AGREEMENT

BETWEEN THE

SCHOOL COMMITTEE
OF THE
TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD

AND THE

MARBLEHEAD EDUCATION ASSOCIATION

Unit — Operational Support Personnel Unit

2025 - 2028
CONTENTS
ARTICLE | — RECOGNITION
ARTICLE 2 - MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY
ARTICLE 3 — HOURS OF WORK
ARTICLE 4 — PROBATIONARY PERIOD - YEARLY APPOINTMENT
ARTICLE 5 — JOB POSTING
ARTICLE 6 — CLASSIFICATION AND PAY PLAN
ARTICLE 7 — MILEAGE
ARTICLE 8A — SICK LEAVE
ARTICLE 8B — COMBINED SICK LEAVE
ARTICLE 9 — HOLIDAYS
ARTICLE 10 - TEMPORARY LEAVES OF ABSENCE
ARTICLE 11 — VACATION
ARTICLE 12 —- PERSONNEL FILES
ARTICLE 13 - TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT
ARTICLE 14-— GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
ARTICLE 15 — STRIKES
ARTICLE 16 —- JURY DUTY
ARTICLE 17 —- MATERNITY/PARENTAL LEAVE/ADOPTION LEAVE for births/adoptions that
occurred prior to November 26, 2024 16
ARTICLE 17 — PARENTAL LEAVE for births/adoptions that occur on or after November 26, 2024 18
ARTICLE 18 — TUITION REIMBURSEMENT 20
ARTICLE 19 — TRAINING 20
ARTICLE 20 — EFFECT OF AGREEMENT 21
ARTICLE 21 — MISCELLANEOUS 21
ARTICLE 22 — 23)
ARTICLE 23 — PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS 23
ARTICLE 24 —- DURATION AND RENEWAL 24
ATTACHMENT A — DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY 26
ATTACHMENT B — JOINT COMMITTEE ON SCHOOL SAFETY 27

N CO CODA HW BP WwW WwW

a a
Dnn FF WwW WN
AGREEMENT made and entered into on this 26" day of November 2024 by and between the Marblehead
School Committee, hereinafter referred to as the “Committee” and the Marblehead Education Association

Operational Support Personnel Unit, hereinafter referred to as the “Union.”

ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION (Effective 12:01 AM on January 1, 2025)

The Committee hereby recognizes the Union for the purposes of collective bargaining (as provided by
Chapter 150E of the General Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts) as the sole and exclusive
bargaining representative for all lunchroom/recess monitors, van monitors, the Village school-year
clerical position, and the Middle School school-year clerical position regularly employed by the School

District.

ARTICLE 2
MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY

The listing of the following specific rights of management in this Article is not intended to be nor shall be
considered restrictive of or as a waiver of any rights of the Committee/Administration not listed herein.
Such managerial responsibilities shall remain exclusively with the Committee/Administration except as

they may be modified by the specific provisions of this Agreement.

Among such management responsibilities as are vested exclusively in the Marblehead School District,
and/or its designees, are the following: the right to hire, promote, transfer, assign and retain employees in
positions with the District, to suspend, demote, discharge or take other disciplinary action against
employees, to evaluate employees, to determine the hourly, daily and weekly schedules of employment,
to relieve employees from duty because of lack of work or other legitimate reasons, to make, administer
and enforce work rules and regulations, to determine the method, means and personnel by which
Marblehead School District’s operations are to be conducted and to take whatever action may be

necessary to carry out the work of the Committee/Administration in situations of emergency.

The Committee/Administration shall have the freedom of action to discharge its responsibility for the
successful operation of operational support personnel work including the scheduling of operations, the
methods, materials and equipment used in carrying out the functions of such work and the extent to which

its own or other facilities, equipment or personnel shall be used.
Any of the rights, powers and authorities which the Committee/Administration had prior to entering this
collective bargaining agreement are retained by the Committee/Administration, except as specifically

modified by this Agreement.

Nothing contained in this Agreement is to be construed as in any way granting or waiving rights or
responsibilities of the Committee/Administration which may not be granted or waived by the
Committee/Administration under the statutes of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts or any applicable

Town Ordinance.

ARTICLE 3
HOURS OF WORK

The Committee/Administration retains the right to establish and change for each employee the number of
hours in the workday, the starting and quitting times, the number of hours in the work week and the

length of the work year.

In the event the hours that an employee actually works are reduced because of a delayed opening or early
release of schools caused by inclement weather or any other unscheduled reason, the employee shall be

compensated for such reduced hours at the employee’s regular hourly rate of pay.

The employee will be paid for full days for Professional Development Day and early release days when

specifically requested to attend, in writing, by the Principal/Superintendent.

Each employee who is directed in writing by the Principal or Superintendent to attend training and/or a
meeting(s) outside of the employee’s regular work day will be paid for the time the employee is in
attendance at such training and meeting(s). The Principal or Superintendent will endeavor to provide the
employee with advance notice of the meeting(s) and the requirement that the employee attend such
meeting(s) and will provide notice to such employee at least one day prior to the meeting. The prior
notice provision in this paragraph shall not apply to emergency meetings which were unplanned or

unscheduled.

Employees who are regularly scheduled to work 30 hours per week or more shall have a duty free lunch

break of twenty (20) minutes or whatever the schedule is at the respective school.

ARTICLE 4
PROBATIONARY PERIOD - YEARLY APPOINTMENT

Each new employee and each employee hired after a break in service shall be considered as a
probationary employee until the employee shall have actually worked seventy-five (75) full days.
Probationary employees may be disciplined, discharged or otherwise terminated in the sole discretion of
the Committee/Administration and such action shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration

provisions of this Agreement.

Employees hired by the Marblehead School District shall be considered hired for one (1) school year term
only. (The school year in which the employee commences work.) Similarly, reappointments shall be for
only one school year. The decision of the Marblehead School District as to whether to reappoint the
employee each school year shall be in the sole discretion of the Marblehead School District and the
District’s decision thereon shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this

Agreement.

By May 15th, a list of expected positions will be posted. Employees who have received a satisfactory
evaluation will be considered for employment in the succeeding year and need not submit an application
unless a different position from that previously occupied is desired. Employees shall be notified, in
writing, by the Marblehead School District by June 15th as to their appointment for the next academic
year. Notification to those appointed shall to the extent known, include the assignment, the location and

the hours.

Disciplinary action taken against any employee upon expiration of the employee’s probationary period
and prior to the expiration of the employee’s yearly appointment (first year and subsequent years) shall be

subject to a just cause standard.
Examples:
1. Discharge or other disciplinary action within the probationary period - not arbitrable.
2. Employee not reappointed - not arbitrable.
3. Employee discharged (disciplinary) subsequent to probationary period - just cause standard.

4. Employee terminated during year (non-disciplinary) - not arbitrable.
ARTICLE 5
JOB POSTING

Whenever a permanent vacancy in positions covered by this Agreement occurs and the District desires to
fill such vacancy, the Marblehead School District shall post a notice of vacancy in each school for a
period of five (5) working days. All employees who are interested in bidding on the vacancy must apply

in writing during this five (5) day period.

The Marblehead School District may fill said vacancy from applicants from within or outside of the
bargaining unit and the District’s decision thereon shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration
provisions of this Agreement. In the event the District fills said job from within the bargaining unit, the
vacancy created in the successful applicant’s position and any further such vacancies that might occur
shall not be subject to posting In other words, paragraph one of this Article shall only apply to the original

vacancy.
The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to reappointments.

ARTICLE 6
CLASSIFICATION AND PAY PLAN

A. Classification:

Group A Group C Group D

Lunchroom/Reces_ | Van Monitor Village/Middle

s Monitor Clerical

Split pay for Lunchroom monitors: higher wage prevails.

B. Hourly Pay Schedules
Step advancement occurs on September | of each academic year. To advance to the next step, the
employee must have actually worked at least one hundred (100) days in the prior academic school

year.
Year 1: Effective September 1, 2025:

GROU_ | POSITIONS Step 3 | Step 4 | Step 5 | Step 6 | Step 7 | Step 8 | New Step 9
P
A Lunchroom/Reces | $16.3 | $16.8 | $17.3 | $17.8 | $18.8 | $19.89 | $20.40
s 2 3 4 5 7
Cc Van Monitor $17.8 | $18.3 | $18.8 | $19.8 | $20.9 | $21.42 | $21.93
5 6 7 9 1
D Village /Middle $19.3 | $19.8 | $20.4 | $20.9 | $21.9 | $22.44 | $22.95
Clerical 8 9 0 il 3
Year 2: Effective September 1, 2026:
GROU_ | POSITIONS Step 3 | Step 4 | Step 5 | Step 6 |.Step7 | Step 8 | Step 9
P
A Lunchroom/Reces | $16.6 | $17.1 | $17.6 | $18.2 | $19.2 | $20.29 | $20.81
s Monitor 5 oh 9 1 5
Cc Van Monitor $18.2 | $18.7 | $19.2 | $20.2 | $21.3 | $21.85 | $22.37
1 3 5 9 3
D Village/Middle $19.7 | $20.2 | $20.8 | $21.3 | $22.3 | $22.89 | $23.41
Clerical 7 9 1 3 7
Year 3: Effective September 1, 2027:
GROU_ | POSITIONS Step 3 | Step 4 | Step 5 | Step 6 | Step 7 | Step 8 | Step 9
P
A Lunchroom/Reces | $17.0 | $17.6 | $18.1 | $18.6 | $19.7. | $20.80 | $21.33
s Monitor 7 0 3 7 3
Cc Van Monitor $18.6 | $19.2 | $19.7 | $20.8 | $21.8 | $22.44 | $22.93
7 0 3 0 6

D Village/Middle $20.2 | $20.8 | $21.3 | $21.8 | $22.9 | $23.46 | $24.00
Clerical 6 0 3 6 3

The parties agree that effective September 1, 2015, the District shall implement mandatory direct deposit
for all bargaining unit employees. The Union acknowledges that the Committee has fulfilled its
bargaining obligations with regard to moving from weekly pay to bi-weekly pay. Effective no earlier than
the first pay period at least 90 calendar days following notice to the Union and employees of
implementation, employees shall receive their pay on a bi-weekly basis with electronic pay advices in lieu

of paper paystubs.

C. New Employee Placement

The Superintendent has the right to place new employees at any step on the salary schedule.

ARTICLE 7
MILEAGE

Employees who are required to use their automobiles in the performance of their duties shall be
reimbursed for all such required travel at the rate of fifty-six (56) cents per mile (commuting mileage not

covered).

ARTICLE 8A
SICK LEAVE

Employees who are regularly scheduled to work fewer than five days per week shall be entitled to accrue
sick leave at the rate of one day per month of active employment but not to exceed ten days in one
academic year, and employees who are regularly scheduled to work five days per week shall be entitled to
accrue 1.5 sick leave days per month of active employment each school year not to exceed fifteen (15)
days in one academic year. Maximum accumulation of sick leave shall be sixty days. Sick leave may only
be used for personal injury or sickness. Employees shall be given a written accounting of their
accumulated sick leave days on or before September 30th of each school year. (intent is to provide if new

payroll system permits).

ARTICLE 8B

COMBINED SICK LEAVE BANK
Effective with the start of the 2025-2026 school year, there shall be established a Sick Leave Bank for
employees covered by the Marblehead Education Association Instructional Assistants Unit, Operational
Support Personnel Unit, Custodians Unit and Permanent Substitutes Unit with the following rules and

regulations.

1) The Sick Leave Bank is a benefit available to support employees in positions represented by the
bargaining units who due to a prolonged serious illness, have exhausted their accumulated sick,

personal, or other leave time and may require additional time to recover from their illness.

a) The purpose of Sick Leave Bank is to support members who are experiencing the devasting
effects of a serious, long-term illness or injury. It is not designed to replace or extend
accrued sick time for individual employees and it should not be used for purposes for which

it was not intended.
2) Initial Establishment of Sick Leave Bank Criteria

a) Beginning on the first day of the 2025-2026 work year, all employees in positions
represented by the MEA in the Instructional Assistants Unit, Operational Support Unit,
Custodians Unit and Permanent Substitute Unit will be given the opportunity to be
members of the Sick Leave Bank by donating one (1) of their sick days to the Sick Leave

Bank each school year.
3) New Hire and/or Member Buy in AFTER initial Establishment of the Sick Leave Bank

a) New hires have thirty (30) calendar days to join the Sick Leave Bank from the date of
employment by donating one (1) of their sick days to the Sick Leave Bank.

b) Current employees who did NOT buy into the Sick Leave Bank when it was established
and employees who did not elect to join the Sick Leave Bank within thirty calendar days
from the date of employment will have thirty (30) calendar days from the start of the new
school year to buy into the Sick Leave Bank by donating two (2) of their sick days to the
Sick Leave Bank.

c) Current employees who buy into the Sick Leave Bank after the initial establishment and
new employees who buy into the Sick Leave Bank after thirty calendar days from the date
of employment will be eligible to draw from the Sick Leave Bank AFTER one (1) school

year of membership in the Sick Leave Bank.
4) Replenishment of the Sick Leave Bank

a)

b)

d)

The maximum number of days in the Sick Leave Bank shall be one hundred (100) and the

minimum number of days shall be thirty (30).

When the number falls below thirty (30) days during a school year, all current members of
the Sick Leave Bank who have completed their probationary period will donate one (1)
day. If the number of days remaining in the Sick Leave Bank falls below thirty (30) days
again in the same school year, members who have the maximum number of sick leave days

will each be asked to contribute one (1) additional day to replenish the Sick Leave Bank.

Members of the Sick Leave Bank who retire from the Marblehead Public Schools may

donate up to ten (10) days to the Sick Leave Bank.

Any Sick Leave Bank days that are not used in one school year shall be carried over to the

next school year subject to section 4. a) above.

5) Opting Out of Membership in the Sick Leave Bank.

a)

Members of the Sick Leave Bank must notify the payroll office in writing at least fifteen
(15) days prior to the start of the new work year if they want to discontinue their
membership in the Sick Leave Bank. Failure to notify in writing will automatically

continue membership in the Sick Leave Bank for the work year.

6) Administration of the Sick Leave Bank

a)

b)

A Sick Leave Bank Committee of four (4) members will be established between the
Marblehead Education Association (“Association”) and the Marblehead Public Schools The
Sick Leave Bank Committee will consist of two (2) members designated by the School
Committee to serve at the School Committee’s discretion and two (2) members designated

by the MEA President/Co-Presidents.

The Sick Leave Bank Committee shall determine the eligibility for the use of the Sick

Leave Bank and the amount of leave to be granted.

Awards of benefits from the Sick Leave Bank require a majority vote of the full Sick Leave

Bank Committee.
d) In the event ofa tie vote, eligibility will be determined by the School Committee where the
Marblehead Education Association will represent the member requesting days from the

Sick Leave Bank in executive session.

e) Any initial grant of sick leave by the Sick Leave Bank Committee shall not exceed thirty
(30) days. If need continues, reapplication to the Sick Leave Bank may be made for further
extensions up to a maximum of thirty (30) days each. Except as provided hereafter in this
paragraph, no more than ninety (90) days may be granted by the Sick Leave Bank
Committee to any individual for a single illness or accident. The Sick Leave Bank
Committee agrees to give due consideration to those situations of unusual circumstances
and for hardship arising from prolonged illness or accident when an employee’s accrued
sick leave and ninety (90) days from the Sick Leave Bank Committee have been exhausted.
Such situations will be brought to attention of the Sick Leave Bank Committee by the
Association only, whereupon the Sick Leave Bank Committee may authorize additional
days from the Sick Leave Bank but not to exceed the balance of days in the Sick Leave

Bank.

f) A member who has received a grant from the Sick Leave Bank, upon their return to regular
duties during the work year, will receive up to five (5) sick leave days from the bank to be
used in the event of illness during the remainder of the school year. Days not used will be

returned to the Sick Leave Bank on the last day of school in the work year.
7) Criteria to Request Days from the Sick Leave Bank.

a) Subject to the provisions of this Article, the Sick Leave Bank Committee shall utilize the
following criteria in administering the Sick Leave Bank and in determining eligibility and

amount of leave:

i. Adequate medical evidence, including diagnosis and prognosis, of serious and/or
prolonged illness or injury and expected date of return. This information shall remain
confidential with the Sick Leave Bank Committee. The Sick Leave Bank Committee
may require a second opinion from an independent medical examiner. The cost of the

independent medical examination will be borne by the employer.

ii. Access to the Sick Leave Bank may be barred because of the history of prior usage or

annual and accumulated sick leave.

11
iii. In order for a member to be eligible for the Sick Leave Bank benefits in a successive
school year, the members must return to work for a period of time at least as long as
the period for which the member received benefits. The Sick Leave Bank Committee

may waive this provision in extraordinary circumstances.
8) Sick Leave Bank Binding Agreement.

a) This Article is not subject to grievance and arbitration. The decision of the Sick Leave
Bank Committee with respect to eligibility and entitlement shall be final and binding and

not subject to appeal except for reconsider to the Committee itself.

ARTICLE 9
HOLIDAYS

Effective with the 2012-2013 work year, employees in their second and subsequent years of employment
shall be entitled to six (6) paid holidays each year. Holidays will be determined on or before June 16th by

an MEA Representative and Superintendent’s designee.

ARTICLE 10
TEMPORARY LEAVES OF ABSENCE

A. FUNERAL LEAVE

1) In the case of death of the employee’s spouse/domestic partner, parent, sibling, child, grandparent,
grandchild, parent-in-law, sibling-in-law, sibling of a parent, and other member of the employee’s
immediate household, the School Administration shall grant the employee a leave of absence without loss
of pay for a period of up to five (5) days (i.e., the employee does not automatically receive five (5) days,
but shall be granted a leave of absence of between one (1) and five (5) days); such day(s) to be taken

within thirty (30) consecutive days from the date of the death.
B. PERSONAL DAYS

Each employee shall be entitled to two personal days per contract year for imperative personal, legal
business, or imperative household or imperative family matters which necessitates the employee’s
presence and cannot be scheduled outside of work hours. The employee will give at least 48 hours notice,
when possible. Personal days cannot be taken on days immediately preceding or following holidays or

vacations. Exceptions can be granted by the Superintendent following written request.
C. OTHER LEAVES

All requests for leave of absence, whether paid or unpaid, shall be made in writing to the Superintendent

and are subject to the Superintendent’s approval. The denial of any such approval shall not be subject to

challenge.

ARTICLE 11
VACATION

(a) Two weeks paid vacation
(b) Applicable to 52 week employees only
(c) After one (1) year continuous service

ARTICLE 12
PERSONNEL FILES

An employee shall have the right to review the contents of the employee’s personnel folder, excluding
confidential recommendations for employment in or advancement in the Marblehead School system. An

employee shall be entitled to have a representative of the Union accompany the employee during such a

review.

An employee shall have the right to submit a written comment on the contents of the employee’s

personnel folder and the comments will be placed in the employee’s folder.

ARTICLE 13
TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT

In the event an employee is temporarily assigned by the employee’s supervisor to perform the duties of a
person in a higher rated job or daily substitute teaching job and so performs such duties, the employee
shall receive compensation for such service at the job rate of the higher rated job or daily substitute
teaching job. Such compensation shall continue so long as the employee continues to perform the duties
of the higher rated job. It is understood that upon return by the employee to the employee’s regular duties,

the increase in compensation provided for in this Article shall terminate.

In the event an employee is temporarily assigned by the employee’s Principal to teach a class/classes as a
substitute teacher, the employee shall be paid the following extra compensation, subject to the terms and

conditions hereinafter provided:
A. In order to be eligible to receive the extra compensation, the employee must be “highly qualified” by

Federal definition or possess a Bachelor’s Degree and must be in group C, D or E.

B. The employee shall receive $10.00 extra for each teaching period so assigned by the Principal, up to

a maximum of $50.00.

ARTICLE 14
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE

Any grievance which may arise between the parties hereto shall be presented in the following manner and

order and within the time limits set forth herein. A grievance is defined as a claim concerning the

meaning or application of any of the provisions of this Agreement.

Step 1.

Step 2.

Step 3.

Step 4.

The employee, or a representative of the Union, shall take up the grievance with the
employee’s immediate supervisor within fourteen (14) calendar days of the date of the
grievance or of the date the employee first acquired knowledge or should have acquired
knowledge of its occurrence. Such grievance shall be submitted in writing. The
employee’s immediate supervisor shall attempt to adjust the matter and shall respond
within fourteen (14) calendar days after the submission of the grievance to the immediate

supervisor in Step 1.

If the grievance has not been settled in Step 1, it shall be taken up with the
Superintendent, or the Superintendent’s designated representative, within seven (7)
calendar days after the supervisor’s response is due or received, whichever is earlier.
Such grievance shall be submitted in writing. The Superintendent/designee shall respond
in writing within ten (10) calendar days after the submission of the grievance to the

Superintendent/designee in Step 2.

(not applicable to grievances involving discipline) If the grievance is still unresolved, the
Union may, within ten (10) calendar days after the reply of the Superintendent is due or
received, whichever is earlier, submit the grievance to the Committee. The Committee
shall meet with the aggrieved employee and representative of the Union within twenty-
one (21) calendar days after receipt of the written grievance in an effort to resolve the

matter.

If the grievance cannot be resolved by and between the Committee and the aggrieved

employee and the Union within twenty-one (21) calendar days after the meeting held in

14
Step 3, then the matter may be submitted to arbitration within fourteen (14) calendar days
thereafter by either the Committee or the Union pursuant to the Labor Arbitration Rules

of the American Arbitration Association.

Failure of the grievant to present a grievance within and to advance it in accordance with any of the time

limits set forth in the grievance procedure shall constitute a resolution of the grievance against the

grievant. The time limits set forth herein may be enlarged by the written consent of the parties hereto. In

the event any of the parties to whom the grievance is presented as hereinbefore provided fails to respond

within the time limits provided, it shall be deemed a denial of the grievance.

The arbitrator’s authority shall be limited to matters involving the interpretation and application of the

provisions of this Agreement. The arbitrator may not modify, amend, delete or add to the terms of this

Agreement. Within the limits of the arbitrator’s authority, the decision of the arbitrator to the extent

provided by law shall be final and binding. The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne equally

by the parties. No employee shall have the right to require arbitration.

Section 1.

Section 2.

Section 3.

ARTICLE 15
STRIKES

There shall be no strikes, walkouts, stoppages or other suspensions of work, boycotts, sit-
downs or slowdowns, picketing or any other interference with the Marblehead School
District’s operations, whether direct or sympathetic. No officer, agent or representative of
the Union shall authorize, approve, ratify or condone any of the activities herein
prohibited and no employee will instigate, promote, sponsor, engage in or condone any of

the activities herein prohibited.

The Union, its officers, agents and representatives, shall make every reasonable effort in
good faith to prevent or terminate any action in violation of Section 1 of this Article,
including, but not limited to, publicly declaring that such action is in violation of the
Agreement and by instructing and directing the employees to cease such improper

conduct and that work be fully resumed.

The Marblehead School District may impose any disciplinary action, including discharge,
upon any or all of the employees involved in a violation of Section 1. Such action by the
District shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement

except as to the questions of whether or not such a violation in fact occurred and whether

15
or not the employees who were disciplined in fact instigated, sponsored, engaged in or

condoned any of the activities therein prohibited.
ARTICLE 16
JURY DUTY

In the event that an employee is called for jury duty, the employee shall be permitted to be absent from
work so to serve and shall be paid for time spent as a juror the difference between the amount the
employee received for jury duty (excluding trial allowances or reimbursement expenses) and the amount
the employee would have received had the employee been employed by the Marblehead School District
during such time, provided the employee was scheduled to work during such time. Jury pay shall be
computed on the basis of the employee’s base hourly rate and shall be limited to the amount of hours
regularly worked per day. To be eligible for the jury duty benefits provided herein, the employee must
give the Marblehead School District reasonable notice that the employee has been summoned for jury
duty, must furnish satisfactory evidence that the employee reported for or performed jury duty during the
time for which the employee claims payment and during the period of jury service the employee must
report for work on days when the employee’s services as a juror are not required. An employee who
volunteers (without being summoned) for jury duty will not receive any of the jury duty benefits listed

above.

ARTICLE 17
This Article 17 is effective for births/adoptions that occurred prior to November 26, 2024

MATERNITY/PARENTAL LEAVE

An employee who has completed three consecutive months of employment shall be granted a maternity

leave of absence, subject to the terms and conditions hereafter provided:

Leaves for the purpose of giving birth, or as otherwise provided by MGL Chapter 149, Section 105D, not
exceeding eight (8) weeks duration shall be granted pursuant to and shall be subject to the terms and

conditions of MGL Chapter 149, Section 105D.

The employee shall give at least two (2) weeks written notice to the Superintendent of the employee’s

anticipated date of departure and intention to return.
Such leave shall be without pay except as provided below:

An employee who has given birth may utilize accumulated sick leave while on maternity leave subject to

the following terms and conditions:

17
The employee continues to work until such time as the employee is physically disabled from
working. The Administration may require the employee to produce medical certification of

disability as aforementioned.
The accumulated sick leave may only be utilized during the period of physical disability.

PAID ADOPTION LEAVE

(Applicable only to employees who have been actively employed for at least three consecutive years

immediately preceding their request for paid adoption leave (hereinafter called “eligible service

employees”).

1,

An eligible service employee shall be entitled to paid adoption leave, subject to the following

terms and conditions:

A. Maximum amount of paid adoption leave: 4 weeks (20 work days). (Lost work time within

four weeks following the eligible service employee receiving actual custody of the child.)

B. Deduction from sick leave: The leave shall be deducted from the eligible service employee’s
sick leave (annual, if sufficient, otherwise accumulated). In the event the eligible service
employee does not have sufficient sick leave to the employee’s credit, the eligible service

employee shall not be eligible for paid adoption leave to the extent of the deficiency.
C. Age of adoptive child: The child must be below six years of age.
D. Purpose of leave: To make arrangements for and to care for the adopted child.

E. If both parents are eligible service employees in the Marblehead school system: In the event
both parents are eligible service employees in the Marblehead School system, either parent
may request the paid adoption leave but the total amount of such paid adoption leave shall not

exceed the maximum of four weeks.
F. Request for Paid Adoption Leave - Time of Leave

1. The leave shall commence, except as hereinafter provided in F3, upon receiving actual

custody of the child, or earlier if necessary to fulfill the requirements of adoption.
2. The eligible service employee shall give, to the extent possible, at least two (2) weeks
written notice to the Superintendent of the employee’s anticipated date of departure and

the employee’s intent to return.

3. In the event defacto custody is taken during any of the school vacations during the school
year (Christmas, February or April vacation), the leave shall commence on the first work
day following such school vacation. This provision shall only be applicable to school
vacations during the school year. If defacto custody were taken in July, the eligible

service employee would not be eligible for paid adoption leave.
G. Family and Medical Leave Act

If and to the extent the eligible service employees are entitled to leave under the Family

and Medical Leave Act, such time shall be charged against the adoption leave.
H. Eligible Service Employees on Maternity Leave

An eligible service employee on maternity leave under Article 17 shall be entitled to paid
parental leave subject to the same terms and conditions applicable to paid adoption leave,

except as follows:

The amount of the paid parental leave shall not exceed the following: Four weeks less

any paid sick leave taken by the eligible service employees on maternity leave.

Example: An eligible service employee on an eight-week unpaid maternity leave is
disabled for five days and utilizes five days of sick leave. The eligible service
employees in such case would then be entitled to 15 days of paid parental
leave and conditions applicable to leave subject to the same terms as paid

adoption leave.

ARTICLE 17
This Article 17 is effective with births/adoptions that occur on or after November 26, 2024.
PARENTAL LEAVE

Massachusetts Parental Leave Act (MPLA), M.G. L. chapter 149, section 105D, provides for up to 8
weeks of leave and the federal Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) provides for up to 12 weeks of leave

for an eligible employee for the birth of the employee’s child and for the adoption of a child as defined by

19
these laws. For employees who are eligible for both MPLA and FMLA leaves, these leaves run
simultaneously with each other and with the paid leaves provided by this Section. If both parents are
employed by the Committee and are eligible for leave benefits provided by the FMLA and/or MPLA for

the birth or adoption of the same child, they shall share such benefits.

The employee shall provide at least two (2) weeks’ written or email notice to the employee’s supervisor
and to the Committee’s Human Resources office of the employee’s anticipated date of departure (or as
much notice as practicable when the delay in providing notice is beyond the employee’s control) and the

employee’s intention to return to work following the leave.
Parental leave is for:
a. the purpose of giving birth and/or bonding with a newborn child; or

b. the placement of a child under the age of 18, or under the age of 23 if the child is

mentally or physically disabled, for adoption with the employee.

Any employee who is eligible for parental leave pursuant to the MPLA and/or the FMLA for the birth or

adoption of the employee’s child shall be entitled to the following paid leave benefits:

1. An employee who is eligible for FMLA may use up to sixty (60) consecutive work days of
leave starting within the first six months following the birth or adoption of the employee’s
child as defined by the FMLA. The employer shall provide paid leave for the first fifteen (15)
days of such leave without deduction from the employee’s accrued leave and the employee
may use the employee’s accumulated paid leave for the balance of the leave not to exceed

forty-five (45) days.

2. Anemployee who is not eligible for FMLA, but who is eligible for MPLA may take up to
eight weeks of leave starting with the birth or adoption of the employee’s child as defined by
the MPLA. The employer shall provide paid leave for the first fifteen (15) days of such leave
without deduction from the employee’s accrued leave and the employee may use the

employee’s accumulated paid leave for the balance of the leave period.

Employees who are eligible for both FMLA and MPLA for the birth/adoption of the employee’s child

shall receive the benefit above that is greater.

20
Upon completion of the parental leave, the employee shall be restored to the same or similar position the
employee held when the parental leave commenced. The Committee shall not be required to restore an
employee on parental leave to the previous or similar position if the employee is subject to layoff,

nonrenewal or reassignment.

ARTICLE 18
TUITION REIMBURSEMENT

A. Procedure. College courses, workshops, continuing education unit programs or In-service
programs may be approved by the Superintendent. Under normal circumstances, request for
approval must be made in writing on a form supplied by the Superintendent in advance of the

start of the course. Courses must be approved by the Superintendent.

B. Reimbursement. The employee shall pay the entire tuition cost of approved courses and will be

reimbursed under the following terms and conditions:

1, The employee must obtain a grade of B- or better and present satisfactory evidence
thereof to the Superintendent. In the event the course is not graded in such a fashion, the
equivalent of B- or better or evidence of receiving the total Continuing Education Units

for the course, shall be satisfactory.

2. A receipted copy of the tuition bill or canceled check must be transmitted to the
Superintendent as evidence of the cost of the course; such transmission shall be made no

later than September | for an approved course taken prior to June 30".

3. Effective July 1, 2025
Within thirty (30) days after receipt of items 1 and 2 of this section (reimbursement), the
Committee shall reimburse the employee for the employee’s out of pocket tuition
payment up to six hundred dollars ($600.00) per fiscal year. The total reimbursement by
the Committee in any fiscal year (July 1— June 30) shall not exceed three thousand

dollars ($3,000.00).

ARTICLE 19
TRAINING

The parties recognize the value of training including but not limited to training on appropriate techniques
to address the social and emotional needs of students. The Superintendent/designee determines the

training for employees each year. While some training may be mandated, the parties also recognize that

21
employees are in a good position to identify areas for training or additional training. Therefore, on or

before March 15 of each fiscal year, employees and/or the Union may submit requests for specific areas

for training to their Principal and Superintendent.

Section 1.

Section 2.

Section 3.

Section 4.

ARTICLE 20
EFFECT OF AGREEMENT

This instrument constitutes the entire agreement of the Committee and the Union arrived at as
a result of collective bargaining negotiations, except such amendments hereto as shall have

been reduced to writing and signed by the parties.

The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement each
had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands with respect to any subject matter
not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that the understanding and
agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth
in this Agreement. Therefore, the Committee and the Union for the life of this Agreement each
voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be
obligated, to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to, or covered
by this Agreement, or with respect to any subject or matter not specifically referred to or
covered by this Agreement, even though such subjects or matters may not have been within
the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time that they negotiated

or signed this Agreement.

The waiver of any breach or condition of this Agreement by either party shall not constitute a
precedent with respect to future enforcement of all the terms and conditions of this

Agreement.

No provision of this Agreement shall be retroactive prior to the effective date of this

Agreement unless otherwise specifically stated herein.

ARTICLE 21
MISCELLANEOUS

|. The Union acknowledges that the Committee has fulfilled its bargaining obligations with regard to

the Drug Policy attached hereto as Exhibit A. No challenge shall be made with regard to the adoption

and implementation of said policy by the Committee/Administration.

22
2. The language of this Agreement shall be interpreted subject to and in conformity with the Education

Reform Act of 1993 and any provision of this Agreement inconsistent with the Education Reform Act

shall be deemed amended so as to be in compliance with such Act.

3. In the event the hours that an employee actually works are reduced because of a delayed opening of

school caused by inclement weather, the employee shall be compensated for such reduced hours at

the employee’s regular hourly rate of pay.

4. Enrollment of Children of Employees Represented by the Association

Children of employees represented by the Union may enroll in the Marblehead Public Schools, on a

tuition free basis, except as hereinafter provided, subject to the following terms and conditions:

A.

The cost of the education shall not exceed 100% of the District’s per pupil cost rate as
determined by the most recent Department of Education report. Costs in excess of said

amount shall be paid by the staff member (or community of the student’s residence.)

The Superintendent shall determine the number of slots available each year and the location
thereof and shall advise the Union on or before March 15th for grades 1-12, and April 15 for
kindergarten of each year. Procedures for applying (forms, deadlines for applications, etc.)
shall be developed by the Superintendent. The Superintendent has discretion in enrolling

children of employees into our school system.

Once a child has enrolled in the Marblehead Public Schools, it is understood that the child
may remain in the system, subject to the terms and conditions provided herein including
space availability, so long as the parent continues to be employed by the Marblehead Public

Schools and the child abides by the rules and regulations of the school system.

Marblehead will not be responsible for providing transportation to students who are enrolled

pursuant to the provisions of this Article.

The Committee reserves the right to terminate this Article upon six (6) months written notice

to the Union.

23
F. In the event enrollment applications for the same slot exceed the approved slots, the

following shall govern:
Seniority

Example: Three employees represented by the MEA (in any unit) with students in the
fourth grade file applications, The Superintendent determines that there are two
available fourth grade slots. The seniority of the employees involved shall govern

which two students shall be admitted. Seniority for this Section is based on date of

hire.

G. In the event any of the provisions of this Article are found invalid by a Court of competent
jurisdiction or by an agency of the Commonwealth, or in the event a Complaint were to issue

after a finding of probable cause by an Agency, this Article shall be of no further force and
effect.

H. In the event Marblehead were to become a “Choice” community, the provisions of this

Agreement, to the extent required by law, shall be subject to the “Choice” laws and rules and
regulations related thereto.
ARTICLE 22
This Article intentionally left blank,

ARTICLE 23
PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS

The School Committee shall provide that whenever duly authorized by an employee on a form or forms
approved by the committee, payroll deductions on behalf of such employee shall be made every payday

and paid in accordance with such form or forms for any or all of the following purposes:
1. Premiums under Town of Marblehead employee’s Group Insurance Program.

2. Dues for the Marblehead Education Association, Massachusetts Teachers Association, National
Education Association from employees authorizing deductions by October 15, with dues deductions

to be paid in equal installments from the first pay check in November and continuing for the balance

of the school year.

24
3. Payroll deductions for the Marblehead Municipal Employees Credit Union. (intent is to implement

provided the payroll program can accommodate deductions).
4. Payroll deductions for the MTA Credit Union.
5. Purchase of United States Savings Bonds.

6. Premiums for any tax- sheltered annuity plan contracted by the employee pursuant to 26 U.S.C.
§403(b).

(Authorization must be given prior to September 30.)

7. Deductions for VOTE provided that at least twenty-five employees in the bargaining unit authorize

and continue to authorize such deductions.
HEALTH INSURANCE, DENTAL INSURANCE, AND RETIREMENT

Information regarding eligibility for and election of group health insurance, dental insurance, and
retirement contributions is available from the Town of Marblehead Human Resources Office. (This

Article is for information purposes only.)

ARTICLE 24
DURATION AND RENEWAL

This agreement shall be in full force and effect from September 1,2025 to August 31, 2028 except as
otherwise provided. Negotiations for a successor Agreement shall begin no later than thirty (30) days, but
in no event earlier than January 15, 2028 after written notice by either party of its desire to commence
negotiations for a successor Agreement. The Committee and the Union, upon receipt of said notice, shall

make mutually satisfactory arrangements to engage in negotiations for a successor Agreement.

25
In witness of the Committee and the Union having duly ratified this agreement, their authorized

representatives hereby affix their hands and seals.

Marblehead School Committee

waar Ye eR (o) Wu} 25”

Chairperson Date

Marblehead Education iation

CH17/AFb
Gs [25

Dat

26
ATTACHMENT A
DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY

File: GBEC

The School District will provide a drug-free workplace and certifies that it will:

Notify all employees in writing that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession or
use of a controlled substance is prohibited in the District’s workplace, and specify the actions that will
be taken against employees for violation of such prohibitions.

Establish a drug-free awareness program to inform employees about the dangers of drug abuse in the
workplace; the District’s policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace; and available drug counseling,
rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; and the penalty that may be imposed on employees
for drug abuse violations occurring in the workplace.

Make it a requirement that each employee whose employment is funded by a federal grant be given a
copy of the statement as required.

Notify the employee in the required statement that as a condition of employment under the grant, the
employee will abide by the terms of the statement, and will notify the District of any criminal drug
statute conviction for a violation occurring in the workplace no later than five days after such
conviction.

Notify the federal agency within ten days after receiving notice from an employee or otherwise
receiving notice of such conviction.

Take one of the following actions within 30 days of receiving notice with respect to any employee
who is so convicted; take appropriate personnel action against such an employee, up to and including
termination; or require such employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or
rehabilitation program approved for such purposes by a federal, state or local health law enforcement,
or other appropriate agency.

Make a good faith effort to continue to maintain a drug-free workplace through implementation of all

the provisions of this policy.

LEGAL REFS.: The Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988
CROSS REFS:.: JICH, Alcohol Use by Students
SOURCE: MASC/Marblehead

Marblehead Public Schools Approved 10/18/2018

27
ATTACHMENT B
JOINT COMMITTEE ON SCHOOL SAFETY

Subject to the limitations in the Joint Committee on School Safety in the MEA Unit A collective
bargaining agreement, the MEA and the Committee agree that employees in positions represented by
this MEA unit are eligible for appointment by the MEA to the Joint Committee on School Safety
established by the MEA and the Committee in the Unit A collective bargaining agreement.

31
