Memorandum of Agreement
Between the Marblehead School Committee And
The Marblehead Education Association Permanent Substitutes Unit
November 26, 2024
The Marblehead School Committee “(Committee”) and the Marblehead Education Association —

Permanent Substitutes’ Unit (“Union”) agree that provisions in their 2021-2024 collective bargaining
agreement shall be amended as follows for a successor collective bargaining agreement:

1. Article 19: Duration (p. 12)
Amend Article 19 as follows:
A. Replace “September 1, 2021 to August 31, 2024” with “September 1, 2024 to August 31,

2025” in the first sentence.

B. Replace “December 15, 2023” with “December 15, 2024” in the second sentence.

2 Appendix A Salary Schedule (p. 13)
A. Delete the obsolete salary schedules

B. Add the following new salary schedule:

Effective Date Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Step 6
The later of the Eliminate | $28,500 | $30,000 | $31,000 | $32,400 | $33,000
following two
dates: (i)
September 1,
2024 or

(ii) the first work
day following
ratification of the
successor
agreement if
ratification
occurs after
September 1,
2024

3. Article 16 Miscellaneous Provisions (p. 10)
Amend Article 16 by adding the following new Section H:

H. Bi-weekly Pay, Direct Deposit, and Electronic Pay Advices
The Association acknowledges that the Committee has fulfilled its bargaining obligations
with regard to moving from weekly pay to bi-weekly pay. Effective no earlier than the
first pay period at least 90 calendar days following notice to the Association and
employees of implementation, employees shall receive their pay on a bi-weekly basis
through direct deposit with electronic pay advices in lieu of paper paystubs.

4. Article 15: Tuition Reimbursement Program (p. 9)
Amend Section B. 2 of Article 17 as follows (new language underlined):
A receipted copy of the tuition bill or canceled check must be submitted to the

Superintendent as evidence of the cost of the course; such submission shall be made no
later than September 1 for an approved course taken prior to June 30%.

5. Article 8 Temporary Leaves of Absence with Pay (p. 6)
Amend Section B as follows (deleted language struck, new language underlined and bold — note
underlined language that is not bold is current underlining):

B. FUNERAL LEAVE
In the case of death of the employee’s husband wife; spouse/domestic partner, parent,
sibling, child, grandparent, grandchild, parent-in-law, sibling-in-law, sister-in-law, sibling
of parent, and other member of the employee’s immediate household, the School
Administration shall grant the employee a leave of absence without loss of pay for a
period of up to five (5) days (i.e., the employee does not automatically receive five (5)
days) but shall be granted a leave of absence of between one (1) and five (5) days): such_
day(s) to be taken within thirty (30) consecutive days from the date of the death.

6. Article 14 Payroll Deductions
A. Amend Section 3 as follows (new language underlined; deleted language struck):
Premiums for any tax- sheltered annuity plan contracted by the employee pursuant to the-
United-States Public Law 487-70 26 U.S.C. § 403(b). (Authorization must be given prior to
September 30.)

B. Add anew section 7 as follows:
7. Deductions for VOTE provided that at least twenty-five employees in the bargaining unit
authorize and continue to authorize such deductions.

7. Housekeeping:
A. Gender Neutral Pronouns. Replace gender pronouns as follows:
Replace “his/her” with “the employee’s”
Replace “him/her” with “the employee”
Replace “he/she” with “the employee”
B. Replace “Association” with “Union” where appropriate.

C. Fix agreed-upon typographical and formatting errors while proofreading successor CBA.

8. Article 17- Paid Adoption Leave (pp. 10-12)
(Note; This Article expired on August 30, 2001; see (last sentence of Article 17 on p. 12)

Effective with births/adoptions that occur on or after the date that this Memorandum of Agreement is
ratified by the Union membership /insert date of ratification], replace Article 17 (Paid Adoption
Leave) in its entirety with the following:

Article 17
PARENTAL LEAVE

Massachusetts Parental Leave Act (MPLA), M.G. L. chapter 149, section 105D, provides for up
to 8 weeks of leave and the federal Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) provides for up to 12
weeks of leave for an eligible employee for the birth of the employee’s child and for the adoption
of a child as defined by these laws. For employees who are eligible for both MPLA and FMLA
leaves, these leaves run simultaneously with each other and with the paid leaves provided by this
Section. If both parents are employed by the Committee and are eligible for leave benefits
provided by the FMLA and/or MPLA for the birth or adoption of the same child, they shall share

such benefits.

The employee shall provide at least two (2) weeks’ written or email notice to the employee’s
supervisor and to the Committee’s Human Resources office of the employee’s anticipated date of
departure (or as much notice as practicable when the delay in providing notice is beyond the
employee’s control) and the employee’s intention to return to work following the leave.

Parental leave is for:
a. the purpose of giving birth and/or bonding with a newborn child; or

b. the placement of a child under the age of 18, or under the age of 23 if the child is
mentally or physically disabled, for adoption with the employee.

Any employee who is eligible for parental leave pursuant to the MPLA and/or the FMLA for the
birth or adoption of the employee’s child shall be entitled to the following paid leave benefits:
1. An employee who is eligible for FMLA may use up to sixty (60) consecutive work

days of leave starting with the first six months following the birth or adoption of the
employee’s child as defined by the FMLA. The employer shall provide paid leave
for the first fifteen (15) days of such leave without deduction from the employee’s
accrued leave and the employee may use the employee’s accumulated paid leave for
the balance of the leave not to exceed forty-five (45) days.

2. An employee who is not eligible for FMLA, but who is eligible for MPLA may take
up to eight weeks of leave starting with the birth or adoption of the employee’s child
as defined by the MPLA. The employer shall provide paid leave for the first fifteen
(15) days of such leave without deduction from the employee’s accrued leave and the
employee may use the employee’s accumulated paid leave for the balance of the

leave period.

Employees who are eligible for both FMLA and MPLA for the birth/adoption of the employee’s
child shall receive the benefit above that is greater.

Upon completion of the parental leave, the employee shall be restored to the same or similar
position the employee held when the parental leave commenced. The Committee shall not be
required to restore an employee on parental leave to the previous or similar position if the
employee is subject to layoff, nonrenewal or reassignment.

9. Article 16- Miscellaneous Provisions, new Section -
Enrollment of Children of Employee’s Represented by the Association

Children of employees represented by the Union may enroll in the Marblehead Public Schools, on

a tuition free basis, except as hereinafter provided, subject to the following terms and conditions:

A. The cost of the education shall not exceed 100% of the District’s per pupil cost rate as
determined by the most recent Department of Education report. Costs in excess of said
amount shall be paid by the staff member (or community of the student’s residence.)

B. The Superintendent shall determine the number of slots available each year and the location
thereof and shall advise the Association on or before March 15th for grades 1-12, and April
15 for kindergarten of each year. Procedures for applying (forms, deadlines for applications,
etc.) shall be developed by the Superintendent. The Superintendent has discretion in enrolling
children of employees into our school system.

C. Once a child has enrolled in the Marblehead Public Schools, it is understood that he/she may
remain in the system, subject to the terms and conditions provided herein including space
availability, so long as the parent continues to be employed by the Marblehead Public
Schools and the child abides by the rules and regulations of the school system.

D. Marblehead will not be responsible for providing transportation to students who are enrolled
pursuant to the provisions of this Article.

E. The Committee reserves the right to terminate this Article upon six (6) months written notice
to the Association.

F. In the event enrollment applications for the same slot exceed the approved slots, the
following shall govern:

Seniority

Example: Three employees represented by the MEA (in any unit) with students in the fourth
grade file applications, The Superintendent determines that there are two available fourth
grade slots. The seniority of the employees involved shall govern which two students
shall be admitted. Seniority for this Section is based on date of hire.

G. In the event any of the provisions of this Article are found invalid by a Court of competent
jurisdiction or by an agency of the Commonwealth, or in the event a Complaint were to issue
after a finding of probable cause by an Agency, this Article shall be of no further force and
effect.

H. In the event Marblehead were to become a “Choice” community, the provisions of this
Agreement, to the extent required by law, shall be subject to the “Choice” laws and rules and

regulations related thereto.

10. New Appendix C:

Joint Committee on School Safety: Subject to the limitations in the Joint Committee on School
Safety in the MEA Unit A collective bargaining agreement, the MEA and the Committee agree
that employees in positions represented by this MEA unit are eligible for appointment by the
MEA to the Joint Committee on School Safety established by the MEA and the Committee in the
Unit A collective bargaining agreement.

11. Article 16 — new section:
HEALTH INSURANCE, DENTAL INSURANCE, AND RETIREMENT: Information regarding

eligibility for and election of group health insurance, dental insurance, and retirement contributions is
available from the Town of Marblehead Human Resources Office. (This Article is for information

purposes only.)

12. Article 19: Funding
Delete Article 19 in its entirety and replace with “This Article intentionally left blank.”

This Memorandum of Agreement is subject to ratification by the MEA Permanent Substitutes’ Unit and
approval of the Marblehead School Committee and ratification by the MEA Permanent Substitutes’ Unit
and approval by the Marblehead School Committee of the Memorandum of Agreement covering the 3-
year period from September 1, 2025—August 31, 2028. Subject to the prior sentence, this Agreement is
agreed to by the bargaining teams for the Permanent Substitutes’ Unit and the School Committee on this
26" day of November 2024.

Bargaining Team for the Bargaining Team for the Permanent Substitutes’

Marblehead School Committee Unit oY

wha vue

