Memorandum of Agreement
Between the Marblehead School Committee And
The Marblehead Education Association Permanent Substitutes Unit
November 26, 2024
The Marblehead School Committee “(Committee”) and the Marblehead Education Association —

Permanent Substitutes’ Unit (“Union”) agree that provisions in their 2021-2024 collective bargaining
agreement shall be amended as follows for a successor collective bargaining agreement:

1. Article 19: Duration (p. 12)
Amend Article 19 as follows:
A. Replace “September 1, 2024 to August 31, 2025” with “September 1, 2025 to August 31,
2028” in the first sentence.

B. Replace “December 15, 2024” with “December 15, 2027” in the second sentence.

2. Appendix A Salary Schedule (p. 13)
A. Add the following new salary schedule:

Effective Date Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Step 6 Step 7 Step 8
September 1, 2025 Eliminate | $30,600 $31,700 $33,500 $33,900 $35,000 Not
Applicabl
e
September 1, 2026 Not $31,200 $32,300 | $34,400 | $35,000 | $36,100 $37,200
Applicabl
e
September 1, 2027 Not $31,980 $33,108 | $35,260 | $35,875 $37,003 $38,130
Applicabl
e

3. Article 7—Sick Leave
A. Relabel the Current Article 7 as “Article 7A — Sick Leave”.
Amend the first paragraph of Article 7A as follows:

Employees who are regularly scheduled to work five days per week shall be entitled to
accrue tes-44) 1.5 sick leave days per month of active employment each school year not
to exceed fifteen (15) days. Employees shall be entitled to accumulate sick leave to a

maximum of thitty-days-39) sixty (60) days. Empleyeessvhe-haveused up their

accumulated sick leave may request-an extension of that leave with pay-te-be approved at
ha diseeatinn of the Sunseaieadone

B. Add the following new Article 7B - Combined Sick Leave Bank:

ARTICLE 7B
COMBINED SICK LEAVE BANK
Effective with the start of the school year following ratification of this Agreement, there shall be
established a Sick Leave Bank for employees covered by the Marblehead Education Association
Tutors Unit, Paraprofessional Unit, Custodians Unit and Permanent Substitutes Unit with the
following rules and regulations.

1) The Sick Leave Bank is a benefit available to support employees in positions represented by

the bargaining units who due to a prolonged serious illness, have exhausted their accumulated
sick, personal, or other leave time and may require additional time to recover from their
illness.

a) The purpose of Sick Leave Bank is to support members who are experiencing the
devasting effects of a serious, long-term illness or injury. It is not designed to
replace or extend accrued sick time for individual employees and it should not be
used for purposes for which it was not intended.

2) Initial Establishment of Sick Leave Bank Criteria
a) Beginning on the first day of the work year following ratification of this agreement,
all employees in positions represented by the MEA in the Tutor Unit,
Paraprofessional Unit, and Permanent Substitute Unit will be given the opportunity
to be members of the Sick Leave Bank by donating one (1) of their sick days to the
Sick Leave Bank each school year.

3) New Hire and/or Member Buy in AFTER initial Establishment of the Sick Leave Bank

a) New hires have thirty (30) calendar days to join the Sick Leave Bank from the date
of employment by donating one (1) of their sick days to the Sick Leave Bank.

b) Current employees who did NOT buy into the Sick Leave Bank when it was
established and employees who did not elect to join the Sick Leave Bank within
thirty calendar days from the date of employment will have thirty (30) calendar
days from the start of the new school year to buy into the Sick Leave Bank by
donating two (2) of their sick days to the Sick Leave Bank.

c) Current employees who buy into the Sick Leave Bank after the initial
establishment and new employees who buy into the Sick Leave Bank after thirty
calendar days from the date of employment will be eligible to draw from the Sick
Leave Bank AFTER one (1) school year of membership in the Sick Leave Bank.

4) Replenishment of the Sick Leave Bank

a) The maximum number of days in the Sick Leave Bank shall be one hundred (100)
and the minimum number of days shall be thirty (30).

b) When the number falls below thirty (30) days during a school year, all current
members of the Sick Leave Bank who have completed their probationary period
will donate one (1) day. If the number of days remaining in the Sick Leave Bank
falls below thirty (30) days again in the same school year, members who have the
maximum number of sick leave days will each be asked to contribute one qd)
additional day to replenish the Sick Leave Bank.

c) Members of the Sick Leave Bank who retire from the Marblehead Public Schools
may donate up to ten (10) days to the Sick Leave Bank.
d) Any Sick Leave Bank days that are not used in one school year shall be carried

over to the next school year subject to section 4. a) above.

5) Opting Out of Membership in the Sick Leave Bank.

a)

Members of the Sick Leave Bank must notify the payroll office in writing at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the start of the new work year if they want to discontinue
their membership in the Sick Leave Bank. Failure to notify in writing will
automatically continue membership in the Sick Leave Bank for the work year.

6) Administration of the Sick Leave Bank

a)

A Sick Leave Bank Committee of four (4) members will be established between
the Marblehead Education Association (“Association”) and the Marblehead Public
Schools The Sick Leave Bank Committee will consist of two (2) members
designated by the School Committee to serve at the School Committee’s discretion
and two (2) members designated by the MEA President/Co-Presidents.

The Sick Leave Bank Committee shall determine the eligibility for the use of the
Sick Leave Bank and the amount of leave to be granted.

Awards of benefits from the Sick Leave Bank require a majority vote of the full
Sick Leave Bank Committee.

In the event of a tie vote, eligibility will be determined by the School Committee
where the Marblehead Education Association will represent the member requesting
days from the Sick Leave Bank in executive session.

Any initial grant of sick leave by the Sick Leave Bank Committee shall not exceed
thirty (30) days. If need continues, reapplication to the Sick Leave Bank may be
made for further extensions up to a maximum of thirty (30) days each. Except as
provided hereafter in this paragraph, no more than ninety (90) days may be granted
by the Sick Leave Bank Committee to any individual for a single illness or
accident. The Sick Leave Bank Committee agrees to give due consideration to
those situations of unusual circumstances and for hardship arising from prolonged
illness or accident when an employee’s accrued sick leave and ninety (90) days
from the Sick Leave Bank Committee have been exhausted. Such situations will
be brought to attention of the Sick Leave Bank Committee by the Association only,
whereupon the Sick Leave Bank Committee may authorize additional days from
the Sick Leave Bank but not to exceed the balance of days in the Sick Leave Bank.
A member who has received a grant from the Sick Leave Bank, upon their return to
regular duties during the work year, will receive up to five (5) sick leave days from
the bank to be used in the event of illness during the remainder of the school year.
Days not used will be returned to the Sick Leave Bank on the last day of school in
the work year.

7) Criteria to Request Days from the Sick Leave Bank.

a)

Subject to the provisions of this Article, the Sick Leave Bank Committee shall
utilize the following criteria in administering the Sick Leave Bank and in
determining eligibility and amount of leave:
i, Adequate medical evidence, including diagnosis and prognosis, of serious
and/or prolonged illness or injury and expected date of return. This
information shall remain confidential with the Sick Leave Bank Committee.
The Sick Leave Bank Committee may require a second opinion from an
independent medical examiner. The cost of the independent medical
examination will be borne by the employer.

ii. Access to the Sick Leave Bank may be barred because of the history of prior
usage or annual and accumulated sick leave.

iii. In order for a member to be eligible for the Sick Leave Bank benefits in a
successive school year, the members must return to work for a period of time
at least as long as the period for which the member received benefits. The
Sick Leave Bank Committee may waive this provision in extraordinary
circumstances.

8) Sick Leave Bank Binding Agreement.
a) This Article is not subject to grievance and arbitration. The decision of the Sick
Leave Bank Committee with respect to eligibility and entitlement shall be final and
binding and not subject to appeal except for reconsider to the Committee itself.

4. Article 15: Tuition Reimbursement (p. 9)
Effective July 1, 2025, replace Section B.3 with the following:

Within thirty (30) days after receipt of items 1 and 2 of this section (reimbursement), the Committee

shall reimburse the permanent substitute for the permanent substitute’s out of pocket tuition payment
up to six hundred dollars ($600.00) per fiscal year. The total reimbursement by the Committee in any
fiscal year (July 1— June 30) shall not exceed six thousand dollars ($6,000).

5. Article 11
A. Relabel Article 11 as “Article 11A”

B. Add anew Article 11B as follows:

Effective September 1, 2025, amend Article 4 as follows (new language underlined, deleted
language struck):

PROBATIONARY PERIOD — YEARLY APPOINTMENT
LAYOFF, REDUCTION IN FORCE AND RECALL

Each new employee and each employee hired after a break in service shall be considered as a
probationary employee until the employee shall have actually worked three full school years.
Probationary employees may be disciplined, discharged or otherwise terminated in the sole
discretion of the Superintendent/designee and such action shall not be subject to the grievance
and arbitration provisions of this Agreement.

Probationary employees hired by the Marblehead School District shall be considered hired for
one (1) school year term only. (The school year in which the employee commences work.)
Similarly, reappointments shall be for only one (1) school year for the following two (2)
consecutive full school years. The decision of the Superintendent/designee as to whether to
reappoint the probationary employee each of the first three full school years shall be in the sole
discretion of the Superintendent/designee, and the Superintendent’s/designee’s decision thereon
shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement.

Probationary employees who have received a satisfactory evaluation will be considered for
employment in the succeeding year and need not submit an application unless a different position
from that previously occupied is desired. Probationary employees shall be notified, in writing, by
the Marblehead School district by June 15th as to their appointment for the next academic year. If
there is to be a reduction in the number of employees, the School District will attempt to give
notice by June 15th. Probationary employees who are not notified by the Marblehead School
District by the last day of school as to whether they have been reappointed are deemed not
reappointed.

Employees who have not worked 75 work days may be dismissed without prior notice. The
Superintendent/designee shall provide written (or email) notice of the Superintendent’s/designee’s
intent to dismiss employees who have worked more than 75 work days. Such notice shall include
the reason(s) for the dismissal and provide the employee with an opportunity to meet with the
Superintendent/designee within ten calendar days. Employees who have not completed their
probationary period are employees at will. Disciplinary action taken against any employee after
expiration of the employee’s probationary period shall be subject to a just cause standard.

Examples:
1. Discharge or other disciplinary action within the probationary period-not arbitral
2. Probationary employee not reappointed - not arbitral
3. Employee discharged (disciplinary) subsequent to probationary period- just cause
standard.
4. Employee terminated during year (non-disciplinary) not arbitral.

The Superintendent/designee, in the event of a contemplated reduction in force, will meet with
the Association to discuss the contemplated reduction.

Probationary employees will be laid off prior to employees who have completed their
probationary period provided that the employee who has completed the probationary period has
the experience, skill, and training to perform the work being performed by the probationary
employee.

In making a decision regarding the layoff or reduction in force of an employee(s) who has/have
completed the probationary period, the Superintendent/designee shall consider the following
criteria:

1. Need;
Quality and quantity of performance as determined by the most recent evaluation;
Educational background including degrees, and licenses;
Experience with subject matter;
Experience with grade level(s);
Experience with particular student(s);
Training;
Skills including but not limited to language skills, ASL, RBT certification, Wilson or OG
certification;
9. DESE license;
10. Best interest of students.

SNIAMNPwWHD
The Superintendent/designee may assign whatever weight the Superintendent/designee desires to
the aforementioned criteria provided the Superintendent’s/designee’s decision is based on said
criteria and provided that the Superintendent/designee considers the best interests of students in
the school or District. The Superintendent/designee need not review all of the above criteria.
When the Superintendent/designee determines that the qualifications of employees, based on
some or all of the criteria above, are no different, seniority in the unit shall be the determining
factor.

Employees who have been laid off shall remain on a recall list for an 18-month period from the
date of the layoff notice. The Superintendent/designee may use the criteria listed above in
determining the order of recall; however, if the Superintendent/designee determines that the
qualifications of employees based on criteria above are no different, the Superintendent may use
seniority to break the tie.

The laid off employee shall provide the District’s Human Resources office with a current email
address for the recall period. The Superintendent/designee shall notify an employee by email of a
recall, and the employee shall have five calendar days to accept a recall notice by email. Failure
to respond to a recall notice within five calendar days shall be deemed a rejection of the offer and
the employee shall be removed from the recall list.

Recall notices will be sent by email to the laid off employee’s last personal email address in the
District’s records with a copy of such notice being emailed to the Association.

This Memorandum of Agreement is subject to ratification by the MEA Permanent Substitutes’ Unit and
approval of the Marblehead School Committee and ratification by the MEA Permanent Substitutes’ Unit
and approval by the Marblehead School Committee of the parties’ Memorandum of Agreement covering
the 1-year period from September |, 2024—August 31, 2025. Subject to the prior sentence, this Agreement
is agreed to by the bargaining teams for the Permanent Substitutes’ Unit and the School Committee on
this 26" day of November 2024.

Bargaining Team for the Bargaining Team for the Permanent Substitutes’
Marblehead School Committee Unit

boosthlay

