Mbawwtlveb
VAT CLERK

Town Clerk Use Only

WA JAN ~2 PH As bby

MEETING NOTICE

POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL30A § 20 Act relative to extending certaln COVID-19 mensures
ndopted during tho state of emergency

Marblehead School Committee

Name of Board or Commiftes

Address: Marblehead High School — Library at 2 Humphry St. Marblehead MA 01948
OR

Zoom Conference join via the web link or Dial in
https://marblcheadschools-org.zoom.us/j/9997549363 19,
Mecting ID: 999 7549 3631

Password: 873255

Dial in Phone #1 646 931 3860

Thursday January 4th 7 2024 7:00 pm
Day of Week Month Date Year Time

Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticlpates will be discussed)

I. Initial Business
a, Call to Order
b. Commendations
¢, Public Comment

MN. District Updates — Dr Theresa McGuinness
a, School Calondar 2024-2025 draft
b, FY25 budget status update

TH, Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills (vote)

b. Approval of Minutes (vote)
IV, School Committee Communication aud Discussion Items

a, Approval of Pan Mass Marblehead Club orcation (vote)

b, Superintondent — School Committee Communications

c Interim Superintendent Goals discussion (vote?)

a. Superintendent Search Process Discussion

ec, Engagoment of Legal Council (vote)

f, Subcommittee and Lisison Updates and discussion

V. Closing Business
8. Now Business- School Committce Announcements and Requests
b. Correspondence
ce. Adjournment

Hybrid Meeting Notice: Membors of the public are welcome to attend this in-person at 2 Humphrey St, Marblehead MA
61945 or by the remote zoom connection provided. Please note that the in-person meeting will.not be suspended or
torminated if technological problems interrupt the remote connection,

THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Chairperson: — Sarah Fox
Posted by: Sarah Fox
Date: 1/2/2024

Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road:
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-314

Dr. Theresa B. McGuinness Ms, Julia Ferreira Ms. Michelle Cresta Dr, Paula Donnelly
Interim Superintendent of Schools Assisiant Superintendent of Assistant Superintendent of — Director of Student Services
Teaching & Learning Finance & Operations
Memorandum

To: Marblehead School Committee

From: Theresa B. McGuinness, Ed.D, Interim Superintendent
RE: interim Superintendent’s Goals

Date: January 4, 2024

tam pleased to submit these goals, which attend to the needs of Marblehead Public Schools
and align with the Effective Superintendent Leadership Rubric.

Goal 1: (District Improvement) Maintaining Momentum During the Transition

Keep the district moving forward working with principals and district leaders to ensure
that meaningful progress is made on critical district and school goals.

Key Actions
1. Engage in a collective bargaining process toward a new agreement for all units.

2. Work collaboratively with School Committee Members and the Assistant
Superintendent of Finance and Operations to develop the FY2025 budget.

3. Create a high functioning administrative team

Fair and Effective Administrator Evaluation - Evaluate progress toward district and school
improvement goals via goal-setting and evaluation of leadership team members.

e Complete with all principals and district administrators Step 1 (Self
Assessment) and Step 2 (Goal Setting and Educator Plan Development) of the
Administrator Evaluation process.

e Complete formative evaluation conferences with each principal and district
leader supervised by the superintendent.

e Conduct at least monthly formal visits to each school. By late spring, conduct
at least two 3-hour visits to each school with the principal to determine
progress towards the administrator’s goal attainment and the implementation
of the School Improvement Plan.

e By June 15th, analyze progress on goals and complete summative evaluation
reports for all supervisees.

Benchmarks

1. By June 30, 2024, execute new collective bargaining agreements with the
Marblehead Education Association and other unions requiring contract renewal
that honors staff, supports student learning, and aligns with the district's strategic
goals.

2. Present the budget to all stakeholders in accordance with the budget calendar.

3. Educator evaluations are completed on time and reported to DESE for
accountability of the district.

Goal 2 (District improvement): Create and implement a District- Wide Communication
Plan

By February 2024, develop and begin implementation of a district-wide communication
plan to enhance transparency, connection, and overall public perception of the
Marblehead Public Schools.

Key Actions

s Update and make improvements to the existing website for better access, content
curation, and navigation.
Hold Superintendent’s Coffee Hours once a month, January through June 2024.
Send a newsletter to the school community at least two times/month.
Provide updates to the school community on pertinent issues that impact families in
the District in a timely fashion.

e Leveraging district and school-based administrators expertise and experience, by
February 2024, complete a MPS Communications Plan.

e in June 2024, evaluate and modify the Plan, asneeded.

Benchmarks

4, The Communications Plan is complete and shared with stakeholders by February 2024.

2. Website provides a more user-friendly interface providing current content for end
users at both the school- and district-levels, by June 2024.

3. An archive of Superintendent newsletters to the school community.

4. Survey of feedback and input on MPS communication effectiveness by June 15, 2024.

Goal 3: (Professional Practice) New Superintendent Induction Program (NSIP)

Develop skills in strategy development, data analysis, and instructional leadership by
completing the first year of the New Superintendent Induction Program and earning at
least Proficient ratings on each major assignment.

Key Actions
» Attend all NSIP content sessions (barring district emergencies) and complete all NSIP
assignments,

Regularly consult and reflect with my NSIP coach for at least two sessions/month.
Create an entry plan and share results by March 2024.

Benchmarks

1. Calendar documents active participation in NSIP sessions and contact with NSIP coach

2. NSIP leaders/coach can confirm that the superintendent actively engaged in and
completed the first year of the program with proficiency.

3, Entry Plan created and shared with the school community by March 2024.
Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-314

Dr. Theresa B. McGuinness Ms. Julia Ferreira Ms. Michelle Cresta Dr. Paula Donnelly
Interim Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of Assistant Superintendent of — Director of Student Services
Teaching & Learning Finance & Operations
Memorandum

To: Marblehead School Committee

From: Theresa B. McGuinness, Ed.D, Interim Superintendent
RE: Superintendent's Updates

Date: January 4, 2024

interim Superintendent’s Bulletin 3 to Staff and Families - January 1, 2024

o Here is a copy of the |nterim Superintendent's Bulletin 3 - January 1, 2024.

Extracted Highlights:

Marblehead District Offices - New Temporary Spaces
Mary Alley Building on Widger Road

There was a water break incident at the Mary Alley building on Friday, December 22nd. The water
found its way to the lower level, causing damage to the electrical fixtures, ceiling tiles, carpet, and
office equipment in several MPS District offices. Thus, the District offices are temporarily moving out
of Widger Road until just before February break on February 16, 2024. Fire Chief, Jason Gilliland, the
MPS Facilities Team, and the Town Facilities worked diligently to organize clean up. Most to Brown
School.

Changes in District Student Services Department

District Student Services Leadership

In response to the recent inquiries we have received regarding the Marblehead Public Schools’ Student
Services Department, we want to update the Marblehead Public School community to let you know
that the District, Dr. Paula Donnelly, and Ms. Emily Dean have mutually agreed to end their
employment relationship. As such, the District will begin a search process for an Interim Director of
Student Services, immediately. In order to ensure that our students receive their necessary support
and services, both Dr. Donnelly and Ms. Dean have agreed to assist the Superintendent in any
necessary support during the transition. Additionally, the Superintendent fs organizing a Student
Services Steering Committee that will focus on this transition. Principals, working closely with their
Team Chairs, will continue as the primary contact for their student, staff, and parent community

inquiries or needs. We appreciate Dr. Donnelly’s and Ms. Dean's collective service and the District
wishes them well as they pursue other opportunities in the field of education.

Student Services Steering Committee & Welcorning Two New BCBAs

Student Services Steering Committee, PreK ~ 12 Transition Focus

The purpose of the Student Services Steering Committee is to leverage the expertise of faculty,
administration, and staff for planning purposes to ensure a smooth transition process to a new Interim
Director of Student Services. The Steering Committee will meet weekly starting on January 9th and is
co-chaired by the Superintendent and Assistant Superintendent of Teaching & Learning. Additionally,
to ensure effective processes and timely communication across the district, we've added a weekly
Student Services Leadership Meeting where principals and district administrators will support the
Steering Committee's work and plan accordingly.

In general, this Steering Committee will: (1) assess the state of the department mid-year and
prioritize needs, (2) plan, then implement solutions, (3) create messaging, communications, updates
to staff and the parent community (SEPAC), (4) gather input and feedback from educators, and (5)
make recommendations for the 2024-2025 SY.

Board Certified Behavior Analysts (BCBAs)

We welcome two new districtwide Board Certified Behavior Analysts (BCBAs) who will join MPS this
January: Catherine Woods who will join the Brown School team and Emily Boutin who wilt join the
Glover School team. BCBA Kristen Phelps will continue to work districtwide, primarily supporting
students at the Village School and at MVMS.

Glover School Update ~ Interim Principal Appointment

We are very pleased to announce that Mr. Dan Richards will become the Interim Principal at Glover
School starting Thursday, January 4th for the duration of Principal Doran’s leave, which is undefined
at this time. We will post immediately for an Interim Assistant Principal at MHS.

| want to personally thank both Assistant Superintendent, Julia Ferreira and MVMS Principal, Matt
Fox for their unwavering support of both Vets and Glover School, respectively, during these last few
weeks, Their willingness, expertise, and supportive styles ensured that both schools continued to
flourish. It takes a village —particularly in times like these— to move through challenges with
dedication and grace. Julia and Matt exemplified both.

Chris Herren for Two Events

A former NBA Celtics player from Fall River, MA, Chris had a successful professional basketball
career when he lost it all to the disease of addiction. Chris has now been sober for 15 years and
has since shared his journey with others with the goal of having a positive impact on them. Chris
will also speak to the entire student body at MHS earlier in the day on January 10, 2024, These
events are sponsored by the Marblehead Public Schools PCO’s, the Female Humane Society, and
The Fader Family.

There is a student assembly from 12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. in the field house, and an evening event in
the auditorium 6:30 p.m. - 8:00 p.m.

Same Notable Dates

January 10 - Chris Herren for Two Events @MHS
January 15 - No School, M.L. King, Jr Day
January 21 - MPS SC Meeting @7:00 p.m.
February 1 - MPS SC Meeting @7:00 p.m.
February 15 - MPS SC Meeting @7:00 p.m.
February 19 - No School, Presidents’ Day
February 20 - 23 - No School, February Recess
February 26 - Students Return from Recess

Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-314

M

Dr, Theresa B. McGuinness Ms. Julia Ferreira Ms. Michelle Cresta Dr, Paula Donnelly
Interim Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of Assistant Superintendent of — Director of Student Services
Teaching & Learning Finance & Operations

Submitted electronically via email.
Memorandum

To: Marblehead School Committee

From: Theresa B. McGuinness, Ed.D, Interim Superintendent

RE: Decision Not to Seek the Permanent Superintendent Position
Date: January 2, 2024

Dear School Committee:

After considerable reflection, I’ve decided not to seek the permanent Superintendent
position in Marblehead Public Schools and am moving forward in a different direction to
pursue alternative opportunities.

As | have since November 6, 2023, | will work diligently and strategically alongside our
leadership team and the School Committee to perform the roles and responsibilities of the
Interim Superintendency in the best interest of the students and staff members of MPS. | am
prepared to plan for and work through a successful transition to the next Superintendent of
Schools through June 30, 2024.

Respectfully,

Theresa B. McGuinness, Ed.D
Interim Superintendent of Schools

Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Tinsday November 2, 2023

7:00PM
Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner, Alison Taylor. Meaghan Taylor
Also Presont: Michelle Cresta-Acting Superintendent, Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent

1. Initial Business

a. Call to Order

Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00PM

b, Commendations

4 Sarah Fox commended Jamie Yomtov, Nurse Beth Stanojev, and Carla Rese
© Accidents occurred almost simultaneously in different areas of town
o. All three 0 of them stopped and assisted until EMS could arrive

= Sarah Fox vemend the Village School on publishing (hgg

«Sarah Fox §

* Sarah Fox uring the past
few mont! g \

«Meaghan ‘g jor / itd e for tlementary School
for being 5.3 .

= Meaghan Y jor hi that have reached
out to the fy gee :

a Brian Ota would like t to commend to the Brown. School, Mary Maxficld, the rest of the staff'and
students on their first practice evacuation drill

c. Public Comment

«Jonathan Heller 26 Ralph Rd-MEA Co-President and Sally Shevory 80 Garfield StMEA Co-
Prosident

© Jonathan started with this statement “As a Union we stand together to let you know that
the MEA will not tolerate harassment or bullying of any kind including such behavior
directed at our members”

o Johnathan went on to state that for the entire staff, from Para’s to Tutors, to Custodians
that “the morale is at an all-time low”

© Jonathan references the posts made on social media and the articles in the papers that is
causing a “toxic enviconmont that impacts our educators and our ability to work”

© He states that “these actions are not warranted” and is teading to a mistrust and
disconnect between the school leadership and our educators as well as the parents and
community as a whole

2 Jonathan goes on to outline the number of FOIA requests received from July {, 2022-
June 30, 2023 (28 total) and since July 1, 2023 the district has received 45 requests or
amended requests which he sites is a 65% increase in 4 months

© He calls on the community to “end the cycle of mistrust and suspicion” that has brought

us to the point of receiving “sweeping FOIA requests” for additional information

surrounding incidents occurring with our educators |

Sally Shevory begins speaking about her time with Marblehead Public Schools

Sally states thal the community is onc that “first and foremost” caves about education

She states that over the last few years “the world around us has been shaken”

Sally continues that along the way somehow we “forgot where our priorities lie” stating

the “climate in our schools is unsettling to say the feast. Over the last few years the

community has lost (rust in teachers”

© She references the FOIA that was just received that is requesting fo search “All staff
emails to see if we hare hiding anything, specifically complaints”

© Sally states that this FOIA is a “waste of time and resources that could be far better spent
in the schools”

© Sally goes on to state that wo will be welcoming Theresa McGuinnes back to the district
and is hopeful that she will be able to help us to “abandon all personal vendettas” and that
the community “return to the commitment of providing our students with the best
edygatiapanascibie”

ooo 0

1 Committee

ities to find out if

¢ flag policies and
s wait fo see On

© She questions how all students ave going to feel supported if we have a policy in place
that does not allow for different flags to be displayed visually in our schools
Chris Brule 212 West Shore Drive
© Chris begins by asking about safely as it relates to “unauthorized individuals” entering
the schools to remove the flags from the walls
Four High Schoo! Students (did not get names from recording)
© The students spoke about the letter that they wrote lo the School Committee last week
expressing that they were disappointed that the Policy Committee that was meeting on
Friday was during School hours
© They stated that they were disappointed “because this issues is directly relevant to us as
students”
© They would like to discuss with the School Committee outside of school hours the impact
that a Flag policy might have on current students
© One of the students went on to state “we believe that removal of existing flags can make
many students fect (hey aren’ valued at Marblehead High School”
Sarah Fox points out that there has been a lot of public comment regarding the possible flag
policy and the misinformation that was released info the community surcounding the intent
behind the policy
° The policy is not intended to “take things down”

© Sarah notes that unless a Policy is in place “you have to say yes to everything”
a Nikia Bell-Green Street
© What bothers Nikia the most is that her child is coming to Marblehead Public Schools
fron a different town
0 She states that they already feel like “they’re not welcome in our town"
© She feels as though it is a “slap in the face” that the parent who took down the flag has
hot been banned from entering the school
» Cindy Tower Loewen-Did not state address
© Cindy stated by thanking Nika for her statement
0 She states that she understands that there is no back and forth but in this particular
instance “there should have been a response back”
0 She points out that a parent was able to go into the building and take the flag down which
is “not acceptable”
o Cindy points ont that there needs to be student and community involvement in the
creation of this policy
© Cindy commends the administrators and educators who have tried to make a difference in
this community
« Tena Cersei-Dorchester MA
© Tena has concerns about the removal of the flag like everyone efse
verses parent needs to pay for that, the children

» The class of 2028 Open House will be held on 11/8

» The Tri M honor society held a Halloween Breakfast on Tuesday 10/31

# The French Honor Society is selling Croissants and Crepes this month at hinch for National
French Week

"The Senior class of 2024 is selling bagels al lunch

a The National Honor Society is restuning its tutoring program at MHS

* The Annual Rock the nights gala is taking place at Hooper Mansion tonight and the funds taised
will go towards concert and theater support

4 The end of the current quarter will end on 11/9

» All Falf sports teams have moved on to their Championship Seasons at this point

« Unified Basketball (cam is celebrating Senior Night tonight, 11/02

» Powder Puff is under way and the Seniors are selling merchandise

« The Senior Show hosts were determined last week

* Halloween had a good showing this ycar wilh each grade taking ona different themed costume

Il, District Updates - Michelle Cresta

b. Financial Update FY23 and FY24

a Michelle Cresta starts by thanking Chief Dennis King for applying for “Safe Routes to School
Signs and Lines Grant” that wo havo been awarded
= FY23 is closed on the Schools end and the town is still working on their end
Oo Marbichead did end up with some additional funds that we used towards “onetime costs’
© Some of these onetime costs include security system upgrades, security badge updates as
well as firniture replacement
© We were also able to pay some out of district (uilions
© Final financial reports, including all grants and revolving funds, bave been provided to
the School Commiltee
® For FY24 so far we have spent 11.2% of our operating budget, this time last year we had spent
(0.9%
© Still have staffing vacancies bul they are nol as significant as last year at this Hime
Oo We do still swuggle filling some staffing positions al this time
« These positions include Substitute Teachers, Substitute Custodians as well as
Substitute Lunch Workers
Oo We do continue to watch our out of district transportation costs and we seem to be on
track with what we have budgeted for this year at this time
® Sarah brings up the ability to ulilize a cleaning service to fill some of the holes to ensure that our
schools are being laken care of
© Migbeteeetnss.

aeiats out that they discontinued using a cleanin ice {o fill the holes in
7 Nay statlae 80 the cost
| Agenda Itet 2
F | (vole)
I ithedule & pills total 4,

a. Schedule of Billy,
Motion to approve |

»

Til, Consent Action

Moved by Ms. Shaeffiner, Seconded by Ms, Alison Taylor

Mr. Ota, Ms. Meaghan Taylor, Ms, Alison Taylor, Ms, Shaeffiner and Ms, Fox-Alt Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

b. Approval af Minutes (vote)

Motion to approve the minutes from 08/11/23 as presented

Moved by Ms, Shaeffner, Seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor

Mr. Ole, Ms, Meaghan Taylor, Ms, Alison Taylor, Ms. Shaeffner and Ms, Fax-All Yes
Aroll cnil vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

IV. School Cammittee Communication and Discussion Items

a, Approval of Basketball overnight fieldtrip (vote)

= Mr. Giardi explains that the trip this year will be fo Springfield and they will be visiting the
Basketball Hall of Fame as well as participating ina Boy Girl Basketball game

Motion to approve the Basketball overnight field trip for the night of Saturday February 10, 2024
returning on Sunday February 11, 2024

The motion is moved by Ms, Shacffner and seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor
A roll calf vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

Ms. Fox, Ms, Taylor, Ms Taylor, Ms, Ota and Ms, Shaeffner-All Yes
b. Veteran’s Middle School Basketball Hoop Donation (vote)

» Mr. Fox explains that we received a very generous offer from the Friends of Marblehead
Basketball to purchase two now Basketball hoops for the MVMS Gym

Motion fo approve the Donation from the Friends of Marblehead Baskethallfor the donation of Basketball
hoops to the Veterans School Gymnasiun

Moved by Ms, Sha

by Ms. Alison Taylor

_ on F ses 5-0

Aamily Request

« We received some communication from Marblehead Youth Football requesting fo be able to
fundraise lo replace the Scoreboard over at Hopkins Field

Motion to approve fundraising efforts for a new scoreboard in like kind to include same size to be labeled
Dr: Hopkins field in accordance with policy KCD

Moved by Ms, Shaeffner, Seconded by Ms, Alison Taylor
Opened up for Discussion

® Meaghan Taylor requests clarification on the motion as well as requests Sarah Fox to outline what
a KCD policy is

® Sarah Fox explains that KCD is the district’s policy on “public gifts” and reads the policy

® Matt Martin requests clarification on the portion of the policy in which it states that the donor is
nol able to “advertise” themselves on the new scoreboard (“no extensive advertising of
promotions”)

* The School Committee has requested a “mock up” of the sign for approval to ensure it does not
go against the “extensive advertising policy”

Motion to table the motion until a “mock up” of the scoreboard has been received and reviewed

Seconded by Jennifer Shaeffier

Mr, Ola, Ms. Meaghan Taylot, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms, Shaeffner and Ms, Fox-All Yes

Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

d. Vaping Preventions and Response

Jennifer Shaeffrer begins by stating that she has heard from many people in town by email,
phone, and on social media for years that students are unwilling fo go into use the bathrooms
because of the “extensive vaping” primarily at the High School
Jennifer asks what we ave doing to make sute that students feel they an use the restroom during
the school day without being faced with this
Michelle Carlson begins to explain what the High School has in place to mitigate vaping in
school
© There ave Vape Detectors in the “gang” bathrooms or the ones with more than one stall
which when vape smoke is detected il sends a text mossage and an email of the location
of the detector that has gone off so they are able to go investigate
© The administrators ave constantly monitoring the bathrooms
© When a student is caught vaping there is a diversion program to educate the students on
why not to do it
o Gi, =
oun

it usually begins
I how they are
because once kids

student with a
a S ee gon in order to
reduce rec! a Tiler 2 intervention intended for
adolescence who have begun to show carly signs of problematic substance use”
© Michelle Carlson points out that the parents are notified no matter what and if the student
does refuse the Diversion program that they do move on to the next step which is
typically a suspension or Saturday detention
© Sarah Fox asks if there is any data on the students after the program has been completed
on how many of these students are still “free from these products”
® Gina indicates that this MGH program is part of a larger grant that also focuses
on the results after the program

fe]

Motion to approve

Moved by Ms, Shaeffher, Seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor

Mt, Ola, Ms. Meaghan Taylor, Ms, Alison Taylor, Ms, Shaeffier and Ms, Fox-All Yes

Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

d. Approval of School Improvement Plans (Veteran’s Middle School & Marblehead High School) (vote)

» Matt Fox begins with the Improvement Plans for the Veteran’s Middle School
© Matt Fox outlines the MVMS District Strategic Objectives, Initiatives, and School Based
Goals
© Matt goes on the outline the Improvement Strategies which includes Action Steps for
these Improvement Strategies
© The PDF of all Strategic Objectives, Initiatives and School Based Goals as well as the
Lnprovement Strategies is available on Marbicheadschools.org under the Agenda and
Materials
4 Michelle Carlson Begins with the lmprovement Plans for the Marblehead High School
© Michelle Carlson outlines the MHS District Strategic Objectives, Initiatives, and School
Based Goals
© Michelle goes on to outlines the Improvement Strategies which includes Action Steps for
these Improvement Strategies
© The PDF of all Strategic Objectives, Initiatives and School Based Goals as weil as the
Impravement Strategies is available on Marbleheadschoois.org under the Agenda and
Materials

Motion to approve the Veterans Middles School and Marblehead High School School Improvement Plans
as presented

Moved by Ms. She <A by Ms. Alison Taylor

Mr. Ota, Ms, Meag
A roll call vote wal

f. Subcommittes a.

4 Jennifer Shaelfier-Policy Subcommittee
© Alison Taylor and Jennifer Shaeffixer met last week
- 0 Talked about studont electronic usage-specifically email usage
o They discussed Flags, Banners and Signs to come up with a policy
= They will bring a draft to the School Committee in the coming weeks
» Jennifer discussed that student input in this policy is important
®  Savah Fox-Finance Subcommittee
© In the last finance meeting the Finance Subcommittee was able to dive into the data that
Michelle had provided
oO For FY23 one of the biggest overages was Out of District Transportation
© The committee is looking at the trends and data to inform areas that need to be focused
on as we move forward
«Brian Ota-Safety Advisory Subcommiitico
° Met last week
© Everyone is working hard to get the ALICE protocols in place

V, Closing Business

a, New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests

» Brian brought up that in the past the School Committee had rotated some of the meetings to the
different schools, He would like to suggest doing that again,
« Meaghan Taylor would like to get two items on the next agenda
oO Meaghan would fike to make sure that there are some priorities/goals set for Mr.
McGuinness now that she is coming on board
© Meaghan would also like to add (o next meoting’s agenda a discussion about the
Permanent Superintendent search

b, Correspondence

None

Meeting is adjourned at 9:21PM by School Committee Chair Ms, Fox
Respectfully Submitted,

Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Draft

Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-3140

Dr. Theresa B. McGuinness Ms, Julia Ferreira Ms. Michelle Cresta
Interim Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of _ Assistant Superintendent of Director of Student Services
Teaching & Learning Finance & Operations
MEMORANDUM
TO: Marblehead School Committee
FROM: Michelle Cresta
DATE: January 3, 2024
RE: Schedule of Bills for Approval

Included in this packet are the following Schedules of Bills for your consideration. The schedules and
invoices have been uploaded to the shared drive.

Schedule Amount
24459 $ 11,237.60
24468 $ 20,577.34
24476 $ 75,081.20
24477 $ 170,500.09
24478 $ 49,081.45
24479 $ 10,784.30
24480 $ 215,406.84
24481 $ 6,716.00
24504 $ 13,637.94
24508 $ 9,340.79
24509 $ 58,601.46
24510 $ 222,486.61
24511 $ 67,585.91
24515 $ 30,716.73
24527 $ 2,699.96
24535 $ 23,167.07
24539 $ 5,161.57
24546 $ 3,903.06

TOTAL |$ 996,685.92

Suggested Motion:
Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $996,685.92.

