DATE POSTED:
?

ited oh ty py

ARS. {\ 1 1K, Use Only
OWN eats
IWAIHOY 13. PM 2: 9g

MEETING NOTICE

POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 30A § 20 Act relative to extending certain COVID-19 measures
adopted during the state of emergency

Marblehead School Committee

Name of Board or Committee

Address: Marblehead High School — Library at 2 Humphry St. Marbichead MA 01945

OR

Zoom Conference join via the web link or Dial in

https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/j/9997549363 | 2pwd=Y¥ OpHWVM2YitBZXNOU2ZyTkLOMzh4dz09
Meeting ID: 999 7549 3631

Password: 873255

Dial in Phone #1 646 931 3860

Thursday November 16th 2023 7:00 pm
Day of Week Month Date Year Time

Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

I. Initial Business
a. Call to Order
b. Commendations
c. Public Comment
d. Student Representative

IL. District Updates — Dr Theresa McGuinness
a. FY25 budget status update

HL. Consent Action and Agenda Items
a, Schedule of Bills (vote)
b. Approval of Minutes (vote)

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
a. Forum / Community Discussion Topics
b, Approval of School Improvement Plans (Glover, Brown and Village Schools) (vote)
¢, Subcommittee and Liaison Updates and discussion

V. Closing Business

a. New Business- School Committee Announcements and Requests
b. Correspondence
Hybrid Meeting Notice: Members of the
Marblehead MA 01945 or by the remote
will not be suspended or terminated if te

public are welcome to attend this in-person at 2 Humphrey St
zoom connection provided. Please note that the in-person meeting
chnological problems interrupt the remote connection,

THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Chairperson: _Satah Fox
Posted by: Sarah Fox
Date: 11/13/2023

Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-314

Dr. Theresa B. McGuinness Msg, Julia Ferreira Ms. Michelle Cresta Dr. Paula Donnelly
Interim Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of Assistant Superintendent of — Director of Student Services
Teaching & Learning Finance & Operations
Memorandum
To: Marblehead School Committee

From: Theresa B. McGuinness, Ed.D, Interim Superintendent
RE: — Superintendent’s Updates
Date: November 16, 2023

Here is the Superintendent’s Newsletter - November 13, 2023

FY25 Budget Process Underway

Assistant Superintendent Michelle Cresta and J are grounding our budget goals and overarching priorities
on the strategic Plan for Success aligned with the school improvement plans. Through ongoing dialogue
and discussion with the Leadership Team, we will identify high-level budget priorities to frame the Fiscal
2025 MPS budget development process. We are convening with principals and other budget managers at
a series of planning meetings starting Monday before Thanksgiving. Given the present fiscal challenges
we anticipate a difficult budget process and will keep you updated throughout.

New Superintendent’s Induction Program (NSIP)

A Partnership between the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (ESE) and the
Massachusetts Association of School Superintendents (M.A.S.S.).

NSIP seeks to ensure that each superintendent begins their first year with a strong entry plan for engaging
stakeholders and gathering the information needed to develop a widely-understood and focused strategy
to accelerate student learning. The program is designed as a three (3) year program with content days and
individual coaching. Year 1: Superintendents receive 6 hours each month of one-to-one coaching from an
and 8 ‘Content Days’ with a cohort of new superintendents. My coach is former Lynnfield
Superintendent, Jane Tremblay.

Entry Plan

As part of my draft entry plan, I’ve begun an in-depth review of school and district budgets, policies,
procedures, programs, and data. I will use surveys with the primary goal of gauging the perspectives and
opinions of students, staff, parents, and community members with a vested interest in Marblehead Public
Schools. These data will provide insight into the considerable strengths of MPS, unique challenges, and
opportunities for growth. Once complete, J will share the final entry plan with the community. For more
information please refer to the Superintendent’s Newsletter.
Tuesday was The Ruby Bridges Walk to School Day (Village/ Glover/ Brown)

The walk was held on Nov. 14, the day in 1960 when then 6-year-old Ruby Bridges was admitted to the
all-white William Frantz Elementary School in New Orleans and pays homage to the journey Bridges
took to school. Elementary children had a book read to them about Ruby’s experience before walking
outside around the school to commemorate her walk to school.

Principal of the Day students (Winner of Friends of Marblehead Raffle) at Brown & Glover
Today children helped supervise/ make announcements/ write an article about the experience, observe in
classrooms and have lunch with a friend and the principal

MASC/M.A.SS. Joint Conference
Attended the annual MASC/M.A.S.5. Joint Conference last Wednesday and Thursday joined by the two
assistant superintendents and some School Committee members.

Notable Dates:

November 18 @10:00 Annual Powder Puff Football Game Marblehead v. Swampscott at MHS
e November 22 % day early dismissal
e

November 23 & 24th No school for Thanksgiving Break
November 23 @10:00 Annual Football Game Marbiechead v. Swampscott in Swampscott
Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-3140

Dr. Theresa B. McGuinness Ms, Julia Ferreira Ms. Michelle Cresta Dr. Paula Donnelly
Interim Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of Assistant Superintendent of — Director of Student Services
Teaching & Learning Finance & Operations
MEMORANDUM

TO: Marblehead School Cominittee

FROM: Michelle Cresta

DATE: November 15, 2023

RE: Schedule of Bills for Approval

Included in this packet are the following Schedules of Bills for your consideration. The schedules and
invoices have been uploaded to the shared drive.

Schedule Amount
24320 $ 39,726.64
24321 $ 73,384.29
24325 $ 53,246.55
24334 $ 21,548.84
24340 $ 24,652.61
24346 $ 21,418.72
24349 $ 58,025.97
24353 $ 41,022.85
24354 $ 17,288.60
24355 $ 8,964.00
24356 $ 7,243.41
24358 $ 12,434.89
24370 $ 19,009.52
24372 $ 1,663.41
24375 $ 100,053.65
24376 $ 12,697.40
24377 $ 14,148.55
24379 $ 239,115.41
24381 $ 2,772.56

TOTAL {$ 768,417.87

Suggested Motion:
Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $768,417.87.
Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Thursday August 24, 2023

7:00PM
Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner , Alison Taylor
Also Present: Michelle Cresta-Assistant Superintendent of Fiance

1, Initial Business

a. Call to Order
Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00PM

b, Commendations

= Staff Commended for work put in over the summer to get Marblehead ready for the start of the 2023/2024 School
Year

« Marblehead Housing Authority commended for event held this past weekend for tenants and they provided a lot
of materials to students

c. Public Comment
= None

IL, District Updates —- Michelle Cresta

= Reminder that next week starts the 2023/2024 School Year

= New Teacher Orientation Monday 08/28/2023

= All other Teachers return Tuesday 08/29/2023

= 09/05/23 Students Return

= 09/07/23 Pre-K Students Return

= Convocation Wednesday 08/30/23

= Transportation Registration opened last week, and we have 139 bus riders

«There is a small wait list for Pay to Ride program

= MBTA passes for Middle School and High School students are available in the Schools
IIL. Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills (vote)

Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $160,057.15
Moved by Ms. Shaeffner, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Shaeffner-All Yes
Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

b. Appointment of Nurse - Glover School (vote)

Motion to appoint Ms, Collins as School Nurse for the Glover School
Moved by Mr. Ota Seconded by Ms. Shaeffner

Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor , Mr, Ota and Ms. Shaeffner-All Yes

Aroll call vote was taken and the motion passes 4-0

TV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

a, Interim Superintendent Search Discussion —_ (vote)

= Contracted with NASDAQ to assist us in our Superintendent Search

«The notice went live on Monday 08/21/23

= Next step is to secure a Parent Volunteer as well as an Administrator to serve on the Search Committee
« 09/18/23 first meeting of Screening Committee

Ms, Fox asked for a motion to appoint Ms. Cresta to the interim Superintendent search committee
Moved by Ms.Shaeffner Seconded by Ms. Taylor

Opened up for Discussion

Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor , Mr. Ota and Ms. Shaeffner-All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

Ms, Shaeffner asked for a motion to appoint Ms. Fox and Ms. Alison Taylor to the interim Superintendent search
commitlee

Moved by Ms.Fox Seconded by Mr. Ota

Opened up for Discussion

Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor , Mr. Ota and Ms, Shaeffner-All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

b, Subcommittee and Liaison Updates

Curriculum Subcommittee
= Mr. Ota has done some research on the idea of a Curriculum Sub Committee
« 14 different districts were contacted
* Of the 14, 3 did not respond

= 2 districts have Curriculum Support Sub Committee’s
= The programs within these districts have evolved into something else that provides additional support to students

Mr. Ota asks for a motion to drop the Curriculum Subcommittee
Ms. Fox states that it was never originated and therefore there is no action needed today
Finance Committee

«No meeting scheduled at this time
= Need a plan to set up the meeting times for subcommittee

V. Closing Business
a, New Business- School Committee Announcements and Requests

= Ms. Fox was able to speak with the State Auditor at an event
= Ms. Fox would like to invite the statue auditor to come to Marblehead to audit our practices due to the concerns
shared by voters over School Committee transparency

b. Correspondence

«Ms, Taylor will be writing a letter to bring to the select board regarding the APRA funds

= The letter will be brought to the School Committee at the next meeting for review

= Ms, Fox received a piece of correspondence from another member of the School Committee Meagan Taylor
= Ms, Fox read the correspondence

Meeting is adjourned at 8:00PM by Ms. Fox

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Thursday September 07, 2023

7:00PM
Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner, Alison Taylor. Meagan Taylor
Also Present: Michelle Cresta-Acting Superintendent, Julia Ferreira-~Assistant Superintendent

I. Initial Business

a. Call to Order

Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:01PM

b, Commendations

= Mr. Ota Commends the building secretaries and the Custodians for their hard work over the
summer

= Ms. Alison Taylor wants to commend all of our principals on the their first days of school

= Ms. Meagan Taylor commended the parents students and staff for their part in the successful first
days of school

c, Public Comment

= Ms. Mary McCarriston requested an apology from Ms. Fox for a comment made prior to a School
Committee Meeting referring to “stakeholders” as “lunatics”

= Dan Albert-Bike shoulders for Glover to provide a safe route to school for children

» Alex Chrisak-Is in support of widening the shoulders. He shares his concerns regarding the
intersection at Glover where people turning right coming off of Maple Street onto Tedesco Street

= Resident shared concerns about the texts and emails released and published in the local papers.
She indicated that the texts and emails contained personal information of students and parents of
students.

«Jen Jackson-Co-Chair of the Marblehead Special Education Parent Advisory Council-Read an
email sent to Ms. Fox regarding the Interim Superintendent Search, The email was sent to request
participation in the Interim Superintendent Search Committee.

= Alex Shube- Echoed what Dan Albert said regarding needing the School Committee’s support
surrounding the bike shoulders for Glover. She pointed out that the Traffic Studies have been
done,

d. Student Representative-Kat Piper

« First week of classes

«Freshmen arrived at 7:45AM and grades 10-12 arrived at 11:00AM on the first day of school

«Students attended grade meetings, took class pictures and then they ran through an abbreviated
schedule

«They offered helpful resources to new students and went over updated policies
* Freshmen elections 10/08/23

= House of Blues will be the location of the Senior Prom this year which will be held on 05/29/24
= Graduation will be 05/31/24

«Club fair in the next couple of weeks, date TBD

= School Pictures 10/03/23

= All Fali Sports have begun in the district

IL. District Updates — Michelle Cresta
= Return of Staff / Convocation

o Dr. Judy Carrington was the Convocation speaker
° Dr, Carrington really connected with staff and focused on the mental health and well
being of both staff and students

« Successful school Opening and return of students
«Warm weather precautions

Hot spell

First priority is the safety of our students and staff
Full schedule for tomorrow

Providing additional fans and mitigation plans for heat

oo0o°0

" Special Education Assessment

© Requested by School Committee
oA late Memo was added to the School Committee drive today prior to the meeting
© The topic will be discussed at a future meeting

" Update from Julia Ferreira

© Positive and strong start to the school year
oO Commended all of our Staff for working so hard to launch the school year
o Last week the Teachers participated in three days of professional learning and trainings

Tl. Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills (vote)

Motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $663,934.07.
Moved by Alison Taylor, Seconded by Meagan Taylor
Ms. Fox, Ms, Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Shaeffner-All Yes

Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0
IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
a. Interim Superintendent Search Discussion (vote)

« Interim Superintendent Screening Committee will be comprised of two school committee
members, one administrator, a Unit A Staff member and one parent

= Michelle Cresta will be the Administrator

= Alison Carey will be the Staff Representative

= 12 parents sent in letters of interest for the parent position on the committee

» Sarah Fox nominated Sarah Magazine for the parent position on the committee

Sarah Fox asks for a Motion to appoint Sarah Magazine as the parent representative to the Interim
Superintendent Screening Committee

The motion is moved by Brian Ota and Seconded by Alison Taylor
Opened up for Discussion
= Meagan Taylor asks for more information as to how this candidate was chosen
Ms. Fox, Ms. Alison Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Shaeffner-All Yes
Ms. Meagan Taylor abstained from the vote
Aroll vote was taken and the motion passes 3-0 with one abstention

Meagan Taylor makes a motion to add a SEPAC (Special Education Parent Advisory Council.
Member) to the Interim Superintendent Search Committee

The motion was not seconded

The motion dies
b. ARPA (American Rescue Plan Act) discussion

= Alison Taylor obtained the most recent set of ARPA requests

= Ms. Taylors goal is to advocate for out students, our community and also to advocate for the
process to be more transparent

« Ms. Taylor will be meeting with Aarom Noonan an Thatcher, the Town Administrator, to walk
through what has been done so far and what these funds have been allocated to

c. School Handbooks (vote)

" Three handbooks have been submitted to the School Committee

"  Veterens Middle School, the Elementary School which covers Glover School, Brown School, and
Village School, and the last one is the High School

«A brief outline of what the changes are for each handbook has been given to the Committee

« Sarah Fox opens it up for questions and discussion

«Jen Shaeffner indicates that she will be abstaining from the vote today because she has not had
time to read through all school handbooks

«Michele Carison is asked by Ms. Fox to provide a bit more information about the High Schools
Diversion Program, I Decide, and the update made to the Handbook in regards to Vaping

= Ms. Fox addresses the dress code in the High School Handbook with Ms, Carlson

«Alison Taylor had some questions regarding the Bullying policy and specific wording in the
policy

"The School Committee will be reviewing handbooks in Spring 2024 to ensure that they are ready
to go for the start of the School Year

d. Subcomittee and Liaison Updates

"Safety Committee- Brian Ota
Oo Meeting will be scheduled within the next two weeks
= SEPAC-Meagan Taylor
oO First District meeting 09/08 at 12:00PM
*  Policy- Jennifer Shaeffner and Alison Taylor
© Meeting will be scheduled before the end of September
« Facilities Committee and Finance Committee-Sarah Fox
© There will be two high levei finance meetings each year to budget plan
© In the process of scheduling the first Finance Committee meeting
© In the process of scheduling the first Facilities Committee meeting

V. Closing Business

a. New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests
"None

b. Correspondence

«Correspondence received regarding the pieces of information released that was not redacted was
acknowledged by Alison Taylor

Meeting is adjourned at 8:26PM by School Committee Chair Ms, Fox

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
Record of the Marblehead Schoo! Committee Meeting
Wednesday October 11, 2023

4:18PM
Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner , Alison Taylor. Meagan Taylor
Also Present: Michelle Cresta-Acting Superintendent

I, Initial Business

a. Call to Order

Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 4:18PM

b. Commendations
= None
c. Public Comment

= Complaint raised by (go back for name) regarding the audio during the School Committee
Meetings when they are on Zoom

IL. Interim Superintendent Search Discussion (vote)
= The discussion on the Interim Superintendent Search is opened by Sarah Fox
«Meagan Taylor shared her thoughts on the Interim Superintendent Candidates
» Alison Taylor shared her thoughts on the Interim Superintendent Candidates
«Brian Ota shared his thoughts on the Interim Superintendent Candidates
«Jennifer Shaeffner shared her thoughts on the Interim Superintendent Candidates
= Sarah Fox shared her thoughts on the Interim Superintendent Candidates

Motion to keep Michelle Cresta in the role as Acting Superintendent made by Meagan Taylor

The motion is Seconded by Jennifer Shaeffner

Discussion opened by Sarah Fox

The motion was withdrawn by Meagan Taylor

Motion made by Jennifer Shaeffner to offer the position of Interim Superintendent of Marblehead Public
Schools to Dr. Theresa McGuinnes subject to successful contract negotiations with the chair

The motion was seconded by Brian Ota
Ms. Meagan Taylor-No
Ms. Alison Taylor, Mr, Ota, Ms. Shaeffner, Ms. Sarah Fox-All Yes
Aroll vote was taken and the motion passes 4-1

Sarah Fox asks for a motion of support for Dr. Theresa McGuinnes in the role of Interim Superintendent
through June 30, 2024

Moved by Jennifer Shaeffner, Seconded by Brian Ota
Ms. Meagan Taylor, Ms. Alison Taylor, Mr. Ota, Ms. Shaeffner, and Ms. Fox-All Yes
Aroll vote was taken and the motion passes 5-0
V. Closing Business
a. New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests
« None
Meeting is adjourned at 5:19PM by School Committee Chair Ms. Fox
Respectfully Submitted,

Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Lucretia and Joseph Brown School
and
Glover School

School Improvement Plan

2023-2024

Marblehead Public Schools
Focus Area

Teaching & Learning

District Strategic Fully align teaching and Learning, Pre k -12 with our multi-tiered system of
Objective supports (MTSS) framework to ensure all students meet or exceed academic &
social-emotional learning expectations.
District Strategic 1.1 Develop consistent systems, common assessments, & processes for data
Initiative(s) inquiry & analysis to support instructional excellence & student growth.

School Based Goal

To increase overall student achievement and further develop teacher capacity to
strengthen and align Tier 1 instruction as evidenced by observation and formal
data, including but not limited to iReady and curriculum based measures.

Improvement Strategies Action Steps Who Timeline Resources Status
Needed
All educators facilitating ELA | Implement Literacy Teachers August Time Ongoing to
instruction (Classroom Leads at each grade Administration | 2023- June include the
teachers, special educators, level Curriculum 2024 PD from beginning
ELL) will be given multiple coaches (gradual Wit and and end of
opportunities to study, observe | Provide Wit and rollout Wisdom each WIN
and implement the Wit and Wisdom training from with cycle, as well
Wisdom curriculum. Great Minds purposeful | Curriculum | as at the
PLC meetings time for materials conclusion of
reflection) unit
Ongoing Coaching and assessments
observation from
Literacy coaches
Implementation of Responsive | Cohorts of teachers Administrators | Fall 2023- | Faculty Ongoing
Classroom components and from both schools will | Teachers June 2024 | Meeting assessment
pillars to include but not participate in Counselors Time of practices
limited to: Morning Meeting Responsive Classroom | Psychologist PLC and
(Greeting, Activity, Share full week or refresher SpEd Chair Meeting implementati
Morning Message), Quiet training Time on at Staff
Time, Take a break Space, etc. Stipend for | Meetings and
as a Tier | Social Emotional Teachers from cohorts train the Mental
Support for all students. will model and teach trainer Health Team
Responsive Classroom (Teachers PLC as part
to their peers. teaching of the
teachers) MTSS-SEL
Teachers will work to Professional | development
implement Development
components of Time

Responsive Classroom
into their daily

schedule.

Implement data informed small
math intervention groups based
on instructional area of need

during the math block

PLCs will meet 4 times
annually to review
math data and group
students

Schedule will be
adapted for math tutors
to join grade level
PLCs monthly and
teach in grade level
classrooms 4 times a
week

Administration | Fall Time
Teachers 2023-2024 | Schedule
Math Coach for tutors to
Math Tutors meet with
Math teachers
Facilitators Time added.
to the math
block
fReady
Resources
Math Cool
Down
assessinents

Ongoing
progress
monitoring
through
Illustrative
Math and
iReady
assessments.

Focus Area

Professional Culture

Strategic Objective

Build, strengthen, & support educator capacity and well-being.

Strategic Initiative(s)

2.4 Develop & offer relevant, effective PD throughout the system.

School Based Goals

The Brown and Glover School Staff will engage in multiple opportunities
throughout the year to develop and strengthen a positive, engaging, and unified
professional culture where staff members feel a sense of belonging and thrive as

educators.
Improvement Strategies -| Action Steps Who Thneline ..| Resources Status
Needed

Regular use of Faculty Create SIP/PFS Principal and Aug-June | Time Ongoing
Meetings to connect, based groups with | Team Leaders,
evaluate and share our clear goals and all staff Goal and
development as teams and | objectives. members objective
as a staff. templates

SIP Groups will be

provided School

opportunities to Improvement

collaborate with Plan

colleagues

throughout the Plan for Success

year. (ie faculty

meetings, PLC

Meetings, and PD

days.)
Further develop our Provide Principal, October- Time, coverage Ongoing
Professional Learning opportunities for | Teachers, June and reflection

Communities

teachers to grow
professionally by
observing one
another and
reflecting on best
practices,

Leaders.
Literacy Leads,
Math
Facilitators,
Inclusion
Teacher's

protocols

Focus Area

Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

Strategic Objective

Promote equity. & ensure inclusion by acknowledging & embedding all forms of
diversity throughout the district,

Strategic Initiative(s)

3,6 Identify, create, & evaluate practices to ensure all students have access to high
quality educational opportunities.

collection processes
and protocols,

Continue to build
inclusive practices
into the curriculum,
including morning
meeting time, and
morning
announcements

Continue to build
common language
around common
school wide
expectations as
identified by PBIS
Team

Meeting time
Time for PBIS/
DEI Teams to
meet

Time to review
and reinforce
school wide
expectations at
the beginning of
the year and
throughout the
year (after school
vacations)

School-Based Goal _| The Brown and Glover School staff members will work to ensure accessibility as
it relates to all students as measured by the unplementation of the DCAP and
sharing of best practices during professional development time.

Improvement Action Steps ‘Who Timeline Resources Status
Strategies Needed
Continue to collaborate to | Provide PBIS Principal, August- Technology Ongoing
ensure we are offering Teams and mental Teachers, June Morning
inclusive practices health teams with DEI Team announcement
throughout the school. Professional PBIS Team time

Learning time to School Wide

develop data Community

School wide
reinforced monthly
core values

The DEI Team will
review and share out
best practices from the
district DCAP to support
the learning of all
students and facilitate

DEI Team will
review the DCAP

Create a plan to
share best
practices utilizing
the DECAP as it
aligns to MTSS
during faculty
meeting times.

Principal,
DEI Team

Sept.-June

Time to meet

Access to the
district DCAP

Ongoing

Village School

School Improvement Plan

2023-2024

‘VILLAGE SCHOOL

#KeepEachOtherWell

Focus Area

Teaching & Learning

District Strategic

Fully align teaching and Learning, Pre K-12 with our multi-tiered system of

Objective supports (MTSS) framework to ensure all students meet or exceed academic &
social-emotional learning expectations,
District Strategic | 1.2 Expand, & refine instruction to ensure the taught curriculum is consistent &
Initiative(s) equitable for all students.

1.4 Provide professional development that supports educator development,
including best practices for inclusive curriculum.

School-Based Goal

100% of Village ELA and Math teachers will implement and provide high
quality instruction to all students using Wit and Wisdom and IIlustrative Math.

Improvement Action Steps Who Timeline Resources Status
Strategies Needed
Village School ELA Wit and Wisdom PD Teachers August 2023- Time
teachers will learn and Administration | June 2024
implement the Wit and | PLC meetings Curriculum PD from Wit
Wisdom curriculum. coaches (gradual rollout | and Wisdom
Teachers will collaborate to with purposeful
streamline lesson plans time for Curriculum
across the grade level reflection) materials
Village School Math Participate in vertical Teachers September Time
teachers will use data | planning Curriculum 2023- June
to analyze and align in order to determine multiple | coaches 2024
instruction, methods to show mastery. Administration
Use MCAS, iReady, and
relevant data to support areas
for growth and areas of
strength in the curriculum.
Look at common
assessments, and score
together to calibrate.
Through this process, | Schedule time for transitional | Teachers September PLC and
teachers will school staff to work in Administration | 2023-June 2024 | department
collaborate with departments Curriculum time
Brown, Glover and coaches
Veterans school staff to
align the curriculum
and assure standards
are addressed.

Focus Area Professional Culture
Strategic Build, strengthen, & support educator capacity and well-being.
Objective
Strategic 2,3 Ensure adequate opportunities and spaces for collaboration in each school
Initiative(s) and district wide.
2.4 Develop & offer relevant, effective PD throughout the system.

School Based Goal | With the assistance of our coaching staff and teacher leaders, Village will create
opportunities to offer relevant PD through staff and PLC’s in order to strengthen
our teaching and learning.

Improvement Action Steps Who Timeline Resources Status
Strategies Needed
By working with Determine teachers and staff | Administration | August Time
teacher leaders to with expertise in specific Lead Teachers | 2023- June
define relevant PD for | areas, Coaches 2024 Technology
our staff, Village will Create a survey to determine
research and offer PD | what people need to support
to support student instruction.
needs.
Village will continue Teacher leaders and coaches | Administration | August Opportunities to
the process of creating | research and find PD , 2023- visit other
train-the-trainer models | resources relevant to math, Lead Teachers, } June 2024 districts
to strengthen teacher ELA, grading and SEL. Coaches
knowledge and Time for PD as
capacity. set in the
district
Wednesday
calendar.
Village teachers and Professional staff PD, PBIS | Administration | August PD, planning
staff will revisit PBIS within the umbrella of MTSS | , teachers, 2023-June time
as a faculty, setting teams to meet. PBIS team. 2024
consistent and revised | New systems created.
language, and
expectations
Determine areas of Set up PD during faculty Coaches August PLC time
need in WIN for meetings in relation to WIN | Administration | 2023- June planning time.
teachers to strengthen | strategies. Teachers 2024
best instructional Teachers participate in
practices training on interventions
Create cycles for
interventions with data
meetings to address areas of
need and areas of growth.

Focus Area Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Strategic Promote equity & ensure inclusion by acknowledging & embedding all
Objective forms of diversity. throughout the district.
Strategic 3.6 Identify, create, & evaluate practices to ensure all students have access
Initiative(s) to high quality educational opportunities.
School-Based _| Village will focus on strengthening a sense of belonging for all students
Goal within the Village School Community to promote inclusivity, recognition,
education, and foster relationships.
Improvement Action Steps ‘Who Toneline Resources Status
Strategies Needed
By continuing the DEI Reflect on curriculum, DEI team September Curriculum
team we will strengthen j resources and core novels 2023- June resources
conversations and for varying perspective 2024
reflections to be sure we | taking. Time

are increasing our
inclusive practices,

Build in more time for
students to practice social
skills, (community
meetings, peer
mentor/leadership
program

Analyze data and use it

Look at discipline referrals

DEI team and

September

data from

to strengthen inclusive Deterinine alternate PBIS team 2023- June ASPEN,
practices. consequences and Administration | 2024 google forms-
strengthen PBIS Teachers behavior
community expectations referrals.
Improve Organize spirit and Teachers September Time
student-to-student and awareness days to Administration | 2023-June scheduled for
student/teacher celebrate neurodiversity, DEI team 2024 meetings
relationships Make announcements in Counselors SEL
different languages. Counselors
Educate and provide Outside
opportunities to reflect resources/
different holiday/cultural guest
events, Create whole grade speakers

level community
meetings. Utilize advisory
for education
opportunities,

