MEETING NOTICE

POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 3A § 20 Act retatlve to extending certain COVID-19 measures

adopted during the state of emergency

Marblehead School Committee

DATE PosTED: = [

Town Clerk Uso Only

UM JAN 30 pap,

wat

2a

SAL
a

>

Name of Board or Committee

Address: Marblehead High School — Library at 2 Humphry St. Marblehead MA 01945

QR

Zoom Conference join via the web link or Dial in

https://marbleheadschools-org,zoom.us/j/9997549363 | pwd=V Op WVM2Y itBZXNOU2ZyTkIOMzh4dz09

Meeting ID: 999 7549 3631
Password: 873255
Dial in Phone #1 646 931 3860

Thursday

February

Ist

2024

7:00 pm

Day of Week

Month

Date

Yoar

Time

Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (‘That the chair ceasonably anticipates will be discussed)
ip

L._ Initial Business
a. Call to Order

b. Commendations
c. Public Comment
d. Student Representative

I, District Updates - Dr Theresa McGuinness
a, School Calendar 2024-2025
b. FY25 budget status update

TH, Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills

b. Approval of Minutes

TV, School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

Rreao se

V. Closing Business

Marblehead High School Turf Replacement
Marbichead High School Overnight Field Trip Approval (Greece and DECA club)
Matblehcad High Schoo! Program of Studies Changes
Director of Finance and Operations Position Approval
School Committee Vacancy Update

Superintendent Search Process Discussion
Subcommittee and Liaison Updates and discussion

a. New Business- School Committee Announcements and Requests

b. Correspondence
c, Adjournment

(vote)

(vote)
(vote)

(vote)
(vote)
{vote)
(vote)

(vote)

Hybrid Meeting Notice; Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person at 2 Humphrey St. Marblehead MA
01945 or by the remote zoom connection provided, Please note that the in-person meeting will not be suspended or
terminated if technological problems interrupt the remote connection.

THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Chairperson: Sarah Fox
Posted by: Sarah Fox
Date: 1/30/2024

Marblehead High School

Michele Carlson Lindsay Donaldson
Principal Assistant Principal
2 Humphrey Street baby
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01943-2290 A nen al
(781) 639-3100 :
(781) 639-3105 fax
January 24,2024

To: School Committee
From: Marblehead High School DECA Club

Subject: DECA Club overnight field trip

We request permission for an overnight field trip for our DECA students at the state
competition in Boston. The annual DECA State Career Development Conference will
take place this year from Thursday, March 7, through Saturday, March 9.

Students would leave MHS in the afternoon of March 7, after school, and return on
Saturday, March 9. This will require two overnights (March 7 and 8).

Thirty-four students will be competing at this event, Winners from this competition will
move on to compete at the international level in Anaheim, California, this April, The
school committee has previously approved al! requests for this overnight trip since our
chapter began in 2017.

The students will be staying overnight at the Boston Marriott, Copley Place, Events will
take place at the Boston Marriott and the Hynes Convention Center.

Fundraising has been used to reduce the cost for each student to approximately $396.
This program is supported in part by a grant from the Friends of the Marblehead Public
Schools, Inc.

Thank you for your consideration.

oy a i?
Vanec ee ep lhe

ffanice Skalaban

Date:
To:

From:

Subject:

MEMORANDUM

Thursday, February 1, 2024
Marblehead School Committee

Rebecca Blomberg

Jenn Billings

English Faculty

Marblehead High School English Department

EF Tours Trip to Greece
April 18-April 27, 2025 (pending MPS public school calendar for 2024-2025)
Open to students in grades 10, 11, and 12 (maximum of 36 students, 6 chaperones)

The Marblehead High School English Department is planning a trip to Greece. In
addition to exploring Athens and three of the neighboring islands, students will select a
classic Greek play, Oedipus Rex or Antigone, and then explore the text in depth through
experiential learning. We will visit key locations from the plays—the Oracle at Delphi
and Corinth—and learn about ancient Greek culture. Students will also be able to draw
numerous connections to Homer's classic The Odyssey as it is woven into the fabric of
what it means to be Greek. We are incredibly excited to offer this travel opportunity.
Expected costs for airfare, accommodations, tour excursions, as well as two meals a day
is estimated at $4200/pey person.

Budget Requirements

1) 3 Year projection for student population: SC 24-25, SC 25-26, FY26-27

2) The population breakdown will be further analyzed by school by grade. The principals will
break this forecast into their schools

3)

For example: Glover School: grades Pre-K, K, 1-3

a)

b)

e)

)

g)

How many students per grade/ per classroom

If Glover is projecting 4 Pre-K classrooms, the class size and the staff makeup i.e., a
classroom teacher and the support staff

K classrooms: 4 classrooms the class size and the staff makeup i.e., a classroom teacher
and support staff

Grades 1-3: 4 classrooms, the class size and the staff makeup i.e., classroom teachers
The number of Allied Arts teachers: PE, Music, Art, and Library

The number of Literacy and Math tutors and the number of students they support by
grade

Secretaries: Office and Special Education
Lunch aides
Special Education

i) The number of inclusion teachers and their classroom assignments and number of
1EP Students they support and any inclusion support staff

ii} The number of Special Education Teachers in Special education classrooms i.e,
Therapeutic and ACCESS

ii) Number of BCBAs and how many students do they support

iv) Adjustment counselor; the number of school counselors and psychologist

2} OT/PT Speech and language (This may come from Student Services}

Record of the Marblehead Schoo! Committee Meeting
Thursday November 16, 2023
7:00PM

Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Shaeffer, Alison Taylor. Meaghan Taylor

Also Present; Dr. Theresa McGuinnes-Interim Superintendent, Michelle Cresta- Assistant

Superintendent of Finance, Julia Ferveira-Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and
Learning

L. Initial Business

a. Call to Order

Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00PM

b. Commendations

Brian Ota would like to commend our Custodians, Bus Drivers, Nurses, Cafeteria staff,

Secretaries, Para’s and Tutors, Specials Teachers, Physical Education Teachers, ELA Teachers,
Schoo! Psychologists, Counselors, Social Workers, Speech Therapists, and last but not least our
General and Special Education Teachers

Brian would like to thank all of us for the work that we do for our students and staff

Satah Fox states that she has such “deep gratitude” for all of our staff as we head into
Thanksgiving
Jonathan Heller and Sally Shevory the Co-Chairs of the MEA would like to commiend all of our

educators and suppott staff for their hard work and dedication to keeping Marblehead Public
Schools students safe healthy and successful

Alison Taylor would like to wish the Marblehead Youth Hockey team good luck in their

tournament against St. Lambert in Canada

c, Public Comment

Maty McCarriston-Pine Cliff Drive Marblehead

© Mary has been making phone calls to other cities and towns regarding the Flag Policy
o She spoke to a Lawyer regarding the parent removal of the flag in the MHS Cafeteria

Tania (get last name from last week's minutes)-Dorchester

© Tania would like to know if the School Committee has come up with a consequence for
the removal of the flag

o She would like to make sure that her son feels comfortable in schoo! and at this time he
does not feel comfortable

o “Somebody needs to have some compassion for what is going on”

» Nyla Dubois-Green Street Marblchead

0 Nyla started by stating that she “feels awful that there are any kids who feel like taking
down that flag was a gesture of racism”

© She goes on to state that “the problem I see with the flags is that a flag may be a sybolg of
safety for one petson it might be a symbol of something else for someone else”

o Nyla states that she “doesn’t believe that the school should be an arbiter of who fees safe
and who doesn’t”

d. Student Representative-Kat Piper

» High school entered Q2 on 11/13

» National Honors Society has resumed their tutoring program which pairs students with peer tutos
in every subject

» The honor society is conducting a Food Drive for Thanksgiving
« Acapella is holding is annual “Sing Free or Die Hard” concert on Tuesday [1/21 at 7 PM

+ The Animal Wellness Club is running a Pet Supply Collection Bin which they will donate to the
Northeast Animal Shelter

+ The Marblehead Drama Club will be holding auditions for the student written plan “It’s about
Pirates and Nothing Else” on 12/04

* There will be a Pep Rally at the High School on 11/22 in preparation for the Thanksgiving
football game

» The sophomore class is selling raffle tickets for a chance to pie a teacher in the face at the Pep
Rally

* The Juniors have started looking for items to sell off for the annual Junior Class Auction and they

have also been selling sweatpants, tank tops and headbands to show their spirit for the
Powderpuff game on Saturday 11/25

1 The powederpuff Senior girls have been participating in Spirit Week in preparation for their big
game

«The Senior swill have their potluck brunch on [1/19

» Both Cross Country teams will be advancing to All Stages this Saturday 11/25

Football is preparing for its annual Thanksgiving game on Thanksgiving at (OAM

a. District Updates-Dr. Theresa McGuinness

The Veterans school was celebrated in the newspaper today for theit MCAS results
o They are currently 30th in the ranking for all of MA. The DOE provided this recognition
0 65% of the students scoring above average or exceeding in Mathematics and 66% in
reading
Dr. McGuinness refers to a Memorandum that was added to the School Committee Agenda that
provides a bit of an introduction into who Dr, McGuinness is and how she is beginning to lead the
district at this time and includes her “Entry Plan”

Budget Update will be provided by Assistant Superintendent Michelle Cresta

Dr. McGuinness references the “New Superintendent Induction Program” which is a partnership
between the Department of Education and the MA Association of Schoo! Committees
o This program ensures that there is support and strategy development done with coaching
o Jane Tremblay will be Dr. McGuinnes’s coach and she will be joining the next School
committee meeting

Tuesday was Ruby Bridges “Walk to School Day” for Village, Glover and Brown Schools

FY 25 Budget Status Update-Michelle Cresta
o Starting the process for the FY25 Budget process
o Packets should be provided to principals in the next day or two and returned by 12/18/23
for Finance Team review
The intent is to have Budget books to the Committee by 01/12/24
The Town has requested that we provide them with two budgets

= One for “Level Services” and one for “Reduced Services”

* “Reduced Services” maintains the current level of funding that we have in FY
2024
o The final budget recommendation will be brought to the School Committee before it goes
to the Finance Committee for approval

Ill, Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills (vote)

Motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $768,417.87.

Moved by Ms. Shacffer, Seconded by Mr.Ota

Ms. Meagan Taylor, Ms Alison Taylor, Mr. Ota, Ms, Shaeffer and Ms, Fox-All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

b. Approval of Minutes (vote)

Motion to approve the minutes from 08/24/23 pending the edits mentioned

Moved by Ms. Shaeffer, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Ms Alison Taylor, Mr. Ota, Ms, Shaeffer and Ms. Fox-All Yes with one abstention
Ms. Meagan Taylor abstained from the vote

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

Motion to approve the minutes from 09/07/23 and 10/11/23

Moved by Ms, Shaeffer, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Ms. Meagan Taylor, Ms Alison Taylor, Mr. Ota, Ms. Shaetfer and Ms. Fox-All Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

[V, School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

a. Forum / Community Discussion Topics

» There will be a series of Public Community Forums in which there will be a discussion with the
committee and the public

* The public will ask questions and the committee will answer them

« The first onc the School Committee would like to have is on budget in the beginning of December
b. Approval of School Improvement Plans (Glover, Brown and Village Schools) (vote)

« Amanda Murphy-Village School Principal

o Amanda goes through the improvement plans for the Village School
o Plan can be found in the Agenda, Materials and Minutes section of
MarbleheadSchools.org

» Mary Maxfield and Hope Doran

© Maty and Hope go through the improvement plans for the Brown and Glover Schoools
o Plan can be found in the Agenda, Materials and Minutes section of
MarbleheadSchools.org

Motion to approve the School Improvement Plans as presented for the Glover School, the Lucretia and
Joseph Brown School and the Village School

Moved by Ms. Shaeffer, Seconded by Mr. Ota
Ms, Meagan Taylor, Ms Alison Taylor, Mr. Ota, Ms. Shaeffer and Ms. Fox-All Yes
A vote was taken and the motion passes 5-0

. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates and Discussion

» Sarah Fox talks about the Conference attended and highlighted the workshops provided

«Policy Committee-Jennifer Shaeffer

o The Policy Committee has not met since the last School Committee meeting
o Jennifer would like to set up a meeting for after Thanksgiving

V. Closing Business

a. New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests

« Sarah Fox requests information on Al and how we’re using it in our schoo!
» Sarah asks questions to Julia Ferreira about the program IReady

«Meagan Taylor references the list of priorities for the Interim Superintendent Role and when

those priorities will be laid out for Dr. McGuinnes

b. Correspondence
« None

Meeting is adjourned at 8:26 PM by School Committee Chair Ms. Fox

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

uoissnasig/susysen® = “¢

ainpeuss seloig A
WOO OD HE
sjusuoduied welsAsS “H
{NOADT Pied

suoyIPUSD pesodoig pial iedig J

suoHIpucd Buysixg piety tedig —*f

WONIOV

root ‘| Moniged | UORDJUSSAle SALWUWIOD joCYUss | Bulopyinsay pyely secig

joours YBIH posys|qiow

WAISAS Lin} Buysixg | suoMpUOD Suysixg plaiy sdig

(SNOLOAA
Buiusoy,) pue s: ayseds UOds) BunauesBory S3pj ue 84 - 78S/y Ayunuwor s
J8@YD ‘ABYOOY PIsiy HOMO] TEIs0g - SU PHPLY UEdC SOHBAY HEY SHI +

SULUO/,| JSWIUING

ABODOS SULA] YNPYY "BSSOIIET YINGA 3OI9OS YINGA, » $3887} Ayunuwoe).
BSSOINE] O/G - SONPIYTY SHIA) -

"BUNS Pill - YOU2|A| SIE]

JED00S S UBL] FINPYY peqOo] Se] 4 VBI905 yINOJ - si@sy AyUNUOT)
Aaja0}{ pjaty Ye2005 D/g eGo, - SONY SHIA} +

JEqUBAdKy Sy29 - snBny e]e]

$18Sf) Plaid Jedig

PTOT ‘| Amnuciey | UOLDUEssIg SSLWUWOD joGUDS | Buoninssy play sedid

jooyss YBiH poays|qiny

WisyscS Lin, Buysixg | suoyipuod Suysixg pjeiy sedig

S[SUSJOW [IVE

weysA§ pny Buys

Pay - ODE * OB! = Piety APCH PIy -

(78u0F) je enue 3} oO} JQIND: pusdsey i)) MOIS, - OES x Sot = Piety 489905 .
eBueic, - Oe x Oe = PRY BSSOIDE] SIs) .

BMG - CEE X ORI = Pisiy esso-3e9 sfog -

BHU ~ OSE * OGL = PRIS HEqICos -

(@iey uORes gu) Jysur Ze) Buoys sBeuleiq .

Peg pUaLINTD ON} .

pmunds Auedwoy .

(pbes 491 | Ear 96S) INU! eagry PU pues yIrejUEWeIYoUD,) -

PEC’ ‘| Apnigeg | UOLOJUesalg SSLLUUWOD JOoUaS | Buioounsey DysIg Jedig

jooyds YBIH poaysjqinw

ene" aero

WW ‘posusiqiow | joouss Sin PHeYysiqipw

Bulopyinsey pleig iodig poeysjqunw

wartelune | cones
sutettuwnsarots | 30

SVLIALLOV

iS)

SJUSUOMWOD WUasshg | SUOHIPUOD pasodolg prely iedig

JuswADpepun jualssy S|DUSyOW [yu] SIPHOOW [YU]

wueyshs yin] pasodoig wiaysAs ing Buysixg

TOT ‘| Aupniges | UCHDlUSsalg setULUOD joouss | Buiopunssy pyeld uscig

joouss YyBIH posysjqunw

LE°S09' S65

oo'00s‘ee$
VSS IPS

98°606'EcaS

VEVIN LL
LU eze'set
LESPP'OLLS
ooosz‘os$
os ZeL‘eess

L£89S¢°Z01$
Go'os0’o1$

UOIUIGS {soD | sucipucD pasodolg pyals sedid

SISOD LOSrOud SISVAONd AO NOINIGO AAVNIWI2ad

S8O4 (SDHAYOY)} JUDYNSUCD
AdUSBUYUOD UBISeg Pur AdUSHuyUOD UOHOMysUOTD %S

TWLOLENS NOUDNISNOS

WOsd PUD PNBUIBAD SIOLOOULOD YOL
SUCIEPUOD JDISUSH %S

TWLOLENS

DNILIEN ONY ONIDNA ¥y0000

aid dal OUSHINAS MAN £0000
NOliVavdaad (ald GNV AYOMHIYVS ZO006
NOILVavd3dd SUIS ONY NOUVZIMSOW 10000

ONIDVAUNSSY A13id Yadid TOOHDS HOI AVAHITVW

peoz | AIpnigey | UOHDJUSsSig SAJUUILUOD JOOUDS | Buisopnsey piel sjedig

looyds YBIH posysiqinw
QINPeUDs JOslOlg | suOWIPUOD pasodoly pjaly Jedig

NEEsOD Palais £°g WI]
MogRASRMUPY BIO ZS UH
SUSIA BUS PLE SEGUNDO UORIANSUOD 1°g UHay

: i SUSIA Ong plus abunaeW wananisHED 2°5 We]
SOQUIOG ORE DIE Sy UNG ”" paouies e8ete pig bp wen
Supsoyy suzownns0g uopanAsUsD 6 wR | RSSLUMIOG UORGIISUOD jE We

Suewunsog vosanasued; 46 wal :
Bermon eerurecg uennniuts os Ez eH

Bugsy staumog uororasio] 60S Ee Way.

‘Swownaog uoponasuog %05 £2 Wat) Ryesilsreary uopengauoD 05 6% weil

Bupaagy Bupepns oxaqary zz wa) =p Bunton Gopepns aneiiny ZZ watt
Buyaay Cuwiuesbord ;poOpoI PT WEN Bugaoyy Bune sbole / yoy bz uN,
Soysar pips Gonses 25 wan ce Supsen prot Buysecs ob wey.

ig SuORIDUOD BunerS 5's Wie
‘WOISSTIOEI) 40) DINDIUOS BY ~

Rruveiimesn: mia 1 psd 2 nears

7707 ‘1 AlONIG|S | UOUDIUEsalg SSLKULUOD jOOYss | BuoeuNse Didiy Jecig

jooyrs YBIH posysqiny

Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-3140

Dr. Theresa B. McGuinness Ms, Julia Ferreira Ms, Michelle Cresta
Interim Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of Assistant Superintendent of
Teaching & Learning Finance & Operations

February 1, 2024

Dear Marblehead Community,

jam reporting to you tonight regarding a disturbing and hateful incident that occurred at MVMS this
week. A drawing of a swastika was found on a wall in the school library and immediately removed, |
want to unequivocally and publicly condemn this act, and reaffirm our commitment to being an
antiracist school district. The swastika is a symbol of hate and there is no excuse for ignorance.

We know that our most important job is to provide a safe and secure environment where students are
free to be, free to learn, and free to engage with each other in their education, while maintaining a
strong sense of identity and belonging. We pledge to call these incidents out and address them
whenever they happen. | want to be clear, hate has no home here in Marblehead Public Schools!

We need to continue to work together to strengthen our school community. Please talk with your
children about these types of acts to help us educate them.

Please read Principal Fox's message below that was sent to his school community today. He cites
some of the many ways we are building historical background knowledge so students will be more
aware of the genocide that occurred during the Holocaust and more recently, and the pure hate and
anti-Semitism that the swastika portrays.

Keep each other well,

Dr. Theresa MCGuinness

FEES ITA TO IO IIE IO RIO

Good morning Veterans families,

| am reaching out to you with a heavy heart full of disappointment, sadness, and some anger.
Unfortunately, on a wall near the floor in the library we discovered a drawing of a swastika.
The drawing was immediately removed from the wall. We have notified the police of the
incident, and we are conducting our own investigation to determine the origin of this symbol
of hate. This graffiti is especially disheartening given the current globally impactful events in
the Middle East.

We have taken tremendous steps at Veterans and across the district to ensure that our
students learn about the Holocaust and the world-altering impact that event has had on our
world-wide community. For example, in the 8" grade, our students actively read and discuss
the memoir, Night, by Elie Wiesel. Additionally, we have had numerous guest speakers (some

of whom are parents/relatives of our teachers) who have survived the Holocaust speak to our
students about what they have gone through and how that symbol of hate impacts them to
this day. We also have plans to provide professional development to support this 8" grade
unit by sending a staff member to an ADL conference this spring. Here at MVMS, we have
truly invested in ensuring that when students leave our campus to head to high school, they
fully understand the Holocaust and the impact it still has on the world foday.

! would like to thank the students who reported the graffiti to the teacher as soon as they
found it, | implore you to speak to your children about this incident, to ensure that they fully
grasp the hateful meaning of this symbol.

Respectfully,

Matt Fox
Principal
Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-3140

Dr, Theresa B. McGuinness Ms. Julia Ferreira Ms. Michelle Cresta
Interim Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of Assistant Superintendent of
Teaching & Learning Finance & Operations
MEMORANDUM
TO: Marblehead School Commnittee
FROM: Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent for Finance & Operations
DATE: January 31, 2024
RE: Schedule of Bills for Approval

Included in this packet are the following Schedules of Bills for your consideration. The schedules and
invoices have been uploaded to the shared drive.

Schedule Amount
24659 $ 30,837.22
24660 $ 32,206.92
24662 $ 9,739.25
24663 $ 16,166.13
24664 $ 31,974.34
24674 $ 5,500.94
24682 $ 144,359.58
24683 $ 196,883.00
24684 $ 249,398.78
24688 $ 4,219.12
24689 $ 600.00
24692 $ 18,070.60
24693 $ 22,474.85

TOTAL | $ 762,430.73

Suggested Motion:
Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $762,430.73.

