MEETING NOTICE

POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 30A § 20 Act relative to extending certain COVID-19 measures
adopted during the state of emergency

Marblehead School Committee
aharblencad school Committee

Name of Board or Committee

Address: Marblehead High School — Library at 2 Humphry St. Marblehead MA 01945

OR

Zoom Conference join via the web link or Dial in

hitps://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.tis/j/9997549363 1 2pwd=¥ OpHWVM2YitBZXNOU2ZyTk 1OMzh4dz09
Meeting ID: 999 7549 3631

Password: 873255

Dial in Phone #1 646 931 3860

Wednesday May Ist 2024 7:00 pm
Day of Week Month Date Year Time

Agenda or Topics to be discussed Hsted below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

I. Initial Business
a. Call to Order

Hl. Overview of Process and Organization

I. Interviews for Interim Superintendent of Schools
a. Dr, Barbara Cataldo 7:15pm
b. Dr. David Thomson 8:30 pm

IV, Interview Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations Candidate

{

V. Closing Business
a. Adjournment

Hybrid Meeting Notice: Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person at 2 Humphrey St. Marblehead MA
01945 or by the remote zoom connection provided, Please note that the in-person meeting will not be suspended or
terminated if technological problems interrupt the remote connection.

THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Chairperson; Sarah Fox
Posted by: Sarah Fox
Date: 412912024
as
Barbara J, Cataldo, Ed.D.

TRENGTHS

Expert {ntarpersonal, negatlation, and taam bullding skills

Create School Cultures designed for all learners

Strategie and collaborative educational leader

Proven leadership for instructional improvement

Developmental curriculum development, alignment and assessment
Persuasive communicator with parente and facully

Studant-focused needs analysis and Improved performance
Strategic planning and organizational restructuring

oeeoewrvreaee

EDUCATION

Northeastern University Boston, MA
Ed.D In Educational Leadership

Harvard Univeralty Cambridge, MA
Masters of Education

Wheaton Collage Norton, MA
Bachelor of Arts

STRATIVE EXPERIENC

Interim Executive Director of Student Services Hingham, MA
Hingham Publle Schools

¢ Create system-wide change past pandemic Issuas

Support the department and coordinate efforts with new Strategic Plan

Responsible for working with all Principats to enstire legal mandates mal In all buildings

Overhaul system of programming Prek-High School

institute procedures and processes In order to calibrate services district-wide

Work with families fo instill a sense of trust

Advised Superintendant on next steps on Student Service topics as well as other areas as raquested
Responsible for reorganization of Student Services Department

coon ew oe @

intarim Director of Special Education

Wayland Public Schools Wayland, MA
Create an organizational structure for the Speclal Education Department

Design programe lo assist students with special needs to remain In the community

Wrote first handbook for Special Education Department for the district

Advised the Superintendent on budgelary items

Realign Team Leader structure In order to ensure fidellly

Responsihle for Ciroult Breaker, IDEA Granl, METCO grant, eto.

eee ee

Director of Student Support

The Kingsley Montessor] School Boston, MA
« Oversea all daily operations of Student Support

¢ — Introduced recovery plan for studants post remote learning

¢ Created reading plan for unified mulllsensory teaching

* Collaborated with all classroom teams gulding teaching

¢ Responsible for directing SEL support for students
Barbara Cataldo 2

Director of the Boston College Campus School

BOSTON COLLEGE Newton, MA
* Realigned professional development tralning program

Established mentoring program for new teachers

Created new Transition Learning Center for students ages 16-21

Awardad $20,000 grant from Joy In Blue Foundation to bulld assistive technology

Created School Culture Program and Introduced leadership opportunity for teachers enroliad in
university leadership program

aeeoe

Superintendent of Schools
COHASSET PUBLIC SCHOOLS Cohasset, MA

Manage elghteen-militon-dollar budget

Created technology plan with shared resources to reduce overhead

Oversaw reorganizatlon of leadership team

Produced two Strategle Plans

Bullt first collaborative relailonship among all town departments in two decades
Fortifled K-12 curriculum alignment with common core standards

Responsible for raising all schools to Level [ within DESE designation

oon eavece

Assistant Superintendent for Pupil Personnel Services
MILFORD PUBLIC SCHOOLS Milford, MA

Responslble for multimililon dollar budgel and cost containment

Created system-wide professional development opportunities In curriculum and instruction
Assisted elementary principals In rearganizatton to enhance RTI implementation

Worked In conjunction with curriculum supervisors to address AYP

Created first preschool program In the country offering IPada® to students for Instructional use
Advised the Superintendent on curriculum, spectal education, and leadership Initiatives

ees vee

Director of Special Education
ARLINGTON PUBLIC SCHOOLS Arlington, MA

Provided Instructional leadership resulting tn improved student achievement
Developed Inclusionary programs In all schools

Managed multi-milllon-dollar budget

Served as advisor to superintendent in curriculum and special education matters
Conducted Interdepartinental reading training at the elementary level

eostetee

Special Needs Coordinator
CAMBRIDGE PUBLIC SCHOOLS Cambridge, MA

Developed profassional development opportunities for all staff

Served on the literacy committee of CPS and Harvard GSE

Responsible for the Implementation of technology across the distiiet

Served on instructional Counall providing leadership for teaching and learning
Created and oversaw professional development for co-teaching at the secondary level
Responsible for grant writing

oeeoeere

ADDITIONAL EXPERIENGE

Reading Specialist
DEDHAM COUNTRY DAY SCHOOL Dedham, MA

Educational Gonsultant
Educattonal Solutions Needham, MA
Barbara Calaido 3
Interim Director of Student Services

SUDBURY PUBLIC SCHOOLS Sudbury, MA
Intern Assistant Director of Student Services

WESTON PUBLIG SCHOOLS Weston, MA
Reading Specialist

SHERBORN PUBLIC SCHOOLS Sherborn, MA
Co-Teacher of the Learning Program

NEWTON PUBLIC SCHOOLS Newton, MA
Spectal Education Instructor

FRAMINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS Framingham, MA

NOTABLE ACCOMPLISHMENTS

e
*

°

Created a sustainable technology plan for the district that entalls a full rollout to students over two years
Established RTI program to assist with enhancing classroom experience for struggling learners

Saved more than one million dollars from special education budget by restructuring services and crealing
programs {o reduce out of district participation

Served as expert witness for Public Schools in special education cases

Worked In collaboration with the Reading Coordinator/principal, the system instituted a structured reading
program at the elementary level in both special education and the general educatlon setting to reduce special
aducatlon referrals as a means to address RT!

Created menu of professional development for both regular education and special education teachers resulting In
Increased inclusion in the classroom and reduced referrals

Produced study skills curriculum for the secondary level

eat as stakeholder In development of Massachusetts Distriot Guidelines for Dyslexia and other Learning
Disabilities ‘

‘Trained In Wilson Reading System, Fundations, Project Read, Alphabetic Phonics, and Executive Functlon Skills

RECENT PRESENTATIONS

e

°

Executive Function Skilis: Classroom Activitfes to Train Students

Wayland Public Schools, Wayland, MA February, 2023
Executive Function Skills to Assist Parents at Home

Veritas Christian Academy, Wayland, MA January, 2023
Executive Function Skills for Teaching Assistants, Part It

Wayland Public Schools, Wayland, MA January, 2023
Executive Function Skills in the Classroom for Teaching Assistants

Wayland Public Schools, Wayland, MA August, 2022
Executive Functioning: Post Pandemic In the Montessori Classroom

Kingsley Montessori School, Boston, MA August, 2021
Executive Funetioning: Implications for T eaching and Learning

Massachusetts Secondary School Adminiatrators Association, Franklln, MA, January, 2047
Working with Students with Behavioral issues

Brookline Public Schools Professional Development Consultant, Brookline, MA, December, 2016
Working with Students with Neurological and Emotional Disorders

Mansfield Public Schools Professional Development Consultant. Manstleld, MA, October, 2016
Overview of Disabling Conditions

Wachusett Regional Public Schools Professional Development Consultant, Octoher, 2016
Questioning and Checking for Understanding

Saugus Public Schools Professtonal development, Saugus, MA, September, 2016
Creating inclusive Schools

Massachusetls Association of School Superintendents July, 2017

ELATED EXPERIENCE

Massachuselis Association of Schoo} Superintendents Professtonal Development Committee
Barbara Cataldo 4

«Chair of the Board of Directors for South Shore Educational Collaborative
METCO, Inc. Board of Directors
Created first preschool program tn the country offering [Pads® fo students for instructlonal use
Harvard Graduate School of Education Learning Differences Conference presenter
Guest lecturer at Lesley University and Lasell University
Massachusetts Branch of the International Dyslexia Association presenter
UNDERSTANDING OUR DIFFERENCES Guest speaker on Learning Disabilitles
Massachusetts Branch of the International Dystexla Society Board Member at-large
Masscue Spring Conference, “Engaging the Special Educatlon Learner Through the iPad@®"
Export witness tn Special Education Hearings for Districts and Parents
Guest lecturer at Boston College

ASSACHUSETTS TI TIONS

Administration: Assistant Superintendent/Superintendent, Spectal Educatlon Administrator,
Special Education: Moderate Spectal Needs, N-12
Regular Education: Elementary Education, K-8, Middle School, 5-9, Reading, K-12

aeoeo es eevee e

RHODE ISLAND CERTIFICATION

Administration; Superintendent of Schools, District Level Adininistrator-Special Education

PROFESSIONAL AFFLIATIONS

AASA, The School Superintendents Association
Massachusetts Association for School Superintendents
International Dyslexla Assoclatlon

Massachusetts Administrators for Special Educallon
Natlonal Association of Independent Schools
American Montessori Associaton
Barbara Cataldo &
References

Barbara J, Cataldo, Ed.D.

Apri 11, 2024

One McKinley Square
Boston, MA 02109

Dear Ms, Martin,

Please accapt my credentials for the position of Interim Superintendent of Schools for
the Marblehead Public Schools for the 2024-2025 school year. As an experlenced Interim
central office employee, | have knowledge of the logistics that arlse with being a short-term
employee, The Interim Superintendent must have a proven record of leadership, steering
districts through even the most difficult times, fInanctally, emotionally, and academically by
creating supportive and collaborative cultures,

As aretired Superintendent, ! understand the position requires someone who can
balanee the complexity of demands while providing guidance and assurance to the community.
For the last two years | have accepted roles in two high performing districts, Ilke Marblehead,
afso encountering significant transition due to leadership changes, difficult contract
negotiations, rising costs and expansive Increases In special education. in each district, |
partnered with the new superintendent and offered guidance and support during this post
pandomic phase while ensuring a positive culture. The most Important facet of this work has
been to listen to the concerns and needs of the educators and the community and make myself
avallabla to support and direct the work of the strategic plan.

| recognize the extraordinary challenges facing many districts. In the fast three years,
districts have expetlenced unprecedented rising costs due to the soctal/emotional needs of
students, The conclusion of the ESSER Funds has resulted In changes In staff number's and
reductions {n materlals, Partnering with the Schoo! Committee and collaborating with stake
holders builds the strong bonds necessary to move a district forward, | have had the
opportunity to reflect on the Marblehead Public Schoots FY25 budget and recognize similar
trends to what } experienced last year in Wayland and this year in Hingham. | have decided |
would like to return to the role of Superintendent offering my skill set that will support the
entire cornmunity. ! belleve my strong relatlonship bullding skills, knowledge of high
performing districts, and abflity to bulld capacity will allow me to suppart the work for the
2024-2025 school year.

Cordially,

Chtebg

Barbara J. Cataldo, Ed.D.
WAYLAND* PUBLIC * SCHOOLS

Novoimber 18, 2022

To Who It May Concorn:

J am writing to recommend Dr, Barbara Cataldo for the position of Superintendent of Schools in your District, She
is atticulate, hard-working and at extremely knowledgeable professional in our field.

Dy, Cataldo is a passionate leader whto collaborates with faculty and staff on specific instructional strategies,
special education and aroas in nocd of systematic support, Her knowledge and insight can help guide any
conversation, Hor spectal education knowledge is far and away her strongest aszet, Whether it is loading [EP
mectings or holding staff accountable for service and delivery, cquily and rigor of Instruction necessary for every
child, Dr. Cataldo is second to none.

Dr. Cataldo has been working with me as the Direotar of Special Kducation for the Wayland Public Schools for the
past year, She worked tirelessly to set high expectations for all students and to ensure thut all the Special Rducation
regulations are aligned with State guidetines. Sho implemented the new Special Education handbook and was
instrumental in the implementation of our Educational Team Leader model (BTL), to name a few. Dr. Cataldo is a
constant professional with a deep understanding of best practices, policiss and procedures and a valued member of
my Superintendent Leadership Team,

Phe ethical and moral dimensions of hor leadership are without parallel, and without hesitation | recommend Dr,
Barbara Cataldo for the Suporlntondency in your distrlet with confidence resorved for anly the very best,

If you have any questions ot would like to discuss flirther please feel free to reach aut to me.

Sincorcly,

WAVLAND’PUBLIC"SCHOOL

. 1

March 3, 2028

To Whom It Might Concern,

Dr, Barbara Cataldo has served as the Wayland Public Schools interim Director of Special Education
since last summer when | joined the cantral office staff. She has been rasponsible for an array of
projects designed to improve the functioning of the department. Upon her arrival, the Spectal:
Education department had not had a regular director for six months. Durlng this time the
Superintendent of Schools served In dual roles trying to maintain order. When Dy, Cataldo arrived she
quickly assessed the needs of the district during the summer and began the arduous task of
Implementing a structure that would restore order to the department. .

Beginning with the summer, Dr, Cataldo promptly understood that the budget was strained due to an
unexpected number of special aducation student departures elther by the district or through unilateral
placements. She has spent the year working In conjunction with myself trying to maintain order for
both this year and next year. Throughout the many meetings and explanations asked of her, she has
always offered solutions, even the mast complex problems.

Dr. Cataldo is a consummate professional always making positive contributions In meetings. She excels
as a collaborator, is passionate about public schools and takes a personal Interest In the students and
familles she works with. She can recognize both the big picture and the details and axcels as a problem
solver. Dr, Cataldo Js able to draw constituents together and work for a common resolution. One
exarnple of this (s har ability to bulld programs that are hoth effective and serve as a cost saving
mechanisin for the district. She Is able to look at problems from multiple angles In order to find
answers. Additlonally, Dr. Cataldo has put to use many of the skills she utilized as a Superintendent
offering advice to the current Superintendent, The suggestions are reflective of where this district Is In
its process and offers a glimpse of where It will ga. She remalns calm In even the most difficult

situations and shows respect for all constituents.

Dr. Cataldo shows empathy, compassion, respect, and an unending desire to create an equitable
Jearning environment for all students, She listens and reflects before offering suggestions and takes
Into consideration multiple viewpolnts before making a final declston. She has demonstrated
repeatedly that sha Is a competent leader, Because she Is serving In a one-year Interim position, she ts
the Ideal candidate for contributing to districts In Massachusetts in this manner but also has the ability
to serva long-term. Even now, she fs creating a long-term plan for che next permanent Director to
assist them with moving forward, It has been a pleasure working with Dr. Cataldo,

d

Barbara J, Cataldo, Ed.D,

STRENGTHS

7 epee ee ees

Expart Interpersonal, negotiatlon, and team building skills

Create School Cultures designed for all learners

Strategic and collaborative educational leader

Proven leadership for Instructlonal improvement

Developmental currlculum development, aligninent and assessment
Persuasive communicator with parents and facully

Student-focused neads analysis and Improved performance
Strategic planning and organizational restructuring

EDUGATION

Northeastern University Boston, MA
Ed.D In Educational Leadership

Harvard University Cambridge, MA
Masters of Education

Wheaton College Norton, MA
Bachelor of Arts

ADMINISTRATIVE EXPERIENCE

Interim Executive Director of Student Services Hingham, MA
Hingham Public Schools

e

aeon em oe

Create system-wide change post pandemic Issues

Support the department and coordinate efforts with new Strategic Plan

Responsible for working with all Principals to ensure fagal mandates met In all buildings

Overhaul system of programming Prelt-High Schoo!

Instllute procedures and procasses In order to callbrate services district-wide

Work with families to Instill a sense of trust

Advised Superintendent on next steps on Student Service toplcs as well as other areas as requested
Responsible for reorganization of Student Services Department

Interim Director of Spacial Education
Wayland Pubtle Schools Wayland, MA

e

.
a
°
.
.

Create an organizational structure far the Spectal Education Department

Design programs to assist students with spacial neads to remain Ih the community
Wrote first handbook for Special Education Department for the district

Advised the Superintendent on budgetary lems

Realign Team Leader structure In order to ensure fidelity

Responsible for Circull Breaker, IDEA Grant, METCO grant, etc.

Director of Studant Support
The Kingsley Montessor! Schoo} Boston, MA

oer eo eo

Oversee all dally operations of Student Support
Introduced recovery plan for students post remote learning
Created reading plan for unified multisensory teaching
Collaborated with all classroom teams guiding teaching
Responsible for directing SEL support for students
Barbara Cataldo 2

Director of the Boston College Campus School

BOSTON COLLEGE Newton, MA
¢ Reallgned professional development training program

Established mentoring program for new teachers

Created new Transition Learning Center for students ages 16-24

Awarded $20,000 grant from Joy In Blue Foundation to build assistive technology

Created School Culture Program and Introduced leadership opportunity for teachers enrolled in
universily leadership program

eee

Superintendent of Schools
COHASSET PUBLIC SCHOOLS Cohasset, MA

Manage elghteen-million-dollar budget

Created technology plan with shared resources fo reduce overhead

Oversaw reorganization of leadership team

Produced {wo Strategic Plans

Bullt first collaborative relationship arnong all town departments In two decades
Fortified K-12 curriculum alignment with common care standards

Responsible for raising all schools to Level { within DESE designation

oor ee ee

Assistant Superintendent for Pupil Personnel Services
MILFORD PUBLIC SCHOOLS Milford, MA

Responsible for multimillion dollar budget and cost containment

Created system-wide professional development opportunities In curriculum and instructton
Assisted elementary principals in reorganization to enhance RTI Implementation

Worked fn conjunction with curriculum supervisors to address AYP

Created first preschool program In the country offering IPads® to students for Instructional use
Advised the Superintendent on currlculum, special education, and leadership Initiatives

ewe eee

Director of Special Education
ARLINGTON PUBLIC SCHOOLS Arlington, MA

Provided Instructional leadership resulting In improved student achievement
Developed Incluslonary programs in all schools

Managed multl-milllon-dollar budget

Served as advisor to superintendent In curriculum and special education matters
Conducted interdeparlmental reading tratning at the elementary level

Speclal Needs Coordinator
CAMBRIDGE PUBLIC SCHOOLS Cambridge, MA

Developed professional development opportunities for ail staff

Served on the literacy committee of CPS and Harvard GSE

Responsible for the Implementation of technology across the district

Served on Instructional Council providing leadership for teaching and learning
Created and oversaw professional development for co-teaching at the secondary level
Responsible for grant writing

ee eeneen

ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCE

Reading Specialist
DEDHAM COUNTRY DAY SCHOOL Dedham, MA

Educational Consultant
Educational Solutions Needham, MA
Barbara Calaldo 3
Interim Director of Student Services

SUDBURY PUBLIC SCHOOLS Sudbury, MA
interim Assistant Director of Student Services

WESTON PUBLIC SCHOOLS Weston, MA
Reading Specialist

SHERBORN PUBLIC SCHOOLS Sherborn, MA
Co-Teacher of the Learning Program

NEWTON PUBLIC SCHOOLS Newton, MA
Special Education Instructor

FRAMINGHAM PUBLIG SCHOOLS Framingham, MA

TABLE ACCO! IS TS

Created a sustainable technology plan for the district that entalls a full rollout to students over two years
Established RTI program to assist with enhancing classroom experience for struggling learners
Saved more than one million dollars from special education budget by restructuring services and creating
programs {o reduce out of district participation

» Servad as expert witness for Public Schools In special education cases

* Worked In collaboration with the Reading Coordinator/principal, the system instituted a structured reading
program at the elementary level In both special education and the general education setting to reduce special
education referrals as a means lo address RTI

« Created menu of professional development for both regular education and special education teachers resulling In
Increased Inclusion In the classroom and reduced referrals
Produced study skills curriculum for the secondary level
phosar as stakeholder In development of Massachusetts District Guidelines for Dyslexta and other Learning
Disabilittes ‘

¢  Tralned in Wilson Reading System, Fundations, Project Read, Alphabetic Phonics, and Executive Function Sklils

RECENT PRESENTATIONS
« Executive Function Skilis: Classroom Activities to Train Students

Wayland Public Schools, Wayland, MA February, 2023
« Executive Function Skills to Assist Parents at Home

Veritas Christian Academy, Wayland, MA January, 2023
« Executive Function Skills for Teaching Assistants, Part it

Wayland Public Schools, Wayland, MA January, 2023
« Executive Function Skills in the Classroom for Teaching Assistants

Wayland Public Schools, Wayland, MA August, 2022
* Executive Functioning: Post Pandemic in the Montessori Classroom

Kingsley Montessori School, Boston, MA August, 2021
« Executive Functioning: Implications for Teaching and Learning

Massachusetts Secondary School Administrators Association, Franktin, MA, January, 2017
« Working with Students with Behavioral issues

Brookline Public Schools Professional Development Consultant, Brookline, MA, December, 2016
* Working with Students with Neurological and Emotional Disorders

Mansfield Publlc Schools Professional Development Consultant. Mansfield, MA, October, 2016
e Overview of Disabling Conditions

Wachusett Reglonal Public Schools Professional Development Consultant, Ootober, 2016
* Questloning and Checking for Understanding

Saugus Public Schools Professional development, Saugus, MA, September, 2016
¢ Creating inclusive Schools

Massachusetts Assoclation of Schoo! Superintendents July, 2017

RELATED EXPERIENCE

+ Massachusetts Assocation of School Superintendents Professional Development Committee
Barbara Cataldo 4

eo e eee eo ee

°

Chalr of the Board of Directors for South Shore Educational Collaborative

METCO, Inc. Board of Directors

Created first preschool program in the country offering IPads@ to students for Instructional use
Harvard Graduate School of Education Learning Differences Conference presenter

Guest lecturer at Lesley University and Lasell University

Massachusetis Branch of the International Dyslexta Assoclatlon presenter
UNDERSTANDING OUR DIFFERENCES Guest speaker on Learning Disabilities
Massachusetts Branch of the Internatlonal Dyslexia Soclaty Board Member ai-large
Masscue Spring Conference, “Engaging the Special Education Learner Through the [Pad@"
Expert witness in Special Education Hearings for Districts and Parents

Guest lecturer al Boston College

MASSACHUSETTS CE ICATIONS

Administration: Assistant Superintendent/Superintendent, Special Education Administrator,
Spectal Education: Moderate Special Needs, N-12
Regular Education: Elementary Education, 8, Middle School, 5-9, Reading, K-12

RHODE ISLAND CERTIFICATIONS

Administration: Superintendent of Schools, District Level Administrator-Speclal Education

PROFESSIONAL AFFLIATIONS

AASA, The School Superintendents Assoclation
Massachusetts Association for School Superintendents
International Dyslexia Assoclation

Massachusetts Administrators for Special Education
National Assoclation of Independent Schools
American Montessorl Association
David L. Thomson, Ed.D.

Objective

To obtain a position that will maximize my experience in school leadership to improve district
processes, increase student achievement, and excellence in our schools,

Employment _
2017- Prasent Norwood Public Schools, Norwood Massachusetts
Superintendent of Schools
2014 -2017 Blackstone Millville Regional School District
Assistant Superintendent for Curviculim, Assessinent, Technology, and ELL :
2007 - 2014 Raynham Middle School, Raynham, Massachusetts
Princtpal

Curriculum Coordinator for Math grades 5-8
Distrlet Harassment Officer

2004 — 2007 Qualters Middle Schoul, Mansfeld, Massachusetts
Principal
2004 — 2007 Massachusetts Department of Education

Panelist

Underpertoriming School Review Panelist: worked with other panelists to
determine If state intervention was needed to initiate student MCAS
improvement, Analyzed school data, reviewed school improvement plan,
canducied interviews, observed teuchers, and deliberated with other panelists,

2000 ~- 2004 Duxbury Middle School, Duxbury, Massachusetts
Assistant Principal

1994 - 2000 John J. Ahern Middle Schaol, Foxborough, MA
Selence and Pre-Algebra Teacher
Adintatstrative internship 1999 — 2000

1989-1994 Venoyini Academy, Worcester, MA
Lead Sclence Teacher
David L. Thomson, Ed.D.

Summers Robsham Scout Reservation, B.S,A, Bolfon, MA
1993-2006 Camp Director
1989 Program Director

1985-1988 — Aquaties Director
1982-1984 Aquatics Staff

Enucation

2010 — 2013 Northeastern University, Boston, Massachusetts
Doctoral Program in Educational Leadership GPA 3.84

1993 ~ 2000 Framingham State College, Framingham, Massachusetts
Maaters in Educational Leadership GPA 3,89

Certifiention

Massachusetts Department of Education Certitlcate Number:
» Superintendent/Assistant Superintendent All Levels
« Principal/Assistant Principal Grades 5-9 and Grades 9 — 12

Rhode Island Department of Blementary and Secondary Rducation Number | |
«© Superintendent of Schoois
David L. Thomson, Ed.D.

Awards aud Professional Activities

¢ Massachusetts Middle School Principal of the Year (2010)

Principal Level One School, Raynham Middle School (2012, 2013)

National Association of Secondary Schoo! Principals’ (NASSP), Executive Boatd Member
2011-2015

« President, Massachusetts Secondary School Administrators Association (MSSAA) 2010;
Vice President and Executive Board Member (2005 ~- 2015)

. © Bagle Scout, Boy Scouts of America

* Outstanding Bagle Scout, Mayflower Council, BSA

 Sifver Beaver Award, BSA — highest award given to a council volunteer

¢ NAESP/NASSP Teacher Evaluation Committee

Massachusetts Association of School Superintendents (MASS) Summer Bxecutive Institute
presenter (DIB), Member of the Professional Development Committees

Massachusetts Secondary School Administrators’ Association (MSSAA) Summer

- Convention Presenter (Bducational Loadership for‘l'eacher Leamming and Improvement,
Advisory Programs, Professional Learning Communities, Middle Level Math)

® Who's Who in America 2020

¢ Association for Superviston and Cunloulum Development (ASCD) Member (since 2002).

¢ Learning First Alliance National Summit Participant (March 2007), Worked with other’.
invited educational leaders in a nation-wide effort to develop a vision for public schools in
the 21" century,

@ Completed coursework in Obyerving and Analyzing Teaching (OATS) and The Skilffid
Leader through Research for Bettor Teaching

¢ Served as District Restraint Trainer (ANV certified)

* Completed coursowork in Understanding by Design and Universal Design for Learning

© Worcester State University and American Intemational College — Adjunct Profeagor
David L. Thomson, Ed.D.

Highlights

Norwood Public Schools 2017 — Present
Superintendent of Schools

* Oversee entire school district operation of 3,500 students, 477 employees and a 54-million-
dollar Budget

¢ Faollitated the development and implementation of a five-year strategic plan and the
development of the yearly gation plans, and progress monitoring and reporting to the
community

¢ Implemented Curriculum and Instructional improvements, including, expanded AP,
career pathways programs, response fo intervention and progress monitoring, trauma

- informed instruction, and culturally response instractional practices

© Worked closely with the School Commitiee to set and achieve yearly district goals aligned
with the strategic plan

© Passed a property tax increase campaign (Operational Override) that was the largest in the |
state and passed by 75%

_ s @ Passed a debt exclusion override to build a new 158-million-dollar middle school

* Oversee building project now in the construction phase

e Orchestrated significant investment in curriculum and instructional methodology

« Brought Assessment and intervention systems to the Norwood Public Schools».

» Conducted an Equity Audit of the district and implemented Equity Goals into the strategic
plen

Implemented culturally responsive teaching practices encalled in REDI Leadership tor DET
program

¢ Facilitated technology integration and one to one computing grades in one to twelve

¢ Revised budget process for transparency and clarity to engage stakeholder's and build trust
and support in the community

¢ Rebuilt administrative team on core belief of teamwork, collaboration, and support for the
mission of the district

¢ Blue Ribbon School Prescott Elementary 2020

* Mentored Massacimsetts State High School Principal of the Year 2022

Blackstone Millville Reglonal School District 2014 - 2017
Assistant Superintendent for Curriculum, Assessment, and Technology, ELL Director
© Oversee district wide curciculuin improvement including mapping, development using
Understanding by Design, implementation of new Math programs, and integration of
technology into instruction
« Oversee district ELL Programming and staffing
¢ District budget development including planning, prioritizing, presenting 0 school
committee, town officials, and town meeting
® Development of District Determined Measures, teacher evaluation process, and
professional development
© Supervise all district geants and fedoral programs
¢ Supervise, mentor, and evaluate all principals
David L. Thomson, Ed.D.

# Mentored Massachusetts Middle School Principal of tho Year 2016
Collaborate with the Superintendent in the oversight of district operations, facilities, and
wnion negotiations

Raynham Middle School, Raynham, Massachusetts 2007 ~2014
Principal

* Massachusetts Middle School Principal of the year 2010, NASSP Executive Board
Member 201 [+15 :

« Level One School 2012, 2013

Administration
¢ Member of the Distriot Strategic Planning Committee, Superintendent Search Committee,
Curriculum Development committee, District Wide Schoo! safety committee, Professional
Development Committee, and the Textbook Review Cominittee. eta, ated
+ District Harassment Officer 2008 - 2014
Professional Development

¢ Develop teacher leaders to assist in the educational leadership of the school and facilitate
the implementation of school and district initiatives.

e Implemented Professional Learning Communities that examine student work through:
common assessments and benchmarks, in forming the implementation of instructional
stralegies and differentiated instruction to ensure students’ aondomic success,

© Developed intervention process for underperforming students including tier one and two
intervention stratogies.

« Provide Leadership in implementing effective best practices to assure maximum leaming
for the 21" century, Revised the master schedule to maximize time on learning, and. _
increased collaboration between staff to facilitate school improvement, increase
technology uso, and student engagement.

* Lead staff development in the areas of differentiated instruction, Undexstanding by
Design, common assessments, writing for open response questions, and examining
student work,

Curriculum Oversight

« Assist the leadership of the curriculum department through facilitating professional
development, conducting curriculum meetings and representing the district at area meetings,

¢ Oversea the middle school math curriculum and implementation of new materials, including ~
adoption, professional development, and assessment of progress.

© Develop a yearly comprehensive, school-wide MCAS improvement plan based on the
otitical review of MCAS data, established goals, and benchmarks for school improvement,

« Develop school-wide benchmarks fo measute student progress and inform improvement
planning.

Qualters Middle School, Mansfield, Massachusetts 2004 ~ 2007
Principal
» Provide Educational Leadership for a large (1220 student) suburban middle school,
Created a culture of Professional Learning Communities, common assessments, data
informed instructional practices, supervise curriculum development (Understanding by
David L. Thomson, Ed.D.

Design) and alignment to State standards, established vision for Mathematics Insteuction
based on training in Lenses on Lenmning program.

* Batablished a teacher committee for professional development, curriculum development and
review oycle, and worked with the department chairs collaboratively in yearly budget
preparation.

Duxbury Middle Sehoo!, Duxbury, Massachusetts
2000 ~ 2004
Assistant Principal
« Chaired subcommittees of the school transition team

John J. Ahern Middle School, Foxborough, MA £994 - 2000
Science and Pre-Algebra Teacher
¢ Taught seventh grade Life Science, General Science, and Pre-Algebra, Member of
cutriculum development
team, Implemented the state Science and Technology frameworks, Peer tutor for other
teachers, incorporating computer technology into their classes. :
© Administrative internship 1999 ~ 2000
» Coordinated furniture purchasing for new middle school, asalsted with student discipline,
facilitated peer supervision by tenchers, coordinated move into new school building, and
developed team teacher schedules for the next school year. :

Venerini Academy, Worcester, MA 1989-1994
Lead Science Teacher
Taught Life Science, Physical Science, Barth Science, and Mathematics; coordinated the
school’s overall science program, which involved facilitating and suggesting
demonstrations, supplying materials, organizing science fairs and acting as a resource on
science teaching techniques for other teachers.

Robsham Scout Reservation, B.S.A, Bolton, MA 1995 — 2000
Summots
Camp Director
e Administered the entire camp operation, which involves; hiring, training, and supervising
staff; budget planning and implementation; ensuring safe programs; and compliance with
health and safety standards.
David L. Thomson, Ed.D.

References

David L. Thomson, Ed.D.

March 27, 2024

Selection Committee,

I ain writing in response to yout posting for the Interim Superintendent of the Marblehead Public
Schools, I Have served as the Norwood Superintendent for six and a half years. 1 possess the
experience attd breadth of knowledge to advance the organizational offectivoness of the district,
improve student achievement, and develop curriculum and instruction that advances the
Marblehead Public Schools.

Thave invaluable oxperience as a Superintendent who develops a cohesive team focused on
student achiovement and effective and transparent governance that builds confidence and trust in
the community. My core valuca are focused on educating the whole child in a sate aud nurturing
environment. My values manifest themselves in an enduring focus on the classroom and our
student's oxperience and access to high-quality learning opportunities, As Superintendent, I have
fed work in establishing academic opportunities focusing on equity to meet all learners, including
expanding our Advance Placement opportunities and ered support systemy and creating career
pathway programming that engages students and facilitates deeper learning in future areas of
study and work.

My belief in shared leadership has manifested in team-based decision-making focused on the
distelct's goals, Through this approach, we have improved finanelal processes, transparency with
the community, and a comprehensive strategic plan focused on multiple aspects of district
improvement, | practice an inclusive and highly communicative governance style that
continually incorporates school committee members, community members, teachers, staff, and
parents working together to improve our schools and district, Iam a tireless, dedicated,
motivated leader who keeps the students’ best interests at heart while articulating the needs of
my learners, staff, and district.

Although 1 carned a doctorate in Educational Leadership from Northeastern University and was
nnmed the 2010 Massachusetts Middle School Principal of the Yea, I continue to lear and
improve through professional development and mentoring new school leaders. I strongly believe
in the value of being a lifelong learner and setting an example for others,

If you feel that my resume refleots your expectations for this position, 1 would appreciate the
favor of an interview. Thank you for your time and consideration.

Sincerely,

David L. Thomson
September 2023

To Whom It May Concern,

| had the privilege of serving an the Norwood School Committee during a transformative period when
| had the opportunity to collaborate closely with our Superintendent, Dr. David Thomeacn. Dr.
Thomson, In his role ae Superintendent, exhibited outstanding communication skiils and displayed
empathetic leadership quaiittes during a period of considerable challanges within our district. His
leadership was a tremendous asset to our diverse educational communily, comprising a preschool,
five alamentary schools, a middle school, and a high school,

Upon assuming offfce in 2018, our district was confronted with a daunting budget deficit, Unilke
many other towne In Massachusetts, Norwood had never passed a budgetary override. Responding
fo the request of the school committees, Dr. Thomson meticulously developed not one but {wo
comprehensive budgets. The first budget, a continuation budget, entalled severe staff reductions and
eliminating all co-curricular activities deamed necessary to maintain our academic accreditation,
Given the mandate for balanced school budgets, we reluctantly approved this budget, a decision
marked by emotional anguish as we considered the staff members facing layoffs and tha lasting
impact on our students resulting from these outs,

The second budget presented a hopeftl viston, advocating for a modest budget override. This
override, If approved, would not only preserve our experienced staff but also propef our district
forward after years of stagnation. It promised to provide Chromebooks for avery student, refrestt the
curriculum, and offer ample adjustment counselors to address the social and emotional needs of our
students, Dr, Thomsen aatutely recognized these essential needs and crafted a compelling plan,
articulating why additional resources were Imperative to confront our challenges successfully.

Dr. Thomson dedicated considerable time aflending finance meetings, budget dellberations, and
selectmen meetings to convey this vislon for our district's future, His responses to [Inquiries were
marked by expertise and unwavering patience, Finally, a ballot measure for the budget override was
approved by Town Meating, with the vote schaduled for Juna 3rd, 2019. The override passed by an
overwhelming margin of 3 to 1, an unprecedented achievement In Norwood’s history,
The override bestowed upon aur district the flexibilily to hire staff according to our strategic plan,
aparing us from the perpetual task of searching for Items to cut when mandated staffing was
naceasary. It also empowered us to renegotiate unlon agreements that had remained unaltered for
extended perlods before Dr. Thomson's tenure. Dr. Thomson and | successfully negotiated four
contracts with our unton partners, | found Dr. Thomson's negotiallon style te be collaborative,
empathetic, and posttive while simultaneously fulfilllag his fiduclary obligations to the town and
aligning with the objectives establishad by our Schoo! Cammiliee.

During this pertod, Dr. Thomson demonstrated unwavering commitment to our Middle Schoo!
Bullding Committee, assuming responeibllily for budgeting, compiling, and presenting alt necessary
Information to tha Massachusetts School Bullding Authority and the town. Remarkably, a significant
portion of this work was carrled out during the challenging backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic. In
2022, following the conclusion of my ferm, thanks In large part to Dr, Thomson's dedication, Town
Meeting voted 153-1 in favor of a debt exclusion override, paving the way for the construction of our
new middie school. .

As previously mentioned, we were fortunate to have Dr. Thomson as our Superintendent during the
COVID-19 pandemic. His pragmatic approach to maintaining full engagement In our district allowed
us to navigate the transition to online learning and remote instruction effectively. Additionally, ha
collaborated closely with our food services department to ensure that meals were provided to
students and farnilies in need,

1 am honored that Dr, Thomson has entrusted me with the task of composing this letter of
recommendation. His tenure In Norwood coincided with unprecedented challenges, and he not only
surmounted these obstacles but flourished amidst them. He played an indispensable role In the
advancements we achteved in staffing, currloulum development, student achievement, Information
technology, and infrastructure,

Should you wish lo discuss any specific details regarding my collaboration with Dr. Thomson, please
do not hesitate fe contact me via text, phone, or email.

September, 2023
To whom It may concern,

it ls my honor and pleasure to write this letter of recommendation for Dave Thomson,
currently the Superintendent of Schools In Norwood, Massachusetts, | have known
Dave for over 15 years; we first served together as Board Members for the
Massachusetts School Administrators’ Assoolation and have remalned In contact
through the years. After | retired as a Principal in 2020 Dave hired me In Norwood, first
as a Program Manager, overseaing aspeots of a middle school bullding project, and
then as the District's firat Director of Strategic Initiatives. | have also done some policy
and handbook work for the schools recently,

Dave's wealth of experiences in education make him a premier candidate for any
executive position within your District or organization. From teacher to principal to
Superintendent Dave has graciously moved through the ranks. His tenure at Norwood
defies the state and national average for longevity of superintendents. oo

While in Norwood | got a gilmpse into the world of the Superintandent’s offloe and scope
of responsibilities and watched with respect and admiration as Dave deftly navigated
the “buckets” of student learning, budgets, teacher contracts, local politios, a Covid
response and more. Dave's accomplishments In Norwood are too numerous to mention
but | would be remiss if { didn't highlight a few.

Under Dave's leadership the School District and Town are currently building a new
middle school that is scheduled to open In the Fall of 2026, Dave was instrumental in
building consensus and supporting the District and Town through the rigorous and
arduous MSBA process, Once opened, the middle school will see a new grade
configuration, transitioning from a grades 6-8 school to a grades 6-8 school. Dave's
work in shepherding these changes through a lengthy process with the School
Committee, parents, and school personnel deserves recognition,

Norwood's response to the pandemic was also noteworthy, With clarity and support the
Norwood Public Schools were able to begin online learning almost immediately. They
then made a smooth transition to blended learning and then finally committed to an in
person learning model before most Districts responded in kind. Dave's ability to lead
the work with all constituencies to ensure that student and staff safety was of paramount
Importance while providing an accessible education to all students Is commendable.
Dave has also deftly rebullt his administrative team, replacing @ retiring Assistant
Superintendent who had been with the Distriot for many years, and advocating for and
securing a second Assistant Superintendent position, Has has hirad several new
school principals and @ Budget Director who all still remain with the District. He also
hired a new High Schoo! Prinalpal, who became Prinalpal of the Yeer for Massachusettes
two years ago.

Dave is adapt at listening to others, gathering data, and making sure whatever decision
Is made Is goad for students first, He understands people and thelr needs. He raponds
accordingly.

Hook forward to seeing what Dave does next.

Please do not hesitate to contact me with any questions or concerns.

May
To Whom It May Condart:

{am writing this latter of reference for Or, David (Dave) L. Thomson whom | had the
pleasure to work with for six yeare (2017-2023) as his Assistant Superintendent for
Curriculum, tnatruction, and Assesament for the Nonwood Publis Schools In Norwood,
Massachusetts,

Ag his hesume indicates, Dave has worked for many years ag-a teacher, school
principal, and as an Assistant Superintandent for Curriculum, anid this experience has
givan him @ solid foundation for baing an effadtive Suparintendant, Dave knows what {t
takes lo run an effactive school systenl that worke for students, Ha always puls.atudents
fitat and 1s a proponsiit of innovation. ,

Dave's biggest achievement In my apinion was strongly advocallng and ratlying support
for Nonwood's first Prop 2 4 operational override in 2019. This effort took a huge
amount of wark with the School Commitee, Town's governing boards (Selectmen, Fin
Com, etc) and the community a8 a whole to bulld trast In the school systam and
demonatrate the overwhelming need for-an override. Thaike to Dave's efforts, the
override passed overwhelmingly and the school system established a curriculum
ranewal cyele that had basn put on Mold tor many years; and new programs were
implemented fn math, ELA, science, history, and SEL. The override alsa gave our
faculty @ huge morale boost after years of drastic budget cutting.

Another achlevement ef Dave's [s his ability ta hire excellent new administrators: savaral
principals, Business Manager, Student Services Direntor, three elementery cuniculum
coordinaters, and an EL Director. Together we built a lap-notch administrative team and
launched a comprehensive district-wide equity audit that is naw an integral part of the
district's strategic plan. Having hited good people and having established a collegial
rapport with his eam, Dave datagates eifectivaly, and iher truats tham to do what they
do best. He always supportad my work and the Ideas | broughtto bie table.

Than there was COVIDI Dave effectively manaygad the sched! systeni through the awlul
COVID years (2020-22) and helped put In place a Remote Leaming Academy that
snabled us to Keep all of our students engaged InJeariing outgide af school. The
pandemic again required Dave to work collaboratively with Town government and the
Health Department to put s host of swtety meazures in place (vaccination, masking, and
social distancing rules and regulations). Fortunately, Norwood had vary few opponenta
to these measures, and Dave worked effectivaly with the. Bchool Committes to manage’
them, Oave is a good problem-eolver and has-supported our Student Services Director
and principals. through many. challenging circumstances. over the yeara in dealing with
varlouoa legal, disciplinary, and farnily Issues. He has worked hard to Keep the School
Cortimities informed about critical matters,

In closing, Dave always has a pleasant digopsition In working with others and often uses
humor to ease tensions. ] have enjoyed working with Dave and would highly
recommend him for another superiniondanay. Pleaga fea! frae to call me at
if you would tke to diseues anything tuner.

Sincerely,

April 11, 2024

Julia Ferreira

Marblehead Public Schools
Marblehead, MA 01945
ferreira,julia@marbleheadschools.org

RE: Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations
Dear Assistant Superintendent Ferreira,

As an ambitious professional with collaboration proficiency
and extensive Finance and Operations experience, | was
thrilled to learn about the Marblehead Public School
Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations position. |
was compelled to contact you with my interest asit would a
career highlight to be considered for such an opportunity with
the Marblehead Public Schools. | believe that my professional
background and industrialist drive make me an ideal
candidate to fill this position.

| thrive in high-pressure and fast-paced situations, striving for
positive results by applying my strategic planning_and
operations design and implementation abilities. Further, |
possess expertise in relationship building and acumen for
maximizing performance and _ inspiring colleagues. | am able
to visualize success and identify unconventional yet highly
effective strategies for achieving it.

| have skilfully balanced organizational objectives and
productive relationships, strategizing and recommending ways in
which to achieve and maintain a competitive business edge.
My communication and decision-making talents have
supported my professional growth.

Enclosed, please find my resume for your review. | will look
forward to hearing from you in the near future so we can
discuss the next step in your hiring process. In closing,
thank you for your fime and consideration of my
candidacy.

Sincerely,
Michael Pfifferling
Michael
Pfifferling

Assistant Superintendent Of
Finance And Operations

Professional individual with strong relationship
building skills, finance, operations and
leadership. With over 30 years of professional
experience, successfully led sales, finance and
operations groups. Greatest strength is ability to
build teams and lead those teams through core
values, respect, and appreciation. Seasoned
Finance and Operations Administrator bringing
demonstrated safety management and
performance optimization skills gained during
experience in educational and business settings.
Deliver in-depth training and mentoring to help
each improve abilities and advance work
quality. Dependable, hardworking and level-
headed in addressing diverse problems.

Contact Se Work History
Address 2019-08 - Assistant Superintendent Finance
Groveland, MA 01834 Current & Operations
Phone Haverhill Public Schools, Haverhill, MA
| ® Reporting to Superintendent of Schools,
E-mail oversee all aspects of:
PE <on | Budget
Twitter } Payroll
@MikePfiff Information Technology

: Facilities - In House, Contractors and

. Building Projects
Skills Oo Custodial Services
servi
Budget creation Food . eric’
Security

Safety and security : Transportation
procedures

: 2012-10 - i ini
Academic administration ore te School Business Administrator

School event coordination i
Standards of excellence

Staff Development

Wakefield Public Schools, Wakefield, MA

e Reporting to Superintendent of Schools,
oversee all aspects of:
Budget
Payroll
Process improvements
Educational staff supervision
Community Relations

Policy and procedure
adherence

Codes of conduct

Relationship building and
networking

}
i
{

P

1999-10 -
2012-09

Education

2022-01 -
2024-05

1978-09 -
2020-05

2019-09 -
2022-06

Information Technology
Facilities

Custodial

Food Service

Security

Transportation

District Manager

RISO Inc, Danvers, MA

e Managed Northern United States Sales
ferritory supporting independent
dealers with marketing, technology and
sales support of document
management solutions

e Directly responsible for P&L for district

e 2 years as Branch Sales Manager for
Boston market

e 3 years of experience in Product
Marketing department

e 3 years of Sales Administration / dealer
contracts department

e 2 years in Customer Service department

Master's degree: Educational
Leadership

Worcester Stafe University - Worcester, MA

Bachelor's degree: Business
Management

Southern New Hampshire University -
Manchester, NH

Assistant Superintendent
Leadership Seminars (i, lf And Ill

Massachusetts Association of School
Superintendent - Massachusetts
eS Certifications

i 2019-06 Superintendent / Assistant Superintendent
License
2022-06 Assistant Superintendent Leadership Series
2014-04 Massachusetts Certified Public Purchasing

Official ({MCPPO)
Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
\ £1 Phone: (781) 639-314

Dr. Theresa B. McGuinness Ms. Julia Ferreira Ms. Patricia Bell
Interim Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of Interim Director of Student Services
Teaching & Learning

Memorandum
To: Marblehead School Committee
From: Theresa B. McGuinness, Ed.D, Interim Superintendent
RE: Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations, Finalist

Date: May 1, 2024

Staffing Update

The Interim Superintendent is recommending Mr. Michael Pfifferling (resume) as the finalist to the
School Committee for consideration of appointment as Marblehead Public Schools’ Assistant
Superintendent of Finance and Operations for the 2024-2025 school year. Mr. Pfifferling dedicated
the early part of his career to fulfilling roles within the business industry, gaining experience and
insight, which he later applied toward his positions as the leader of finance and operations at the
public school district level. For the last 12 years, Mr. Pfifferling has proven to be an impactful leader
in public school districts (Haverhill and Wakefield), gaining a depth of experience in both town and
city operations. Currently, Mr. Pfifferling holds the role of Assistant Superintendent of Finance and
Operations in the Haverhill Public Schools, overseeing 17 schools with nearly 8,000 students. As one
of his references shared, Mr. Pfifferling has a “wide-breadth of experience, from finance, food
services, transportation, and operations. He is very personable and builds strong working
relationships.”

Mr. Pfifferting earned a Bachelor's degree in Business Management from Southern New Hampshire
University and a Master's degree in Educational Leadership from Worcester State University.
Additionally, he holds all necessary licenses and certification for this position. Mr. Pfifferling has our
strongest recommendation to the School Committee to be appointed Assistant Superintendent of
Finance and Operations.
