DATE POSTED:

Town Clerk Use Only

Dot! JUN -7 AM $255

MEETING NOTICE

POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 30A § 20 Act relative to extending certain COVID-19 measures
adopted during the state of emergency

Marblehead School Committee — Contract Negotiations Sub Committee

Name of Board or Committee

Address: Lucretia and Joseph Brown School — Library at 42 Baldwin Road Marblehead MA 01945

Tuesday June 11% 2024 3:00 pm
Day of Week Month Date Year Time

Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

I. Initial Business
a. Call to Order
b.

II. Motion and vote to meet in executive session pursuant to Mass. General Laws chapter 30A section 21(a) for
the following purposes:
° Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for collective bargaining with the
Marblehead Education Association Unit A, Unit Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals, Unit Permanent
Substitutes and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have a detrimental effect on the
bargaining position of the Committee;
© Purpose (2) to conduct collective bargaining session with the Marblehead Education Association Unit A,
Unit Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals, Unit Permanent Substitutes and Unit Custodians.

Chair’s Statement following roll call vote on the motion:

The Committee will now be meeting in executive session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws chapter
30A section 21(a) for purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for collective
bargaining with the Marblehead Education Association Unit A, Unit Tutors. Unit Paraprofessionals, Unit
Permanent Substitutes and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have a detrimental effect on the
bargaining position of the Committee; and purpose (2) to conduct collective bargaining session with the
Marblehead Education Association Unit Paraprofessionals, Unit Permanent Substitutes and Unit Custodians
with the intent not to return to open session.

Executive Session

Strategy discussion with respect to and in in preparation for collective bargaining with the Marblehead
Education Association Unit A, Unit Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals, Unit Permanent Substitutes and
Unit Custodians. Collective bargaining session with the Marblehead Education Association Unit A,
Unit Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals, Unit Permanent Substitutes and Unit Custodians

THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Chairperson: Sarah Fox
Posted by: Sarah Fox
Date: 6/7/2024
