DATE POSTED:

Town Clerk Use Only

Be eS 7

Amended Agenda

POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 30A § 20 Act relative to extending certain COVID-19 measures
adopted during the state of emergency

Marblehead School Committee

Name of Board or Committee

Address: Marblehead High School — Library at 2 Humphrey St. Marblehead MA 01945

OR

Zoom Conference join via the web link or Dial in

https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/}/99975493631 2pwd=Y 0pH WYM2YitBZXNOU2ZyTk1OMzh4dz09
Meeting ID: 999 7549 3631

Password: 873255

Dial in Phone #1 646 931 3860

Thursday |! June 20th 2024 7:00 pm
Day of Week Month Date Year Time

Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

i, Initial Business
a, Call to Order

b. Committee Re-Organization
c. Commendations
d. Public Comment
e. Student Representative
ll. District Updates - Dr ‘Theresa McGuinnes
a. School Nutrition Program Update (vote)
b. School Improvement Plans -Village, Brown and Glover Schools (vote)
c. Annual Contract Salary Adjustments (vote)

d, Special Education Review Focused Program Review Update
e. Financial Update

IIL, Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills (vote)
b. Approval of Minutes (vote)
c. Recommendation for School Nurse Hire- Maddison Gaieski (vote)

IV. Schoo! Committee Communication and Discussion Items
a. Interim Superintendent Contract (vote)
b. Independent Investigation (vate)
c. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates and discussions

V. Closing Business
a. New Business- School Committee Announcements and Requests
b, Correspondence
VI.. Motion and vote to meet in executive session pursuant to Mass. General Laws chapter 30A section 21(a)
Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for collective bargaining with the
Marblehead Education Association Unit A, Unil Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit
Paraprofessionals, and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have a detrimental effect on
the bargaining position of the Committee with the intent not to return to open session.

Chair’s Statement following roll call vote on the motion:

The Committee will now be meeting in executive session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws
chapter 30A section 21a) for purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for
collective bargaining with the Marblehcad Education Association Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes,
Unit Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals, and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have a
detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the Committee with the intent not to return to open
session.

VIL Executive Session

Strategy discussion with respect to and in in preparation for collective bargaining with the Marbichead
Education Association Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals, and
Unit Custodians.

Adjoummment

Hybrid Meeting Notice: Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person at 2 Humphrey St. Marblehead MA
01945 or by the remote zoom connection provided. Please note that the in-person meeting will not be suspended or
terminated if technological problems interrupt the remote connection.

THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Chairperson: Sarah Fox

Posted by: Lisa Manning
Date: 6/18/2024 __
DATE POSTED: pho babs

Town Clerk Use Only

an ee

MEETING NOTICE

POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 304 § 20 Act relative to extending certain COVID-19 measares
adopted during the state of emergency

Marblehead Schoo! Committee

Name of Board or Committee

Address: Marblehead High School — Library at 2 Humphrey St. Marbichead MA 01945

OR

Zoom Conference join via the web link or Dial in

https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/j/9997549363 |?pwd=Y Op! IWVM2YitBZXNOU2ZyTk1OMzh4dz09
Meeting ID: 999 7549 3631

Password: 873255

Dial in Phone #1 646 931 3860

Thursday June 20th 2024 7:00 pm
Day of Week Month Date Year Time

Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

I. Initial Business

a. Call to Order

b. Committee Re-Organization
ec. Commendations

d. Public Comment

gs

Student Representative

IL. District Updates — Dr Theresa McGuinness

a. School Nutrition Program Update (vote)
b. School Improvement Plans —Village, Brown and Glover Schools (vote)
c. Annual Contract Salary Adjustinents (vote)

d. Special Education Review Focused Program Review Update

I, Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills (vote)

b. Approval of Minutes (vote)
TV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

a, Interim Superintendent Contract (vote)

b. Independent Investigation (vote)

c. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates and discussions

V. Closing Business
a. New Business- School Committee Announcements and Requests
b. Correspondence

VL. Motion and vote to meet in executive session pursuant to Mass. General Laws chapter 30A section 21(a)
Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for collective bargaining with the
Marbichead Education Association Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit
Paraprofessionals, and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have a detrimental effect on
the bargaining position of the Committee with the intent not to return to open session,

Chair’s Statement following roll call vote on the motion:

The Committee will now be meeting in executive session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws
chapter 30A section 21 (a) for purpose (3) fo discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for
collective bargaining with the Marblehead Education Association Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes,
Unit Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals, and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have a
detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the Committee with the intent not to return to open

session.

VII. Executive Session

Strategy discussion with respect to and in in preparation for collective bargaining with the Marblehead

Education Association Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals, and
Unit Custodians.

Adjournment

Hybrid Meeting Notice: Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person at 2 Humphrey St. Marblehead MA
01945 or by the remote zoom connection provided. Please note that the in-person meeting will not be suspended or
terminated if technological problems interrupt the remote connection.

THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Chairperson: Sarah Fox_
Posted by: Sarah Fox __
Date: 0/7/2024
Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-314

Dr. Theresa B. McGuinness Ms. Julia Ferreira Ms. Patricia Bell

Interim Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of Interim Director of Student Services
Teaching & Learning

MEMORANDUM
TO: Marblehead School Committee
FROM: Mary C. DeLai, Interim Director of Finance & Operations
John Costantino, Director of Food Services
Ce: Dr. Theresa Mc Guinness, Superintendent
DATE: June 14, 2024
RE: Request to Approve School Nutrition Operations Specialist Position

On behalf of the School Food Services Department, we are requesting approval to create the position of
School Nutrition Operations Specialist, as described in the attached job description. This position will be
instrumental to providing daily supervision of the food service staff and improving the efficacy and
efficiency of department operations.

As you know, the school nutrition program is one of the most highly regulated of any school operational
programs. Regulations require daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly, and annual monitoring and/or
reporting. Additionally, regular training and professional development is a priority for the department.
Having this position will allow for more opportunities to engage in planning, management training, and
staff development.

The position will be funded from School Nutrition Revolving Fund which has more than sufficient

capacity to absorb this expense.
We thank you for your consideration. Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any questions.

Recommended Motion: Move to approve the creation of the position of School Nutrition Operations
Specialist as outlined by the job description provided by the Director of Food Services.
Marblehead Public Schools
Job Description

Position: School Nutrition Operations Specialist

Position Location: Food Services Department

Classification: District Support Staff, Specialist, Non-Exempt

Work Day/Year: 8 hours per day, 204 days per year

Reports to: Director of Food Services

Supervises: Cafeteria staff

Salary Range: $28.00 - $34.00 per hour (per support staff classification plan)

The School Nutrition Operations Specialist is responsible for overseeing and managing the daily operations of the
school nutrition program. This role involves coordinating and supervising the activities of cafeteria staff, ensuring
compliance with nutrition guidelines and regulations, maintaining food safety standards, and promoting healthy
eating habits among students. The School Nutrition Operations Supervisor plays a crucial role in providing
nutritious meals to students and ensuring the smooth functioning of the school's food service operations.

In collaboration with the Food Service Director, key responsibilities include but are not limited to:

Program Management:

e Assist with oversight of the day-to-day operations of the district nutrition program, including menu
planning, food procurement, preparation, and service,

@ Design and implement standard operating procedures to ensure efficient and effective operations.

@ Assist in monitoring compliance with federal, state, and local regulations related to nutrition and food
safety.

@ Collaborate with schoo! administrators, staff, and parents to address specific dietary needs or concerns of
students.

e Partner with the Director to implement student engagement activities including but not limited to
District-wide surveys and student tastings.

Staff Supervision and Training:
e Train and supervise cafeteria staff to ensure implementation of standard operating procedures, strict
adherence to food safety, and proper utilization of front and back of house systems and/or technology.
@ Coordinate and monitor completion of mandatory training and food safety certifications.
Oversee training of all new hires by managers for their hired job functions and location.
© Provide ongoing training and professional development opportunities to enhance staff knowledge and
skills in nutrition, food safety, and customer service.

Menu Planning and Nutrition:

© Collaborate with the Director to develop and implement menus that meet the nutritional requirements set by
federal and state regulations, while considering student preferences and dietary restrictions.

® Collaborate with the Director and other stakeholders to create well-balanced and appealing menus.

Monitor food quality, portion sizes, and presentation to ensure high standards are maintained.

e Post approved menus, communications, updates, and other marketing materials to school websites and
social media.

@ Educate students, staff, and parents on the importance of healthy eating habits and promote nutrition
education initiatives.

Ordering & Inventory Management
e Ensure cost-effective ordering practices.
Responsible for confirming and approving each manager's weekly orders are submitted on time within the
software system.

Maintain accurate records of inventory and meal counts.

Oversee Food Service Driver and validate all deliveries are received and managed according to

HAACP protocol and provide daily shuttle instructions to ensure product availability at all locations.
Identify opportunities for cost savings and efficiency improvements without compromising on the quality
of meals.

Food Safety and Sanitation:

e@ Ensure compliance with food safety regulations and standards, including proper storage, handling, and
preparation of food.

® Conduct regular inspections of the kitchen and cafeteria facilities to maintain cleanliness and sanitation.

e Implement and enforce health and safety protocols, including allergen management and proper labeling of
food items.

¢ Coordinate with local health departments for inspections and licensing requirements.

Qualifications:

e@ Bachelor's degree in nutrition, food service management, or a related field (preferred).

@ Previous experience in food service management, preferably in a school or institutional setting,

e@ ServSafe Manager certified or certified within 3 months of hire.

@ Certified member of SNA or certified within 6 months of hire.

@ Knowledge of federal and state regulations related to school nutrition programs, food safety, and
sanitation.

@ Strong leadership and supervisory skills, with the ability to motivate and manage a diverse team.

e Exhibits leadership and professionalism among colleagues, school staff, students, and with the public.

e Excellent organizational and time management abilities to handle multiple tasks and meet deadlines.

@ Strong communication skills to collaborate effectively with staff, students, parents, and external
stakeholders.

@ Understanding of nutrition principles and the ability to develop and analyze menus for nutritional
adequacy.

® Demonstrated skill in the use of technology, computers and food service software, proficient skills in MS
Office, Google Drive, and social media.

e Physically able to walk, bend and stand for long periods, lift and carry objects weighing 50 pounds.

EEO Statement

Marblehead Public Schools is an equal opportunity employer. We celebrate diversity and are committed to creating
an inclusive environment for all employees and students. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for
employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, or
protected veteran status and will not be discriminated against on the basis of disability.

Proposed: June 20, 2024
Approved:
Village School

School Improvement Plan

2024-2025

VILLAGE SCHOOL

a

#KeepEachOtherWell

Focus Area Teaching & Learning
District Strategic | Fully align teaching and Learning, Pre K -12 with our multi-tiered system of
Objective supports (MTSS) framework to ensure all students meet or exceed academic &
social-emotional learning expectations.
District Strategic | 1.2 Expand, & refine instruction to ensure the taught curriculum is consistent &
Initiative(s) equitable for all students.
1.4 Provide professional development that supports educator development,
including best practices for inclusive curriculum,
School-Based Goal | 100% of Village ELA and Math teachers will implement and provide high
quality instruction to all students using Wit and Wisdom and Illustrative Math.

Improvement Strategies Action Steps Who Timeline Resources | Status
Needed

Village School ELA teachers | Wit and Wisdom PD Teachers August 2024- | Time
will learn and implement the Administration | June 2025
Wit and Wisdom curriculum. | PLC meetings Curriculum PD from
Continue to look at scope coaches (gradual rollout | Wit and
and sequence and how Social | Teachers will collaborate with Wisdom
studies and science fit into to streamline lesson plans purposeful
Wit and Wisdom across the grade level time for Curriculum
Curriculum. reflection) materials
Village School Math teachers | Participate in vertical Teachers September Time
will use data to analyze and | planning Curriculum 2024- June
align instruction. in order to determine coaches 2025

multiple methods to show | Administration

mastery.

Use MCAS, iReady, and

relevant data to support

areas for growth and areas

of strength in the

curriculum.

Look at common

assessments, and score

together to calibrate.
Through this process, Schedule time for Teachers September PLC and
teachers will collaborate with | transitional school staff to | Administration | 2024-June department
Brown, Glover and Veterans | work in departments Curriculum 2025 time
school staff to align the coaches
curriculum and assure
standards are addressed.

Focus Area Professional Culture

Strategic Build, strengthen, & support educator capacity and well-being.

Objective

Strategic 2.3 Ensure adequate opportunities and spaces for collaboration in each school
Tnitiative(s) and district wide.

2.4 Develop & offer relevant, effective PD throughout the system.

School Based Goal

our teaching and learning.

With the assistance of our coaching staff and teacher leaders, Village will create
opportunities to offer relevant PD through staff and PLC’s in order to strengthen

Improvement Strategies | Action Steps Who Timeline Resources Status
Needed

By working with teacher | Determine teachers and staff | Administratio | August Time

leaders to define relevant | with expertise in specific n 2024- June

PD for our staff, Village areas. Lead Teachers | 2025 Technology

will research and offer PD | Create a survey to determine | Coaches

to support student needs. | what people need to support

instruction.

Village will continue the | Teacher leaders and coaches | Administratio | August Opportunities

process of creating research and find PD n, 2024- to visit other

train-the-trainer models to | resources relevant to math, Lead June 2025 districts

strengthen teacher ELA, grading and SEL. Teachers,

knowledge and capacity. Coaches Time for PD as
set in the
district
Wednesday
calendar.

Village teachers and staff | Professional staff PD, PBIS | Administratio | August PD, planning

will revisit PBIS as a within the umbrella of n, teachers, 2024-June time

faculty, setting consistent | MTSS teams to meet. PBIS team. 2025

and revised language, and | New systems created.

expectations

Determine areas of need | Set up PD during faculty Coaches August PLC time

in WIN for teachers to meetings in relation to WIN | Administratio | 2024-June | planning time.

strengthen best strategies. n 2025

instructional practices Teachers participate in Teachers

training on interventions
Create cycles for
interventions with data
meetings to address areas of
need and areas of growth.

Focus Area

Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

Strategic

Strategic
Initiative(s)

Objective

Promote equity & ensure inclusion by acknowledging & embedding all
forms of diversity throughout the district.

3.6 Identify, create, & evaluate practices to ensure all students have access
to high quality educational opportunities.

School-Based
Goal

Village will focus on strengthening a sense of belonging for all students
within the Village Schoo! Community to promote inclusivity, recognition,
education, and foster relationships.

Improvement Stratepies | Action Steps Who Timeline Resources Status
Needed |
By continuing the DEI Reflect on curriculum, DEI team September Curriculum
team we will strengthen resources and core novels 2024- June resources
conversations and for varying perspective 2025
reflections to be sure we | taking. Time
are increasing our Build in more time for
inclusive practices, students to practice social
skills, (community
meetings, peer
mentor/leadership program
Analyze data and use it to | Look at discipline referrals | DEI team and | September data from
strengthen inclusive Determine alternate PBIS team 2024- June ASPEN,
practices. consequences and Administratio | 2025 google
strengthen PBIS n forms-
community expectations Teachers behavior
referrals.
Improve Organize spirit and Teachers September Time
student-to-student and awareness days to celebrate | Administratio | 2024-Fune scheduled for
student/teacher neurodiversity. n 2025 meetings
relationships Make announcements in DEI team SEL
different languages. Counselors Counselors
Educate and provide Outside
opportunities to reflect resources/
different holiday/cultural guest
events. Create whole grade speakers

level community meetings.
Utilize advisory for
education opportunities.

Lucretia and Joseph
Brown School

School Improvement Plan

2024-2025

Marblehead Public Schools
Focus Area Teaching & Learning
District Strategic Fully align teaching and Learning, Pre k -12 with our multi-tiered system of supports
Objective (MTSS) framework to ensure all students meet or exceed academic &
social-emotional learning expectations.
District Strategic 1.1 Develop consistent systems, common assessments, & processes for data inquiry &
Initiative{s) analysis to support instructional excellence & student growth.

School Based Goal

To increase overall student achievement and further develop teacher capacity to
strengthen and align Tier { instruction as evidenced by observation and formal data,
including but not limited to iReady and curriculum based measures.

Improvement Strategies Action Steps Who Timeline Resources Status
Needed
All educators facilitating ELA | Implement Literacy Leads | Teachers August Time Ongoing
instruction (Classroom at each grade level Administration | 2024- June
teachers, special educators, Curriculum 2025 PD from Wit
ELL) will be given multiple Provide Wit and Wisdom coaches (gradual and Wisdom
opportunities to study, observe | training from Great Minds rollout
and implement the Wit and PLC meetings with Curriculum
Wisdom curriculum. purposeful | materials
Ongoing Coaching and time for
observation from Literacy reflection)
coaches
Increase communication
and understanding of
MTSS processes
-Newsletter updates Family
classroom experiences
Implementation of Responsive | Teachers and staff will Administrators Fall 2024- | Faculty Ongoing
Classroom components and participate in Responsive | Teachers June 2025 | Meeting
pillars to include but not Classroom refresher Counselors Time
limited to: Morning Meeting trainings throughout the Psychologist
(Greeting, Activity, Share year ae Chair, PLC
. i cademic .
Morning Message), Quiet coaches Meeting
Time, Take a break Space, etc. Time
as a Tier 1 Social Emotional Teachers will work to
Support for all students. implement components of Professional
Responsive Classroom Development
Time

into their daily schedule.

Interactive Modeling will
be emphasized as
instructional strategy to

address both SEL and
academic needs

The Power of our Words
will be purchased and
utilized for ongoing
training.

Adopt an Implementation Plan | Work with Asst. Administrators, | July
fora PK-3 SEL supporting Superintendent of Mental Health 2024-June
program to include a universal | Teaching and Learning to | Teams, Teachers | 2995
screener, resources and begin selection process
ongoing training for
developing our SEL system of
supports
Implement data informed PLCs will meet 4 times Administration | Fall Time Ongoing
small math intervention annually to review math Teachers 2023-2024 | Schedule for
groups based on instructional | data and group students Math Coach tutors to
area of need during the math Math Tutors meet with
block Schedule will be adapted teachers

for math tutors to join grade Time added

level PLCs monthly and
teach in grade level
classrooms 4 times a week

to the math
block
iReady
Resources
Math Cool
Down
assessments

Focus Area

Professional Culture

Strategic Objective

Build, strengthen, & support educator capacity and well-being.

Strategic Initiative(s)

2.4 Develop & offer relevant, effective PD throughout the system.

School Based Goals

The Brown and Glover School Staff will engage in multiple opportunities
throughout the year to develop and strengthen a positive, engaging, and unified
professional culture where staff members feel a sense of belonging and thrive as

educators.

Improvement Strategies Action Steps Who Timeline Resources Status
Needed

Regular use of Faculty Create SIP/PFS Principal and | Aug-June Time Ongoing
Meetings to connect, based groups with Team
evaluate and share our clear goals and Leaders, all Goal and
development as teams and objectives. staff members objective
as a staff. templates

SIP Groups will be

provided School

opportunities to Improvement

collaborate with Plan

colleagues

throughout the year. Plan for Success

(ie faculty meetings,

PLC Meetings, and

PD days.)
Further develop our Provide Principal, October- Time, coverage | Ongoing
Professional Learning Opportunities for Teachers, June and reflection
Communities teachers to grow Leaders. protocols

professionally by Literacy

observing one Leads, Math

another and Facilitators,

reflecting on best Inclusion

practices. Teachers

Focus Area

Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

Strategic Objective

Promote equity & ensure inclusion by acknowledging & embedding all forms of
diversity throughout the district.

Strategic Initiative(s)

3.6 Identify, create, & evaluate practices to ensure all students have access to high
quality educational opportunities.

School-Based Goal

of best practices during professional development time.

The Brown and Glover School staff members will work to ensure accessibility as it
relates to all students as measured by the implementation of the DCAP and sharing

Improvement Strategies | Action Steps Who Timeline | Resources Needed Status
ss

Continue to collaborate to | Provide PBIS Teams and | Principal, | August- Technology Ongoing
ensure we are offering mental health teams with | Teachers, | June Morning announcement
inclusive practices Professional Learning DEI time
throughout the school. time to develop data Team School Wide Community

collection processes and | PBIS Meeting time

protocols. Team Time for PBIS/ DEI Teams

to meet

Continue to build

inclusive practices into Time to review and

the curriculum, including reinforce school wide

morning meeting time, expectations at the

and morning beginning of the year and

announcements throughout the year (after

school vacations)

Continue to build

common language

around common school

wide expectations as

identified by PBIS Team

School wide reinforced

monthly core values
The DEI Team will review | DET Team will review Principal, | Sept.-Jun | Time to meet Ongoing
and share out best practices | the DCAP DEI e
from the district DCAP to Team Access to the district

support the learning of all
students and facilitate

Create a plan to share
best practices utilizing
the DECAP as it aligns
to MTSS during faculty
meeting times.

DCAP

Glover Elementary School

School Improvement Plan

2024-2025

Marblehead Public Schools
Focus Area Teaching & Learning
District Strategic Fully align teaching and Learning, Pre k -12 with our multi-tiered system of
Objective supports (MTSS) framework to ensure all students meet or exceed academic &
social-emotional learning expectations.
District Strategic 1.1 Develop consistent systems, common assessments, & processes for data
Initiative(s) inquiry & analysis to support instructional excellence & student growth.
School Based Goal | To increase overall student achievement and further develop teacher capacity to
strengthen and align Tier 1 instruction as evidenced by observation and formal
data, including but not limited to iReady, mClass, and curriculum based measures.

Improvement Strategies | Action Steps Who Timeline | Resources Status
Needed
All educators facilitating | Lead Teacher and Teachers August- | PLC Meeting
ELA instruction Literacy Leads support | Administration | June Time
(classroom teachers, at each grade level Curriculum
special educators, English coaches Stipends for
Language Educators) will | PLC meetings teacher
be given multiple leaders
opportunities to study, Ongoing Coaching and
observe and implement observation from Curriculum
the Wit and Wisdom Literacy coaches materials
curriculum.
Professional
Development
Implementation of Cohorts of teachers from | Administrators | August- | Faculty/PLC
Responsive Classroom both schools will Teachers June Meeting
components and pillars to | participate in Counselors Time
include but not limited to: | Responsive Classroom | Psychologist
Morning Meeting full week or refresher SpEd Chair Stipend for
(Greeting, Activity, Share | training train the
Morning Message), Quiet trainer
Time, Take a break Space, | Teachers from cohorts (Teachers
etc. as a Tier 1 Social will model and teach teaching
Emotional Support for all | Responsive Classroom teachers)
students. to their peers.
Professional
Teachers will work to Development

implement components
of Responsive

Classroom into their
daily schedule.

Implement data informed | PLCs will meet 4 times | Administration | August- | Time
small math intervention annually to review math | Teachers June Schedule for
groups based on data and group students | Math Coach tutors to meet
instructional area of need Math Tutors with teachers
during the math block Schedule will be Math Time added
adapted for math tutors | Facilitators to the math
to join grade level PLCs block
monthly and teach in iReady
grade level classrooms 4 Resources
times a week Math Cool
Down
assessments
Focus Area Professional Culture
Strategic Objective Build, strengthen, & support educator capacity and well-being.

Strategic Initiative(s)

2.4 Develop & offer relevant, effective PD throughout the system.

School Based Goals

The Glover School Staff will engage in multiple opportunities throughout the year
to develop and strengthen a positive, engaging, and unified professional culture
where staff members feel a sense of belonging and thrive as educators.

Improvement Strategies | Action Steps Who Timeline | Resources Status
Needed
Plan multiple opportunities | Regular use of meetings | Principal, | Aug-June | Time to
throughout the year to to connect, evaluate, and | Teachers, meet/plan
develop and strengthen a share the development | Staff
positive, engaging, and as a team and as a staff. Goal and
unified professional culture objective
templates
Reflection
protocols
Further develop our Provide Opportunities Principal, | August- Time, coverage
Professional Learning for teachers to grow Teachers, | June and reflection
Communities professionally by Coaches protocols
observing one another
and reflecting on best
practices.

Focus Area

Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

Strategic Objective

Promote ¢
diversity

Strategic Initiative(s)

quity & ensure inclusion by acknowledging & embedding all forms of
throughout the district.

quality educational opportunities.

3.6 Identify, create, & evaluate practices to ensure all students have access to high

School-Based Goal

Tbe Glover School staff members will work to ensure accessibility as it relates to

all students as measured by the implementation of the DCAP and sharing of best
practices during professional development time.

liprovement Strategies | Action Steps Who Timeline | Resources Status
Needed

Develop a plan to Measure the Principal, | August- | Time to review
collaborate to ensure we implementation of the | Teachers, | June and coilaborate
are offering inclusive DCAP to share best
practices throughout the practices
school. Share best practices

during professional

development time.
Continue to collaborate to | Provide PBIS Teams Principal, | August- | Technology
ensure we are offering and mental health Teachers, | June Morning
inclusive practices teams with DEI Team announcement
throughout the school. Professional Learning | PBIS time

time to develop data Team School Wide

collection processes Comnuunity

and protocols.

Continue to build
inclusive practices into
the curriculum,
including morning
meeting time, and
morning
announcements

Continue to build
common language
around common
school-wide
expectations as

Meeting time
Time for PBIS/
DEI Teams to
meet

Time to review
and reinforce
school wide
expectations at
the beginning of
the year and
throughout the
year

identified by PBIS
Team

School wide
reinforced monthly
core values

Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-314

Dr. Theresa B. McGuinness Ms. Julia Ferreira Ms. Patricia Bell
Interim Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of Interim Director of Student Services
Teaching & Learning

Memorandum

To: Marblehead School Committee

From: Theresa B. McGuinness, Ed.D, Interim Superintendent
RE: Annual Individual Contract Salary Adjustments

Date: June 20, 2024

Individual Contracts Salary Adjustments

The original proposal shared with the School Committee on May 16th, 2024 reflected a
proposed bottom line increase to administrator salaries of $119,642 reflective of market rate
adjustments and necessary adjustments to create equity among current employees. In the
time since the original proposal, we have continued to interview for several critical positions
including the Village School and Glover School principals. Following the conclusion of those
searches, we would like to recommend an additional increase of $8,162 for a total of
$127,804.00 to be able to attract and retain highly qualified candidates and our employees in
our key leadership roles.

Recommended Motion: Move to approve the Annual Individual Contract Salary Adjustments
in the amount of $127,804.00.
Special Education |

Focused
Compliance
Monitoring
Summary Report

June 20, 2024.

Compliance Rating Scale

|
| Commendable Criteria implemented in an exemplary manner

| significantly beyond the requirements of law or |
| regulation.

|
| |
Implemented (28) | The requirement is substantially met in all important
aspects

Partially The requirement, in one or several important aspects,
Implemented (6) is not entirely met.

Not Implemented | The requirement is totally or substantially not met

In MPS at this time, 28 out of 34 are already ‘Implemented’ and
6 out of 34 are ‘Partially Implemented’
SUMMARY OF COMPLIANCE CRITERIA RATINGS
For Marblehead Public Schools

Universal Standards Special Education

IMPLEMENTED 28 / 34 SE 1, SE 2, SE 3A, SE 6, SE 8, SE 9, SE 9A, SE 10, SE
11,

SE 13, SE 17, SE 18A, SE 19, SE 20, SE 25, SE 26, SE
29,

SE 34, SE 35, SE 37, SE 38,

SE 39, SE 40, SE 41, SE 42,

SE 43, SE 48, SE 49

PARTIALLY SE 3, SE 7, SE 12, SE 14,
IMPLEMENTED 6 / 34 SE 18B, SE 22

NOT None
IMPLEMENTED

NOT None

APPLICABLE

Special Education Criteria Partially Implemented

SE3 SLD determination missing certain components. Specifically |
_Ed Assessment A, student academic history |

SE7 Age of Majority document missing on some 18 year old |

| students |
| SE 12 Re-evals not always completed in time, or did not have parent |

waiver to postpone

| SE14 Some annual reviews not completed by due date

| SE18B IEP not always issued in timely fashion

| SE)22 Service delivery sometimes delayed without written notice |
| provided to family |

|

a a EE NS EE TSS SE ST TENTS SC
Corrective Actions
(Due 5/31/2025)

Actions already implemented by the Special Ed Department this Spring
include:

1. Training in all components of the new IEP format and its implementation in the
district starting in September 2024.

2. Re-training in the implementation of specific IEP processes identified as not
consistently applied

3. Review of the 2023-24 Student Services Handbook

4. Review of the DESE Individual Education Plan (IEP) Process Guide
./ |

Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-314

Dr. Theresa B. McGuinness Ms. Julia Ferreira Ms. Patricia Bell
Interim Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of Interim Director of Student Services
Teaching & Learning

MEMORANDUM
TO: Marblehead School Committee
FROM: Mary DeLai, Interim Director of Finance and Operations
DATE: June 20, 2024
RE: Schedule of Bills for Approval

Included in this packet are the following Schedules of Bills for your consideration. The schedules and

invoices have been uploaded to the shared drive.

Schedule | Amount
25225 $8,009.93
25242 $14,241.55
25243 $8,344.00
25244 $46,625.53
25245 $117,755.50
25251 $8,575.00
25256 $8,379.93
25260 $15.00
25261 $276,895.70
25277 $12,702.94
25282 $2,089.82
25283 $93,552.41
25290 $8,376.35

TOTAL $605,563.66

Suggested Motion:

Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $605,563.66.
vA |

Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-314

Dr. Theresa B. McGuinness Ms. Julia Ferreira Ms. Patricia Bell

Interim Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of Interim Director of Student Services
Teaching & Learning

MEMORANDUM

TO: Marblehead School Committee

FROM: Dr. Theresa McGuinness, Interim Superintendent

DATE: June 20, 2024

RE: Marblehead Public Schools Retirees, June 2024
Robert Dillon 16 | Sue Pillsbury 22
MaryEllen Hart 22 | Rachel Schauer 14
Joan Miller 20 | Janice Skalaban 23
Henry Oettinger 4 Herrick Wales 23
John Payne 16 160 Total Years

Robert Dillon has served as an English teacher at Marblehead High School for 16 years. He
has shared his literary knowledge and love for the English language with his students
throughout his career. Robert mentored students as the fencing club advisor at MHS.

MaryEllen Hart has been a dedicated teacher at the Village School and in the district for 22
years. Her years of dedication to developing our young learners as proficient readers has
made an indelible mark on our students. In addition to her role as teacher, she assumed the
role of coach to help support the other teachers at Village as they worked to implement new
curricula and assessments over the last few years. MaryEllen will be greatly missed!

Joan Miller has served as an outstanding Special Education teacher in the Marblehead
Public Schools for 20 years. Her support of students could truly be used as a model for
success for all special education teachers. Also in that capacity, she served as the President
of MEA too frequently collaborating with the district and school administration and staff. As
she prepared to retire last year, we were able to convince her to come back for one more
year as our Interim Assistant Principal. As attested by our staff and students, she did an
unbelievable job in her first administrative position. Joan Miller will be missed by everyone
at Vets.

Henry Oettinger is retiring after serving as the Engineering teacher at MVMS for the last
four years. He came to Vets with many years of experience as a private school science
teacher. Over the last four years, ‘Dr. 0’ has revitalized our Engineering program, creating
many opportunities for our students to complete hands-on projects and activities.
Additionally, he has fostered a resurgence in membership for students in our Engineering
Club. These students have done some outstanding projects...all while having fun! We wish
Dr. O all of the best as he gets to spend more time on his boat!

John Payne has served as a Marine Tech teacher at Marblehead High School for the past 16
years. In this hands-on course, John teaches students about how boat engines work, a handy
skill for students in Marblehead. His class was even featured in a WBZ newsradio report in
February 2023.

Sue Pillsbury has served as a Speech and Language Pathologist at Marblehead Schools for
22 years. Sue has worked with helping students across the district and has been a strong
advocate for students. She is always willing to step in and take on additional duties and will
be missed by everyone.

Rachel Schauer has served as a Literacy Tutor at Glover School for 14 years. Rachel has
inspired hundreds of students to love reading. She is a dedicated educator and excellent
mentor to many new literacy tutors. Rachel has formed life-time friendships at Glover and
will be missed by parents, students, and staff members.

Janice Skalaban has served as a Business teacher at Marblehead High School for 23 years.
Additionally, Janice started the DECA Club and has been an advisor for this club for several
years. She led MHS students in competing in the district, state and international
competitions for the DECA Club with great success.

Herrick Wales has been a special education teacher in the Marblehead School District for
23 years. He has worked in various teaching roles across buildings. Most recently he has
been an inclusion teacher in 4th grade at Village School. Herrick always has a warm smile
and a positive attitude. We wish him the best of luck as he joins his family in Arizona.
Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Thursday February 15, 2024
7:01PM

Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner, Alison Taylor, Al Williams

Also Present: Dr. Theresa McGuinnes-Interim Superintendent, Michelle Cresta-Assistant

Superintendent of Finance, Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and
Learning

1. Initial Business

a. Call to Order

Ms, Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00PM

b. Commendations

Alison Taylor would like to commend the MHS Hockey Team who is competing in finals in
Canada

Jennifer Schaeffer would like to commend both of the MHS’s Acappella groups for their
performances this year

Brian Ota would like to welcome the new School Committee member Al Williams

c. Public Comment

Nancy Powell-72 Front Street
o Nancy is speaking on behalf of the League of Woman Voters
© The League would like to host a public forum featuring the School Committee to discuss
some of the issues that have arisen recently within the community
© Anonpartisan forum would be a “productive next step”
o They request that the proposal be accepted during the “New Business” portion of the
meeting
Amy Dracker-30 Gregory Street
o Amy is the author of the letter read at last week’s school committee meeting and would
like to enter the Jetter into Public Record tonight
0 In the last week over 760: people over the age of 18 have signed the online petition
o “The message is a call to action as to how you will address the issues raised by the
community regarding our schools”
Mary McCariston-46 Pine Cliff Drive
© Mary welcomes Al and is hoping that he will be able to “corral” the committee for the
kids

d. Student Representative-Cat Piper

Quarter 2 Report Cards were published and released on 02/06/24

The Spanish Class trip to Spain will be during February Vacation

Team Harmony has been visiting Elementary and Middle Schools to speak on social justice and
equality

Informational sessions for the 2025 Greece trip will be held during April Vacation

Magic Hat is looking for Student volunteers to work and continue to raise money for the schools.
They will receive honors society points for their service

School counselors will be starting sessions with Juniors to assist them in applying for college
Auditions for the MHS Spring play “The Prom” were held today
* The Junior class is looking for donors for their upcoming auction, they are aiming to raise
$50,000
® Sophomore Semi-Formal tickets will be on sale starting 02/26/24
II. District Updates-Dr. Theresa McGuinness
« Dr. McGuinness introduces Patricia Bell
o Interim Student Services Director for MPS for the remainder of the 2023/2024 School
Year
«Dr. McGuiness introduces Mary Delai
o Consultant that will be here on a part time basis to assist in the Assistant Superintendent
of Finance and Operations role through the remainder of the 2023/2024 School Year
= Dr. McGuinness provides an update on the “Student Services Steering Committee”
= Wit and Wisdom mid-year update- Julia Ferreira, Mary Ellen Hart, Mary Leblanc, and Rebecca
Brand
© Julia, Mary, Rebecca and Mary give a curriculum update on the Wit and Wisdom
Literacy Program
© Wit and Wisdom provides opportunities for students to practice their skills in writing,
speaking, and listening
© They provide an overview of the reason Wit and Wisdom was selected for knowledge and
curriculum building for our Students from K-6
© Julia shares how the program was implemented initially to ensure the program was
successful
© Training was provided for educators to launch the program
© Graphs are shared outlining the growth of our students through this program
= School Calendar 2024-2025 (vote)
© The MEA has not voted on the PD days but the draft of the calendar presented at the last
school committee meeting is the final version

Motion to approve the School Calendar for the 2024/2025 School Year as was presented at our last
School Committee Meeting 02/01/24

Moved by Ms. Taylor, Seconded by Mr Ota
Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, and Ms. Schaeffner-All Yes
Mr. Williams abstained from the vote
Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0 with | abstention
« Budget Update — Dr. McGuinness and Michelle Cresta
© 02/28/24 the FY25 Budget will be presented to the Budget Workshop
© They will be presenting a Level Services Budget and a Reduced Services Budget

© The Budget Book will be ready by the end of next week to present to the School Committee

Ill. Consent Action and Agenda Items
a. Schedule of Bills (vote)

Motion (o approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $762,430.73
Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Ms. Taylor

Mr, Ota, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Williams, and Ms. Schaeffner-All Yes

Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

b. Approval of Minutes (vote)

Motion to approve the minutes as presented for 12/07/23

Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Ms. Taylor

Mr, Ota, Ms. Taylor, and Ms. Schaeffner-All Yes

Mr. Williams abstained from the vote

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 3-0 with | abstention

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
a. 1 Am Bill (vote)
* Megan Sweeny presents the I Am Bill as a representative of the Massachusetts Chapter of the
National Organization for Women (Mass NOW)
«The Am Bill increases access to menstrual products in Prisons, Homeless Shelters and Public
Schools

Motion to approve the Marblehead School Committee supporting the I Am Bill and to write to our elected
representatives

Moved by Ms. Taylor, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Williams, Ms. Schaeffner and Ms. Fox-All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

b. Interim Student Services Director (vote)

Motion to approve the contract for Interim Student Services Director Bell
Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Mr. Williams

Mr, Ota, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Williams, Ms. Fox and Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes

Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

c. School Business and Operations Position (vote)

Motion to approve the contract for the School Business and Operations Position

Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Mr. Williams
Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Williams, Ms. Fox and Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes

Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

d. Village School Overnight Field Trip Approval (Bournedale) (vote)
Motion to approve the Village School overnight field trip to Bournedale 05/21/24
Moved by Mr. Williams, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Williams, Ms. Fox and Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes

Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

e. Marblehead High School Program of Studies Change (vote)
*  Michelie Carlson gives a presentation outlining the changes to the Marblehead High Schools
Program of Studies

Motion to approve the Marblehead High Schools Program of Studies changes for the 2024/2025 school
year

Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Mr. Williams
Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Williams, Ms. Fox and Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes
Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

f. Marblehead High School DECA Overnight Field Trip Change (vote)
«The Hotel location has changed

Motion to approve DECA Overnight field trip with the change in hotel
Moved by Ms. Taylor, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Williams, Ms. Fox and Ms. Schaeffer -All Yes
Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

g. Pre-School and Kindergarten Tuition Rates (vote)
= Michelle Cresta presents the current Kindergarten and Pre-School Tuition Rates
© Kindergarten tuition rates have not seen an increase in 3 years
© Pre-School tuition rates have not seen an increase in 2 years
o Looking for an increase of $500 in each of these programs
=  Kindergarten-$4000 for the year
*  Pre-K1/2 Day $5000 for the year / Pre-K Full Day-$7000 for the year

Motion to approve the Tuition rates for the 2024/2025 School Year as follows:
Full Day Kindergarten $4000, Pre-School 4 Day $5000 and Pre-School Full Day $7000
Moved by Mr. Williams, Seconded by Ms. Taylor
Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Williams, Ms. Fox and Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes
Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

h. Athletic and Activity User Fee Rates
= No vote on this tonight
= Activity and User Fees directly impact the school budget
" Used to pay for half of the stipends
= A proposal will be ready for the School Committee at a future meeting
i, Superintendent Search Process Discussion(vote)
* Sarah Fox references a letter that was written to the editor that the school committee is taking
“very seriously”
» We received guidance from our Legal Council that the Schoo! Committee attend a training
= MASC hosts a training that focuses on Districts in transition called “Training and Transitions”
» Glen Kucher has made a proposal to move forward with a search for a Interim Superintendent
j. Upcoming Meetings Forum
® Sarah Fox will work with the League of Woman’s Voters to get some dates for community the
forum requested
k. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates and Discussion
* METCO Day of Action will be happening soon
« Finance Committee Liasson’s meeting 02/16
V. Closing Business
» Brian Ota asks where the RFP is for the Special Ed audit request
© It will be released by the end of next week
* High School Roof repair OPM will be released next week
a. New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests

= None
b. Correspondence
« None

c. Adjournment

Motion to adjourn

Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Mr. Williams

Mr, Ota, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Williams, Ms. Fox and Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

Meeting is adjourned at 9:17PM by Ms. Schaeffner

Respectfully Submitted,

Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Thursday April 01, 2024
7:00PM

Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner, Alison Taylor, Al Williams

Also Present: Dr, Theresa McGuinnes-Interim Superintendent, Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent
of Teaching and Learning

I. Initial Business
a. Call to Order
Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00PM

b. Commendations

= None
c. Public Comment
«None

IL. District Updates-Dr. Theresa McGuinness
a. FY24 Update
= Special Ed Audit bid will be awarded in May to begin the audit in June
© Alison Taylor will be on the evaluation committee
= Roofing Project request for proposal is underway with responses due later this month and a
contract awarded in mid-July
© Completion of phase one is set for July 2025
© Air quality tests have been performed and it has been determined that the mold is not
airborne
© Mary Delai outlines what this process looks like from start to finish
b. FY25 budget status update
«Presentation of Budget Priorities
© Dr. McGuinness presents an FY25 Priority List presentation for the District
* The Level Funding budget was rejected at the last school committee meeting
= We are now looking at a Level Services budget
« The three categories presented are the positions that have been prioritized to be
brought back into the budget with category one representing the most critical
areas
* Mary outlines that we will be repurposing some of our revolving funds to
facilitate bringing back these positions,
© Athletics-User Fee Analysis and Structure
= Currently 50% of Coaching stipends are paid by user fees
«With Level Service Funding we would continue to pay 50% of coach stipends
from User Fees
« With Reduced Service Funding 100% of coach stipends from User Fees
oA list is presented of reductions not included in the ranking as budget add backs
* More information is requested on the cuts made in the Special Education
department at Glover, Village and the High School
« Additional information is requested on the cut made to the Reading Teacher and
Special Ed Teacher at the Village School

Motion to approve a budget of $47,072,476
Moved by Ms. Taylor, Seconded by Ms. Schaeffner
Mr. Williams, Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Schaeffer, All Yes
A vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0
Ill. Consent Action and Agenda Items
Motion to allow to post for an Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations
Moved by Ms. Taylor, Seconded by Ms. Schaeffner
Mr. Williams, Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms, Schaeffner, All Yes
A vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0
IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
a. Communication Proposal

« Brian Ota gives a presentation of the Communication Survey

V. Closing Business
a. New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests

= None
b. Correspondence
= None

c, Adjournment
Meeting is adjourned at 8:25PM by Ms. Fox

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Thursday April 25, 2024
7:00PM

Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner, Alison Taylor, Al Williams

Also Present: Dr. Theresa McGuinnes-interim Superintendent, Mary Delai- Interim Assistant
Superintendent of Finance, Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and
Learning

I. Initial Business

a. Call to Order

Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:01PM

b. Commendations
= Brian Ota reads a statement that he has written on the leaks at Marblehead High School
© He would like to commend Todd and the Custodians regarding the diligence in keeping
up with the leaks
"Jennifer Schaeffner highlights that Marblehead High School students were selected to attend the
North Shore Chamber of Commerce's dinner
oO The North Shore Chamber of Commerce celebrates the top 5% of students in the
graduating class of each public high schoo! on the north shore
« Alison Taylor would like to commend anybody that pulled and returned papers for a seat on a
committee within the district
= Sarah Fox would like to commend everyone that has been part of the districts hiring committees
c. Public Comment
= Mary McCariston-46 Pine Cliff Drive
© Mary asks a question about an article she read regarding additional funding that the
district may receive from the Town
© Mary also references the “firing of Ann Haskell” and gives her opinion on the dismissal

II. District Updates-Dr. Theresa McGuinness

= Dr. McGuinness would like to commend the Marblehead Boosters and the community for the
“Fund the Field” project that was able to raise over $800,000 for the replacement of Piper Field at
the High Schooi
= Staffing Updates:
© Glover School Principal
= First round of interviews has taken place
* Site visit scheduled for 05/02
© Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations
= Interviews were today 04/25
= Updates will be provided in the next two weeks
© Village School Principal
= Starting next week
o Assistant Director of Student Services (.5 FTE)
= Will be posted soon
= Special Education Program Review
© Due date for proposals was today 04/25
© 5 firms have submitted proposals
© Proposals will be reviewed by evaluation committee and a vendor will be selected by
05/15
= Marblehead High School Roof Replacement:
© Due date for proposals is 05/16
© 12 Firms have requested RFS’s
© Proposals will be reviewed by evaluation committee on 05/20 and the vendor will be
selected by 05/30
= 05/24-Last day of classes for Seniors
* Senior Prom- 05/29
= Graduation-05/3 1
» Student representative Cat Piper will be graduating this year and will bring her choice for
replacement representative to the next School Committee meeting

a. Updated School Calendar 2024-2025 (vote)

» School Committee has received some changes requested by the MEA to the School Calendar for
the 2024-2025 School Year

Motion to amend the previously approved motion to approve the 24/25 School Calendar
Moved by Ms. Schaeffner, Seconded by Ms. Taylor

Mr, Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffher, Ms. Fox- All Yes

Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

Ill. Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills (vote)

Motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $425,631.81

Moved by Ms. Taylor, Seconded by Ms. Schaeffner

Mr. Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffer, Ms. Fox- All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

b. Approval of Minutes (vote)

Motion to approve the minutes as presented for 01/18/2024 with the requested edits
Moved by Ms. Schaeffiner, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffner, Ms. Fox- All Yes
Mr, Williams has abstained from the vote
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0 with one abstention

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

a. Director of Student Services Interview (vote)
* Lisa Marie Ippolito-Finalist for Director of Student Services for Marblehead Public Schools
© Dr. McGuinness provides an introduction of Lisa Marie to the School Committee
© The School Committee asks their questions to Lisa Marie

Motion to approve the hiring of Lisa Marie Ippolito for the Director of Student Services pending contract
negotiations

Opened for Discussion

* Jennifer Schaeffner has done research and this position in other School Districts is an Assistant
Superintendent position and proposes an amendment to the motion

Motion to hire Lisa Marie Ippolito as the Assistant Superintendent of Student Services pending a
successful contract and pending the voting in of a new role, salary range, and job description

Moved by Ms. Taylor, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Mr. Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffner, Ms. Fox- All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

b. Marblehead High School Turf Replacement Donation (vote)

Motion to approve the acceptance of the donation fiom the Marblehead All Sports Boosters in the amount
of $680,698 for the Piper Field replacement and site improvement

Moved by Ms. Schaeffner, Seconded by Ms. Taylor
Mr, Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffner, Ms. Fox- All Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

c. User Fees Rate Setting (vote)
* Mary Delai sent a memo to the School Committee recommending that the district adopts option 2

Motion to approve the new user fee schedule outlined in the closed packet for the 2024-2025 School Year
Moved by Ms. Schaetffner, Seconded by Ms. Taylor
Mr. Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffner, Ms. Fox- All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0
d. Superintendent Search Discussion
= The district has received a number of qualified candidates
= The School Committee discusses who their top 4 candidates are to begin to narrow the pool of
candidates
* The final candidates for the Interim Superintendent position will be Barbara Cataldo, Thaddeus
King, Jose Munos, John Robidoux and David Thompson
e, Sub Committee and Liaison Updates and Discussion
« Communications Survey Update
© Brian Ota presents the Final Draft of the Communications Survey
© The School Committee points out a few more edits that need to be made prior to
publishing the survey
o As the Surveys are completed they will be sent to Stephen Kwiatek, Director of
Technology, to pull the data together for the School Committees review
V. Closing Business

a. New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests

= None
b. Correspondence
= None

c. Adjournment
Meeting is adjourned at 8:15PM by Ms. Fox
Respectfully Submitted,

Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Wednesday May 01, 2024
7:00PM

Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner, Alison Taylor, Al Williams
Also Present: Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and Learning

I. Initial Business

a. Call to Order
Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:04PM

"Sarah Fox thanks the Marblehead Police Department as well as the Staff and Students at the
Marblehead High Schoo! for their response to the incident on 04/29

« Alison Taylor asks for a moment of silence for Todd Norman, a Marblehead Softball Coach that
passed away recently

Tl. Overview of Process and Organization
* Sarah Fox goes over the Interview Process for the Interim Superintendent candidates
Hi. Interviews for Interim Superintendent of Schools

a. Dr. Barbara Cataldo 7:15 PM
«Jennifer Schaeffner asks her questions to Barbara Cataldo
* Brian Ota asks his questions to Barbara Cataldo
* Alison Taylor asks her questions to Barbara Cataldo
« Al Williams asks his questions to Barbara Cataldo
« Sarah Fox asks her questions to Barbara Cataldo
b. Dr. David Thomson 8:30 PM
* Jennifer Schaeffner asks her questions to David Thompson
"Brian Ota asks his questions to David Thompson
* Alison Taylor asks her questions to David Thompson
* Al Williams asks his questions to David Thompson
«Sarah Fox asks her questions to David Thompson

IV. Interview Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations Candidate

a. Michael Pfifferling- Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operation Finalist
= Julia Ferreira introduces Michael fo the School Committee
* Brian Ota asks his questions to Michael Pfifferling
* Alison Taylor welcomes Michael to the District and points out some of the things that were
brought up during the initial interview of Michael by the hiring committee
«Jennifer Schaeffer asks her questions to Michael Pfifferling
* Sarah Fox asks her questions to Michael Pfifferling
Motion to approve Michael Pfifferling as our Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations subject
to successful contract negotiations

Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Ms. Schaeffner

Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffer, Ms. Fox- All Yes
A vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

V. Closing Business

Meeting is adjourned at 9:50PM by Ms. Fox (Check adjournment time recording cut off before Sarah said

it}

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
Record of the Marblehead Schoo! Committee Meeting
Friday May 10, 2024
1:00PM

Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner, Alison Taylor, Al Williams

Also Present: Dr. Theresa McGuinnes-Interim Superintendent, Mary Delai- Interim Assistant
Superintendent of Finance, Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and
Learning

[. Initial Business

a. Call to Order

Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 1:01PM

b. Public Comment
= None

If. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

a. Interim Superintendent Discussion (vote)
= 14 Feedback forms were received
* The School Committee discusses the candidates and who they would like to move forward in the

process

© Al Williams has two candidates that he would like to see move forward-John Robidoux
and Barbara Cataldo

© Brian Ota has two candidates that he would like to see move forward- Thaddeus King
and David Thompson

© Alison Taylor has two candidates that she would like to see move forward- John
Robidoux and David Thompson

© Jennifer Schaeffner has two candidates that she would like to see move forward-Barbara

Cataldo and John Robidoux
© Sarah Fox has two candidates that she would like to see move forward- Barbara Cataldo
and John Robidoux
= John Robidoux and Barbara Cataldo will move forward
= After the site visits the School Committee will discuss next steps

Motion to move Barbara Cataldo and John Robidoux to the next phase of the Interim Superintendent
Search

Moved by Mr. Williams, Seconded by Ms. Schaeffner
Mr. Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffner, Ms. Fox-All Yes
A vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

b, Assistant Superintendent Contract Approval (vote)
* Michael Pfifferling-Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations

Motion to approve the contract with Michael Pfifferling for Assistant Superintendent of Finance and
Operations

Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Ms. Taylor
Mr. Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffner, and Ms. Fox-All Yes
A vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0
«Lisa Marti Ippolito-Assistant Superintendent of Student Services
Motion to approve the contract with Lisa Marie Ippolito for Assistant Superintendent of Student Services
Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Ms. Taylor
Mr. Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffner, and Ms. Fox-All Yes
A vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

c. Principal Contract Approval
= This agenda item will be scheduled for a future meeting

III, Closing Business

a. New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests
«Brian Ota-Communications Survey
© 566 Responses so far
© Results will be presented at the next School Committee meeting
» Jennifer Schaeffner goes over what would be involved in having a State Auditor come in and do
and audit of the district
b. Adjournment

Meeting is adjourned at 1:30 PM by Ms. Fox
Respectfully Submitted,

Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Thursday May 16, 2024
7:00PM

Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner, Alison Taylor, A] Williams

Also Present: Dr. Theresa McGuinnes-Interim Superintendent, Mary Delai- Interim Assistant
Superintendent of Finance, Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and
Learning

I. Initial Business

a. Call to Order

Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00PM

Ms. Fox also called the public hearing for school choice for the 2024-2025 School Year to order at 7:00PM
a. Public Hearing for Schoo! Choice for the 2024-2025 School Year

« The Ed Reform Act of 1993 and DESE require that each school committee admit non-resident
students under the “School Choice Pro Program” unless the School Committee votes to the contrary
* Dr. McGuinness provides her recommendations to the School Committee regarding the vote
© Deciding factor in whether we participate in the program is enrollment numbers
© Due to the lack of available classroom space Dr. McGuinness recommends that we do not
participate in School Choice Program

Motion to approve that Marblehead Public Schools does not participate in the School Choice Program
for the 2024-2025 School Year

Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Ms, Schaeffer

Mr. Williams, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Schaeffner, Ms. Fox All Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

Ms. Fox closes the hearing on School Choice will close at 7:04PM

b. Commendations
"None
ce. Public Comment
« Johnathan Heller-26 Ralph Road, Marblehead ; Sally Shevory-80 Garfield Street, Marblehead

o MEA Co-Presidents are here to discuss the Sick Leave Bank
oO The Sick Leave Bank was never ratified by the School Committee after going into
Collective Bargaining
o They would like to ask the School Committee to make a motion to approve the Sick
Leave Bank
d. Student Representative-Cat Piper
= Students are finishing the second week of AP exams
«Culture Feast-05/24 from 4:00PM to 7:00PM

= Accapalooza-05/17 at 7:00PM in the MVMS PAC

= Spring Art Exhibition started on 05/14 and runs through 05/22 at Abbott Hail

= The MHS Marching Band will be in the Memorial Day Parade in Marblehead

* 05/24 the Senior Project “Gallery Walkthrough” will be 05/24 in the MHS Fieldhouse
* Senior Prom will be at the House of Blues in Boston on 05/29

= Scholarship night will be 05/28 in the MHS Fieldhouse

IL. District Updates-Dr. Theresa McGuinness
= Special Education Program Review
o 5 Proposals have been reviewed
© Academic Discovery will be completing the review
© An interim report will be available at the end of September and the final report will be
provided by December
= Principal Search Updates
© Glover Principal Search has been re-opened
= Julia Ferreira is continuing to spearhead this search
© Village School Principal Search
= Two interviews have been conducted
a. Youth Risk Behavior Survey-Gina Hart and Julia Ferreira
*  Gina-Clinical Social Worker at Marblehead High School
= This is the third year that this data has been collected
85% response rate this year
Survey is voluntary
Mass General provides the survey, and it is grant funded
Gina provides the data on the Protective and Risk Factors
* Gina discusses the current programming that MHS offers to assist in combating some of these
behaviors within our students
= Julia discusses the district programming that is offered to our staff to help assist our students
* Gina and Julia go over next steps and actions to assist our staff, students, and community
members going into the 2024-2025 School year
b. Staff Support Classification Plan Proposal
= Mary Delai goes over the updated Staff Support Classification proposal
oO Most administrative staff is currently classified as “clerk”
© This classification plan will create structure for our support staff
© The job descriptions were also re-written in accordance with the updated classification
plan
* The vote to approve the plan as well as the job descriptions will be posted for the next school
committee meeting
c, FY24 Budget Status Update-Mary Delai
= Mary discusses the projected end of year surplus for FY24 which currently stands at $755,000
= Pre-payment of next year’s tuitions is discussed which will also assist us in keeping additional
funds in the 2024/2025 budget
« The additional surplus beyond paying for the tuitions will be used to pre-pay special education
out of district placements

Til. Consent Action and Agenda Items
a. Schedule of Bills (vote)
Motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $1,365,425.76
Moved by Ms. Schaeffner, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Mr. Williams, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Schaeffner, Ms. Fox All Yes
Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

b. Approval of Minutes (vote)

Motion to approve the minutes dated 02/01/24

Moved by Ms. Schaeffner, Seconded by Ms. Taylor

Ms. Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Schaeffner, Ms. Fox All Yes

Mr. Williams has abstained from the vote

Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0 with one abstention

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
a. Superintendent Search Update
« The committee decided to move forward John Robidoux and Barbara Cataldo to the site visit
portion of the interview process
«Barbara Cataldo has withdrawn from the interview process
= The school committee will be visiting John’s current district on 05/22
« After the visit to his district the school committee will be setting up a day that he will be visiting
our district
b, Communications Survey Results
= This item will be moved to the next school committee agenda
c. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates and discussion
«The proposed budget passed at our most recent meeting

V. Closing Business
a. New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests

= None
b. Correspondence
=» None

c. Adjournment

Motion and vote to meet in Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Law chapter 30A
section 21a) for the following purpose:

Purpose (2) ta conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to
conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel

Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for collective bargaining with the
Marblehead Teachers Association Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit
Paraprofessionals, and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have detrimental effect on the
bargaining position of the committee with intent not to return to open session at 8:05PM.
Moved by Ms. Schaeffer, Seconded by Mr, Ota

Mr. Williams, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Schaeffner, Ms. Fox All Yes

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
MADDISON GAIESKI BSN, RN

Caring, responsible, and personable registered nurse with school nurse, public health, and education
experience looking for a position as a school nurse. Compassionate professional who provides positive
student-centered care to identify and treat acute illness and manage chronic disease. Prioritizes safety,
acute medical care, health education, screening, and health promotion strategies to improve the health
outcomes of all students. Passionate about caring for students from all backgrounds and ages to help them
reach and maintain their health goals,

EXPERIENCE

Marblehead High School, Marblehead, MA

Long-Term Substitute School Nurse February 2024-Present
-Serve over 900 high school students

-Triage students to provide medical support aud nursing interventions in the school setting

-Assist in assessing and solving student complaints so students can return to class

-Provide first aid, medication, and chronic disease management

-Correspond with families and staff about student well-being

Salem Academy Charter School, Salem, MA

Substitute School Nurse January 2024-Present
-Assess students and provide nursing interventions

-Assist and provide care for students managing chronic illnesses such as diabetes and asthma
-Administer prescription and OTC medications to students in the school setting

-Correspond with families and staff about student well-being

New Hampshire Academy of Performing Arts, Seabrook, NH

Youth Program Coordinator and Dance Teacher May 2023 - Present
-Plan, develop, and implement youth special events and programming

-Complete studio administrative tasks like scheduling, registration, and creating promotional graphics
-Send out correspondence to families about upcoming events and performances

-Update the website as needed

British International School of Boston, Boston, MA

Dance Teacher August 2022- June 2023
~Educate over 300 primary students about the art of dance through the Julliard Creative Classroom
Curriculum

-Provide first aid for minor injuries acquired in the classroom

-Offer emotional support and validation to students

-Define clear classroom expectations and behavior management strategies

Lynn Community Health Center, Lynn, MA
Telephone Triage Nurse May 2020- August 2022
-Triage patients of all ages over the phone, making clinical assessments and providing a dacumented plan
-Comimunicate and educate patients about test results, medication regimens, and PCP instructions
-Correspondence with outside agencies with consent to provide quality patient care

-Play an essential role in assessing positive COVID-19 patients and providing follow-up

EDUCATION
Bachelor of Science (B.S.) - Nursing with a minor in Biology Sep 2015 - May 2019
Salem State University, Salem, MA

Graduated magna cum faude—3.59+ GPA

SKILLS -
Aspen, Interpersonal Skills, Critical Thinking, Leadership, Collaboration, Computer Skills
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Executive Office of Health and Human Services
Department of Public Health
250 Washington Street, Boston, MA 02108-4619

Tel: 617-624-6000
KATHLEEN E. WALSH

MAURA T. HEALEY www.mass.gov/dph
Governor Secretary
KIMBERLEY DRISCOLL if} H ; ROBERT GOLOSTEIN, MD, PhD
Verification of Licensure
Lieutenant Governor Commissioner
06/18/2024

To Whom It May Concern:

The individual named below is licensed in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts as a:

Registered Nurse

Name of Licensee: Maddison Gaieski

License Number: RN2335945

License Status: Current

Issue Date: 08/13/2019

Expiration Date: 04/24/2026

Disciplinary Actions: There are no disciplinary actions against this license.

Registration verification may be obtained at http://checkahealthlicense.mass.gov/. The
information provided in this “Verification” is based on the records maintained by the
Massachusetts Bureau of Health Professions Licensure and its licensing boards. Individuals
are deemed to be in good standing if their license is current and not subject to any disciplinary
status on the date of issuance of the “Verification.” Disciplinary status is defined as voluntary
surrender, revocation, suspension or probation of a Ilcense, The “Verification” does not include
information about the existence, absence, or status of complaints. To request such information,
please submit a public record request to

publicrecordsadmin@massmail.state.ma.us.

tleageCee_

Heather Cambra, BSN RN JD
Executive Director, Board of Registration in Nursing

0f9a3309-bfc4-4619-94b2-3ach7 4b92db4
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts

Executive Office of Health and Human Services
Department of Public Health

250 Washington Street, Boston, MA 02108-4619

Verification of Licensure

Education

United States Education

School Name: Salem State College
Degree Type: Bachelor of Science in Nursing
Graduation Date: 05/19/2019

2/2
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN
THE MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE
AND
JOHN ROBIDOUX

This Employment Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “this AGREEMENT”) is made between the
Marblehead School Committee (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee") and John Robidoux
(hereinafter referred to as "the Interim Superintendent" or “ Mr. Robidoux”). This AGREEMENT will be
effective as of July 1, 2024. For mutual consideration expressed herein, the parties agree as follows:

1. EMPLOYMENT: The Committee hereby agrees to employ Mr. Robidoux
as Interim Superintendent of the Marblehead Public Schools, and Mr. Robidoux
accepts such employment on the terms and conditions contained in this AGREEMENT.

2. DURATION: Mr. Robidoux shall be employed as the interim superintendent of the
Marblehead Public Schools for two (2) years, from July 1, 2024 through June 30, 2026, except as this
AGREEMENT may be otherwise extended by mutual agreement or terminated as provided herein. No
later than February 1, 2026, the Committee shall notify the Interim Superintendent in writing as to
whether or not it desires to continue the Interim Superintendent’s employment beyond June 30, 2026.
Should the Committee and the Interim Superintendent mutually desire to continue the Interim
Superintendent’s employment, they will make a good faith effort to complete negotiations for a successor
employment agreement on or before March 15, 2026. If they are unable to agree upon a new employment
agreement or an extension of this AGREEMENT, then this AGREEMENT will expire, and the Interim
Superintendent’s employment will end on June 30, 2026.

3. COMPENSATION: The Interim Superintendent will be paid in accordance with the
following schedule:

Contract Year Contract Year Salary
First July 1, 2024-June 30, 2025 $208,000.
Second July 1, 2025-June 30, 2026 To Be Determined

The Interim Superintendent’s Contract Year Salary shall be subject to withholdings for state and federal
taxes and other withholdings required by law or authorized by the Interim Superintendent. The
Comunittee shall determine the Interim Superintendent’s salary for the Second Contract Year (July 1,
2025- June 30, 2026) on or before June 30, 2025. The Interim Superintendent’s Salary in the Second
Contract Year shall not be less than his Salary in the First Contract Year. The Interim Superintendent’s
Contract Year Salary shall be earned ratably in each of the Contract Years (July 1, 2024-June 30, 2025;
July 1, 2025-June 30, 2026) and shall be prorated for work of Jess than a full Contract Year. The Interim
Superintendent’s Salary shal! be paid in equal installments in accordance with the procedures governing
payment of other professional staff in the Marblehead Public Schools.
4. WORK YEAR AND LEAVE BENEFITS:

4.1 Work Year: The work year for the Interim Superintendent is twelve months commencing
July 1" of each Contract Year and ending the following June 30", The Interim Superintendent shall
devote his full time, skill, labor and attention to the discharge of his duties as Interim Superintendent for
the Marblehead Public Schools.

4.2 Vacation Leave:
A. Accrual.
The Interim Superintendent shall be entitled to twenty-five (25) vacation days per Contract
Year earned at the rate of 2.0833 days per month. The Interim Superintendent may borrow
against future accrual during the same Contract Year.

B. Carry Over

A maximum of five (5) vacation days may be carried over from Contract Year to Contract
Year, so that at any one time the maximum number of vacation days which are available
shall not exceed thirty (30).

C. Per Diem Rate
For the purposes of determining the Interim Superintendent’s per diem rate under this
AGREEMENT, the Interim Superintendent’s Annual Salary shall be divided by 261 days.

4.3 Sick Leave: The Interim Superintendent shall be entitled to sick leave with pay in accordance
with the provisions in this Section 4.3. Effective July 1, 2024, the Interim Superintendent will be granted
a bank of fifteen (15) sick leave days. The Interim Superintendent will accrue 1.25 days of sick leave
per month commencing July 1, 2025. The Interim Superintendent may use accrued sick leave to cover
the Interim Superintendent’s absences for personal illness or injury. The Interim Superintendent may
carry over unused accrued sick leave days into subsequent Contract Years up to a maximum of thirty
(30) days. Unused sick leave is not paid out upon separation from employment.

4.4 Holidays: The Interim Superintendent shall receive the following paid holidays:

New Year’s Day Labor Day

Martin Luther King Jr. Birthday Columbus Day
President’s Day Veterans’ Day

Patriots’ Day Thanksgiving Day
Juneteenth Friday after Thanksgiving
Independence Day Christmas Day

4.5 Personal Leave: The Committee may grant the Interim Superintendent up to two (2) personal
leave days with pay per Contract Year for important legal or personal business which cannot be
conducted outside of the Interim Superintendent’s workday or for emergencies. Unused personal leave
days shall not carry over into a subsequent Contract Year and are not paid out upon separation from
employment.

4.6 Bereavement Leave: The Interim Superintendent may take up to five (5) work days as
bereavement leave with pay to make faneral arrangements and/or to attend the funeral/memorial service
for the Interim Superintendent’s spouse, child, father, mother, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law,
grandparent, grandchild, sister, brother, or other person residing in the Interim Superintendent’s
household. The Interim Superintendent may take up to two (2) workdays as bereavement leave with pay
to attend the funeral/memorial service for the Interim Superintendent’s sister in-law, brother in-law,
nephew, or niece.

5. REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES AND MOBILE PHONE AND EQUIPMENT:

5.1 Reimbursement for Expenses: The Committee shall reimburse the Interim Superintendent in
accordance with Committee policy and procedure for reasonable and necessary, documented expenses
incurred in the performance of his duties upon the presentation by the Interim Superintendent of receipts
submitted within 30 calendar days of incurring such expenses, including, but not limited to expenses for
conferences approved in advance by the Committee, as well as membership dues for organizations
approved in advance by the Committee. Such reimbursement shall not exceed five thousand dollars
($5,000.) in the aggregate per Contract Year. The following dues and/or registration fees do not need
School Committee prior approval but are subject to the $5,000. aggregate limit per Contract Year:

* MASS annual membership fee
« MASS leadership Institute program fee
« Joint MASS and MASC Conference registration fee

No reimbursements shail be made in excess of the five thousand dollar ($5,000.) limit without the prior
written request from the Interim Superintendent and prior written authorization from the Committee after
a vote of the Committee at an Open Meeting.

5.2 Mobile Phone and Equipment: The Committee shall provide the Interim Superintendent with
a mobile phone and a laptop computer for use associated with his work for the Marblehead Public
Schools and de minimis personal use.

6. INSURANCE: The Interim Superintendent may elect to obtain group health insurance
generally available to employees and their dependents in the Marblehead Public Schools on the same
terms and conditions as such insurance is generally available to other non-unionized employees in the
Marblehead Public Schools, and the Interim Superintendent recognizes that the Marblehead School
Cominittee and the Town of Marblehead may change such terms and conditions and such insurance from
time to time. If the Interim Superintendent declines to obtain such health insurance, the Interim
Superintendent shall provide proof of health insurance coverage through another source and shall
complete any required documentation including the Massachusetts Health Insurance Responsibility
Disclosure (“HIRD”) form.

7. DUTIES: The Interim Superintendent shall have charge of the administration of the
Marblehead Public Schools consistent with law and Committee policies and directives. The Interim
Superintendent shall be the chief executive officer of the School Department and shall employ, assign,
direct, evaluate, discipline, and terminate all employees of the Marblehead Public Schools consistent with
law and Committee policy. The Interim Superintendent shall organize, reorganize, and arrange the
administrative and supervisory staff, including instruction and business affairs and shall be responsible
for the operation and management of the school department including the utilization of and accounting for
funds appropriated for the schoo! department as well as all other funds coming under the control of the
school department. The Interim Superintendent shall construct school committee meeting agendas in
consultation with and at the direction of the Committee chairperson. The Interim Superintendent shall
attend all meetings of the Marblehead School Committee, unless excused, and may participate in all
school committee deliberations except when matters relating to the Interim Superintendent’s own
employment and/or this AGREEMENT are under consideration. The Interim Superintendent shall
recommend regulations, rules, policies, and procedures deemed necessary for the good order of the school
departments, and, in general, perform all duties incident to the office of the Interim Superintendent, as
provided by applicable laws and in accordance with the policies and directives of the Committees, as they
may be promulgated or modified from time to time.

8. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION: The Committee shall devote at least a portion of one
meeting before June 30" of each Contract Year to an evaluation of the Interim Superintendent’s
performance and working relationship with the Committee. This performance evaluation shall comply
with applicable law and regulations and be based in part upon performance criteria developed by the
Committee with input from the Interim Superintendent. The Committee shall evaluate the Interim
Superintendent at a meeting held in open session in accordance with the provisions of Massachusetts
General Laws. The Interim Superintendent understands and agrees that his evaluations will be conducted
in an open session meeting of the Committee.

9. LICENSE: The Interim Superintendent hereby represents to the Committee that he is
currently licensed to serve as Superintendent of Schools pursuant to the laws of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts and the Rules and Regulations of the Commissioner of Elementary and Secondary
Education and the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. As a condition of
employment and continued employment, the Superintendent shall maintain, throughout the term of this
AGREEMENT, a valid and appropriate license qualifying him to serve as a Superintendent of Schools in
a school district in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, as required by Massachusetts General Laws, as
such may be amended from time to time. The Interim Superintendent agrees to notify the Committee
within 24 hours of his license being revoked, rescinded, suspended, or lapsed.

10, PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIE, TUITION REIMBURSEMENT:

10.1 Professional Activities: The Interim Superintendent shall devote his full-time, attention,
and energy to the business of the Marblehead Public Schools. However, the Committee encourages the
continuing professional growth of the Interim Superintendent through the Interim Superintendent’s
participation, as he might decide considering the responsibilities of superintendent, in:

A. the operations, programs, conferences, and other activities conducted or sponsored by
local, state, and national schoo! administrator and/or school committee associations;

B. local, state and national conferences, seminars, and courses offered by private
institutions, commissions, or committees related to education; and

Cc. informational meetings with persons whose skills or backgrounds would serve to improve
the capacity of the Interim Superintendent to perform his professional responsibilities for
the School District.

However, except for reimbursement for expenses consistent with Section 5 of this AGREEMENT, no
other funds will be made available for any of the professional activities listed in this Section 10.1.

10.2 Tuition Reimbursement: The Interim Superintendent may request reimbursement for tuition
for graduate-level courses at accredited colleges and universities for courses approved in advance by the
Committee provided that the Interim Superintendent received a grade of “B” or better or a “Pass” grade in
a course only offered on a pass/fail basis. Reimbursement shall not exceed fifteen hundred dollars
($1,500.) in each Contract Year.
11, INDEMNIFICATION:

11.1 In accordance with and to the extent provided by applicable Massachusetts General Laws,
the Committee agrees to provide indemnification to the Interim Superintendent against all uninsured
financial losses arising out of any proceeding, claim, demand, suit or judgment by the reason of alleged
negligence or other conduct resulting in bodily or other injury to any person or damage to the property of
any person committed while the Interim Superintendent is acting within the scope of his employment or
under direction of the Committee. The parties understand and agree that this indemnification provision
shall not apply to actions by the Committee to suspend and/or terminate the Interim Superintendent.

11,2 Mr. Robidoux shall, within three (3) calendar days of the time he is served with any
summons, complaint, process, notice, demand or pleading, deliver a copy of the same to the Committee.

11.3 This Section 11 shall survive the termination of this AGREEMENT.

12, TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT:

12.1 Early Termination by Mutual Agreement: The Interim Superintendent and the Committee
may terminate this AGREEMENT at any time prior to its expiration by mutual agreement.

12.2 Early Termination By the Committee with Cause: During the term of this AGREEMENT,
the Committee may suspend the Interim Superintendent from his position as Interim Superintendent
and/or may terminate his employment and this Employment AGREEMENT for insubordination,
incompetency, neglect of duty, or other cause. “Cause” herein shall be defined as any ground put forth by
the Committee in good faith that is not arbitrary, irrational, unreasonable or irrelevant to the task of
building and maintaining an efficient school system. Prior to any termination for cause, the Committee
shall provide the Interim Superintendent with written notice of the reason, reasons, charge or charges
against the Interim Superintendent, and the grounds on which such reason(s) or charge(s) is based.
Provided that the Interim Superintendent has made a request in writing to the Chairperson of the
Committee within five (5) calendar days of receipt of such written notice, the Committee shall provide the
Interim Superintendent with a hearing upon said reason(s) or charge(s). Such hearing shall be conducted
in accordance with the provisions of the Open Meeting Law, Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 30A.
There shall be no right to present witnesses and no right to confront or cross-examine witnesses. The
Interim Superintendent shall be entitled to have his legal counsel present to advise him. The Interim
Superintendent shal! be responsible for paying all fees and costs associated with such legal counsel. The
decision of the Committee, after such hearing, if any, shall be final and binding, subject to such judicial
review as may be provided under applicable law. The Interim Superintendent may request to use his
accrued vacation days prior to his separation from employment and/or the Committee may schedule the
Interim Superintendent for vacation days prior to his final day of employment. In the event of termination
pursuant to this paragraph, the Committee shall not be required to pay, and the Interim Superintendent
shall not be entitled to receive salary payments and benefits payable after the effective date of
termination.

12.3 Early Termination by the Interim Superintendent: The Interim Superintendent may terminate
his employment by submitting his written resignation to the Committee with as much advance notice as
possible but no less than ninety (90) calendar days advance notice. In the event of termination pursuant to
this paragraph, the Committee shall not be required to pay, and the Interim Superintendent shall not be
entitled to receive salary payments and benefits payable after the effective date of the Interim
Superintendent’s resignation. The Interim Superintendent may request to use his accrued vacation days
prior to his separation from employment and/or the Committee may schedule the Interim Superintendent
for vacation days prior to his final day of employment.

12.4 Barly Termination By the Committee: The Committee may terminate this Employment
AGREEMENT and the Interim Superintendent’s employment at any time on or prior to June 30, 2026
without cause by providing the Interim Superintendent with at least ninety (90) calendar days written
notice and paying the Interim Superintendent an early termination payment of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) minus withholdings for state and federal taxes and other withholdings required by law or
authorized by the Interim Superintendent. In the event of termination pursuant to this paragraph, with the
exception of the early termination payment which shall be paid on or by the effective date of termination,
the Committee shall not be required to pay, and the Interim Superintendent shall not be entitled to receive
salary payments and benefits payable after the effective date of termination. The Interim Superintendent
may request to use his accrued vacation days prior to his separation from employment and/or the
Committee may schedule the Interim Superintendent for vacation days prior to his final day of
employment. This Section 12.4 is not applicable to early terminations of this AGREEMENT pursuant to
Sections 12.1, 12.2, 12..3 or 12.5 or to the failure of the Committee to reappoint the Interim
Superintendent,

12.5 For Disability: Subject to applicable law, if the Interim Superintendent is absent from work
on account of a disability for more than one hundred (100) calendar days, the Committee shall have the
option of terminating his employment and this Employment AGREEMENT. If the Committee exercises
its option to terminate the Interim Superintendent’s employment and this Employment AGREEMENT,
the Interim Superintendent shall not be entitled to receive salary payments and benefits payable after the
effective date of such termination.

13. NOTICES: All notices required or desired to be given under this AGREEMENT wiil be
deemed to be served if in writing and delivered by in-hand delivery to the Interim Superintendent or sent
by certified mail to the Interim Superintendent’s residence in the case of the Interim Superintendent, or
sent by certified mail to its central office in the case of the Committee with a copy sent by certified mail
to the home address of the Chairperson of the Committee.

14. ENTIRE AGREEMENT: This AGREEMENT contains the whole agreement between the
Committee and the Interim Superintendent. There have been no inducements, promises, terms, conditions,
or obligations made or entered into by either party other than those set forth herein. No modification of or
addition to this AGREEMENT shall be effective unless and until set forth in writing and signed by the
parties.

15. SEVERABILITY: If any term(s) or provision(s) of this AGREEMENT is held to be invalid
or unenforceable for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity and enforceability of the
remaining terms and provisions shall not be affected, and such invalid and/or unenforceable term(s)
and/or provision(s) shall be modified to the extent necessary to make it or them enforceable.

16. GOVERNING LAW: This AGREEMENT shall be interpreted, enforced, governed and
construed under and in accordance with the flaws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

17. COUNTERPARTS: This AGREEMENT shall be executed in two counterparts, each of
which shall be deemed fo be an original and both of which taken together will be deemed one and the

same instrument,
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have caused this AGREEMENT to be subscribed in duplicate on
this day of , 2024,

John Robidoux, Interim Superintendent

ON BEHALF OF THE MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE
BY:

Sarah Fox, Chairperson
Marbichead School Committee
