        ANNUAL
     TOWN REPORT
    OF THE YEAR 2008



MARBLEHEAD, MASSACHUSETTS
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Board of Selectmen                               3
Warrant for Annual Town Meeting                  7
May 5, 2008 and Annual
Town Election May 12, 2008
Results of Annual Town Meeting                   21
May 5- 6, 2008
Results of Annual Town Election                  64
May 12, 2008
Warrant for Presidential Primary                 69
February 5, 2008
Results for the Presidential Primary             71
February 5, 2008
Warrant for Special State Election               74
March 4, 2008
Results of Special State Election                75
March 4, 2008
Warrant for Special Election                     76
June 17, 2008
Results for Special Election                     77
June 17, 2008
Warrant for State Primary                        79
September 16, 2008
Results for State Primary                        80
September 16, 2008
Warrant for State Election                       83
November 4, 1008
Results for State Election                       87
November 4, 2008
Officials Elected                                92
Officials Appointed                              95
Vital Records of 2008 - # of                    107
births/marriages/deaths and causes/death
Department Reports:
Abbot Public Library                            110
Board of Assessors                              113
Board of Health                                 115
Building Commissioner and Inspectional          129
Services
Cable TV Oversight Committee                    131




                                           1
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Cemetery Department                             132
Conservation Commission                         134
Council on Aging                                136
Department of Public Works                      140
Engineering Department                          142
Financial Services                              143
Fire Department                                 145
Fort Sewall Oversight Committee                 157
Harbors and Waters                              159
Marblehead Cultural Council                     161
Marblehead Historical Commission                163
Marblehead Housing Authority                    165
Metropolitan Area Planning Council              173
Municipal Light Department                      184
Old and Historic Districts Commission           192
Planning Board                                  193
Police Department                               195
Recreation, Parks & Forestry                    201
Sealer of Weights & Measures                    211
Shellfish Constables                            212
Task Force Against Discrimination               213
Veterans’ Agent                                 215
Water and Sewer Commission                      216
Zoning Board of Appeals                         225
School Reports
Marblehead School Committee members             226
organization and meetings
Admission Requirements                          226
No School Announcement/School Hours             227
Superintendent of Schools                       227
Marblehead School Committee Report              230
Administration, Faculty and Staff               233
2008 MCAS Summary                               248
Scholastic Aptitude Test Scores (SAT)           252
5 year history
Marblehead High School Class of 2008            253
Enrollment Summaries                            260
Town Warrant – Annual Town Meeting              262
May 4, 2009




                                        2
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                         BOARD OF SELECTMEN

The Board of Selectmen meets on the second and fourth Wednesday of each month
at 7:30 PM in their Meeting Room in Abbot Hall. All meetings are open to the
public and are posted as required by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts’ Open
Meeting Law. The board is comprised of five members, each elected annually.
Current members of the Board of Selectmen include: Jackie Belf-Becker, Harry C.
Christensen, Judith R. Jacobi, James E. Nye and William L.Woodfin II. Mrs. Belf-
Becker was elected unanimously by her colleagues to serve as our chairman until
the next annual election in May 2009.

In 2008, the 1893 bronze ship’s bell from the USS Marblehead (C-11) was
accidentally discovered by Marblehead native Christopher Benning, during a tour of
a federal warehouse while attending a seminar at the San Francisco Maritime
National Historic Park. The USS Marblehead, a Montgomery-class cruiser, was
built in Boston’s Naval Shipyard, launched in 1892 and commissioned as a United
States Naval vessel in 1894. The USS Marblehead was involved in spirited action
off Cuba during the Spanish-American War and her log indicates that she was
berthed in San Francisco Bay at the time of the 1906 earthquake. The USS
Marblehead was decommissioned in 1919 and removed from the Navy’s registry of
vessels in 1921. The Board of Selectmen recognize the following individuals who
assisted in coordinating the return of this bell to its proper home in Marblehead for
permanent display: Christopher Benning, late Town Counsel Paul L. Lausier,
Wayne Butler, William Conly and their colleagues on the Marblehead Historical
Commission and Mr. David Smith of Marblehead. In order to provide a place of
honor for the display of this bell in Abbot Hall’s transept (next to the bell from its
successor USS Marblehead (CL-12) commissioned in 1923 which saw action during
WWII), a new double display pedestal was constructed by William Kuker, with
materials donated by the Tower School and Blue Anchor Woodworkers and
finished by Scott Campbell of John W. Campbell & Son Painters of Marblehead.
The Board of Selectmen gratefully accepted this bell on behalf of the townspeople
of Marblehead along with the gift of the skills of these craftspeople to construct its
dais at no cost to the Town.

The reconstruction of the Veteran’s Memorial Causeway seawall was completed
during 2008. The project involved the complete reconstruction of the seaward-side
wall that supports the Ocean Avenue causeway and passage to Marblehead Neck.
The existing sea wall was built in 1911and had deteriorated considerably over time
due to alkali silica reaction, heavy wave action from hurricanes and major storm
events.




                                          3
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


The total replacement of the sea wall with a curvilinear steel-reinforced replacement
engineered to withstand a 100 year storm event was constructed by RDA-PIHL and
was completed under budget and on time, in accordance with an aggressive
construction schedule overseen by the town administrator, Marblehead’s department
heads and Vine Associates, Inc. to ensure adequate construction design and quality
standards. The Board believes that this causeway seawall should faithfully serve
the future citizens of Marblehead for many decades to come.

The Town’s perambulation of the town’s public ways was held on May 17, 2008 as
an annual event sponsored by the Board for Selectman and the Marblehead
Conservancy to publicize town public ways and the Town’s role in ensuring that
they remain passable and unfettered by private intrusion.

As the local licensing authority, the selectmen renewed and/or issued the following
licenses concerning its licensed serving establishments:

Annual All Alcoholic Restaurant (15)
Annual All Alcoholic – Package Store (5)
Annual All Alcoholic Fraternal Club (3)
Annual All Alcoholic Club (3)
Season All Alcoholic Club (2)
Annual Wine & Malt – Package (1)
Annual Wine & Malt Restaurant (7 Day) (4)
Annual Common Victualler (40)
Annual Entertainment (18)
Sunday Entertainment (14)
Second Hand Dealers (6)
Automatic Amusement Device (15)
Annual Auto Class II (1)
Annual Lodging (3)

During 2008, the Board of Selectmen was proud to recognize the extraordinary
athletic achievements of two Marblehead residents: Shalane Flanagan who was the
bronze medalist in the 10,000 meter women’s track event at the 2008 Olympics and
Maureen McKinnon-Tucker who was the gold medalist in the two person keel
boarding sailing event at the 2008 Paralympics.

The Town received several grants from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and
other sources including a priority development fund grant to examine how a MGL
Chapter 40R ‘smart growth’ initiative could be adopted by Marblehead’s annual




                                         4
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


town meeting for the development of additional affordable housing. In addition, the
Town also received funding for the development of a harbor master plan to ensure
the proper stewardship of this asset for generations of Marbleheaders to come.

The Board of Selectmen was also pleased to authorize the placement of a plaque at
Fort Sewall during 2008 to commemorate Marbleheaders’ defense of the USS
Constitution as she outran two British man-o-war vessels during the War of 1812
and memorialized her subsequent visits to Marblehead during 1931 and 1997. The
Board of Selectmen recognizes the efforts of Fred Goddard, Thomas McNulty,
former Constitution Commander David Cashman and the Fort Sewall preservation
committee for their efforts to memorialize these important events for the
remembrance of future generations of Marbleheaders.

The Board recognizes and thanks the countless volunteers throughout the boards
and committees of its Town government and local philanthropic organizations that
devote substantial amounts of their personal time working for the betterment of
Marblehead as well as all of those who contributed financially to the various funds
established for the benefit of the Town. Without the dedication, involvement and
generosity of these volunteers and her citizens , Marblehead could not operate as
effectively as she has for over 3 centuries. The Board believes that it is because of
the citizenry’s personal sense of ownership and pride that Marblehead remains the
wonderful place it is which we are all proud to call home. The Board encourages
publicly spirited citizens to volunteer to serve the Town in a role that they believe
can add value/expertise as this is what has made Marblehead and her government
successful for the benefit of future generations that will eventually assume the role
as her stewards.

The Board of Selectmen is aware of the personal financial difficulties of many of its
citizens as well as the town, the Commonwealth and the nation as a whole to
weather the tough economic climate that we have faced in the past year and is
forecast for at least the next 18 months. The Board pledges that it will strive to
apply its best judgment to exercise frugality, care and responsible stewardship of
Marblehead’s assets, resources and programs during these tough economic times.
The Board and the Town’s management team will endeavor to do the best it can to
maintain the current level and quality of services while mindful of the economic
limitations of its citizens to pay for these services during our nation’s current
economic difficulties. You have our promise that we will do the very best we can to
responsibly manage the Town of Marblehead for her current citizens and
generations to come.




                                         5
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


The Board of Selectmen recognizes the efforts of Town Administrator Anthony M.
Sasso, Town Planner Rebecca L. Curran, the Selectmen’s office staff of Deborah
Fadden, Kyle Wiley and Jane Tricomi (who joined the office in March replacing
Patricia Cerrutti who earned a well deserved retirement) and Marblehead’s
department heads and employees for serving the citizens of Marblehead and the
Board of Selectmen with diligence and care.

The Board extends its best wishes to all of the citizens of the Town of Marblehead
whom we faithfully and conscientiously endeavor to represent.

Whip & Marblehead Forever!

Steadfast in your service,

Jackie Belf-Becker, Chairman
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.,
Judith R. Jacobi
James E. Nye
William L. Woodfin, II




                                        6
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                  WARRANT – ANNUAL TOWN MEETING
                             MAY 5, 2008

Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
County of Essex, SS
To Any Constable in the Town of Marblehead
Greeting:

         You are hereby required and directed in the name of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts to warn and give notice to the inhabitants of Marblehead, qualified to
vote in elections and in town affairs, to meet at the Marblehead Veterans Middle
School Auditorium, Duncan Sleigh Square, 217 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA,
on Monday, the fifth day of May next A. D. 2008 (it being the first Monday in May)
at 7:45 o’clock in the afternoon to act on the following articles in the Warrant for
said meeting as follows:

Article 1 Articles in Numerical Order
To see if the Town will vote to adopt an order requiring articles in the Warrant to be
taken up in their numerical order, as requested by the Selectmen.

Article 2 Reports of Town Officers and Committees
To receive the report of the Town Accountant, the reports of the Town Officers, and
special Committees and act thereon.

Article 3 Lease Town Property
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to let or
lease such land, buildings or structures owned by the Town on such terms as they
may determine, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board
of Selectmen.

Article 4 Accept Trust Property
To see if the Town will vote to accept certain trust property, gifts or grants to be
administered by the Town or modify the terms thereof, or take any other action
relative thereto, as sponsored by Town Counsel.

Article 5 Assume Liability
To see if the Town will assume liability in the manner provided by Section 29 of
Chapter 91 of the General Laws, for all damages that may be incurred by work to be
performed by the Massachusetts Highway Department for the improvement,
development, maintenance and protection of tidal and non tidal rivers and streams,




                                          7
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


harbors, tidewaters, foreshores and shores along a public beach in accordance with
Section 11 of Chapter 91 of the General Laws and authorize the Selectmen to
execute and deliver a bond of indemnity therefor to the Commonwealth, or take any
other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 6 Unpaid Accounts
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of
money to provide for the payment of any unpaid accounts brought forward from
previous years, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Director.

Article 7 Revolving Funds
To see if the Town will vote to authorize various revolving funds as required by
M.G.L. c 44 s.53E ½, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 8 North Shore Regional Vocational School District
To see if the Town will vote to approve the gross operating and maintenance budget
of the North Shore Technical High School and appropriate a sum of money for the
Town’s assessment of the same, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored
by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 9 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Administrative)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the By-laws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Administrative Pay Schedule; to strike out the pay schedule
as it relates to Administrative personnel, substitute in place thereof the following
new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of
money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 10 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Seasonal and
Temporary Personnel)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the By-laws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Seasonal and Temporary Personnel Pay Schedules; strike out
the pay schedules as they relate to seasonal and temporary personnel, substitute in
place thereof the following new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds
and/or appropriate a sum of money to make said new pay schedules effective, or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.




                                         8
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Article 11 Pay Schedule and Reclassification (Traffic Supervisors)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the By-laws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Traffic Supervisors Pay Schedule; to waive the pay schedule
as it relates to Traffic Supervisor personnel, substitute in place thereof the following
new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of
money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 12 Ratification of Salary By-law
To see if the Town will vote to ratify certain actions taken by the Compensation
Committee under the 1955 Salary By-law, Section 3(e) as last amended and amend
the classification of positions as follows:

1.        Reclassify and change job title in the Administrative Pay schedule:
a.                 Part-time Senior Clerk position in the Fire Department
reclassified as a part-time Administrative Clerk Group 50.
Or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Compensation
Committee.

Article 13 Compensation - Town Officers
To see if the Town will vote to revise the compensation of the Town Clerk as the
Town by vote may determine and to transfer from available funds and/or
appropriate a sum of money to make said revision effective or take any other action
relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 14 Salaries of Public Employees Serving in the Military
To vote that the Town of Marblehead accept Chapter 137 of the Acts of 2003, as
amended by Chapter 77 of the Acts of 2005, such acceptance shall be effective on
July 1, 2007. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 15 Walls and Fences
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for the
construction and reconstruction of walls and fences for the protection of highways
and property, including engineering services in connection therewith; to authorize
the appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or
otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefor; to determine whether this
appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.




                                           9
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Article 16 Water and Sewer Commission Claims
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the
Board of Selectmen acting jointly to compromise any claims for damages or suits
pending against the Town of Marblehead on account of acts which may have
occurred during the construction of the water, sewer and storm water system or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 17 Storm Drainage Construction
 To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the construction or
reconstruction of sewers for surface drainage purposes, and to authorize the
appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise,
any land or easements necessary therefor, and to raise the money for such purposes
by the issue of bonds or notes or in any other manner, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 18 Sewer Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction or reconstruction of sewers for
sanitary purposes and for sewerage disposal, pump stations, original pumping
equipment, metering equipment, safety equipment, replacement of said equipment,
engineering, consultants, surveys, including revenue studies and other general
Sewer Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or
easements necessary to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 19 Water Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction, reconstruction and extending of
water mains, replacement of water meters, appurtenances, engineering, consultants,
surveys including revenue studies and other general Water Department purposes,
and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by
purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements necessary to take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 20 Fiscal 2008 School Budget Additional Appropriation
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of
money to fund additional expenses of the fiscal 2008 school budget, said sum to be




                                        10
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


added to Article 56, Item 101, Schools, as voted at Town Meeting in May 2007, or
take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 21 Purchase Angenica property on Longview Drive
To see it the Town will vote to purchase or otherwise acquire a certain parcel of
land owned by Mario and Camille Angenica and located on Longview Drive West
(Assessor Map 21 Lot 19) for the purpose of open space; to determine whether this
appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; to take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by Jeffrey F. Stracka and others.

Article 22 Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for
remodeling, reconstructing and making extraordinary repairs to existing Town
buildings and purchase necessary equipment including computer hardware and
software to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or
otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen.

Article 23 Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
To see if the Town will raise and appropriate any sums of money for the purchase of
equipment for the several departments of the Town; to authorize the Board of
Selectmen to trade old equipment as part of the purchase price; to determine
whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Committee.

Article 24 Financial Assistance for Conservation
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Conservation Commission and other
proper officers of the Town to apply for financial assistance from public and private
sources to be expended by the Conservation Commission for the purchase of vacant
land and any other purpose, authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General
Laws as amended, or to reimburse the Town for sums of money expended for such
purposes, or both, and to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Conservation Commission.

Article 25 Amend Zoning Bylaw to Add an Alternate Member to the Planning
Board
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Marblehead Zoning Bylaw as follows:
“Article I, Section 200-4 ‘Board of Appeals,’” to be renumbered as “Article I,
Section 200-4(A) ‘Board of Appeals.’” Article I, to add the following new Section
200-4(B) “Planning Board,” to read as follows: A. Membership; Special Permit




                                        11
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Granting Authority. Where the Planning Board is authorized by this Bylaw to
determine whether to grant, deny or grant with conditions a special permit, and is
acting in said capacity, the Planning Board shall be comprised of five members and
one associate member. B. Associate Members. Associate members shall be
appointed by a majority vote of the Board of Selectmen and the Planning Board.” or
to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Planning Board.

Article 26 Amend General Bylaws to Add an Alternate Member to the
Planning Board
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Marblehead General Bylaws as follows:
Chapter 24 “Boards, Commissions and Committees,” Article IV “Planning Board,”
Section 24-6 “Membership,” to add the following clause and sentence to the end of
the first sentence thereof: “provided, however, that in accordance with Section 200-
4(B) of the Zoning Bylaw and G.L. c. 40A, § 9, the Planning Board shall be
comprised of five members and one associate member where it is authorized by the
Zoning Bylaw to determine whether to grant, deny or grant with conditions a special
permit, and is acting in said capacity.” or to take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Panning Board.

Article 27 Amend the Zoning Bylaw
To see if the town will vote to amend the zoning bylaw as follows: Article II
Definitions Section 200-7 meanings of words LOT AREA which presently reads:
“The horizontal area within the exterior lines of the lot, exclusive of any area in a
street, and exclusive of any horizontal area subject to oceanic tidal action but below
mean high water; except that ½ of any private right-of-way common to the
adjoining lots may be included in the lot area to the extent that the title in fee simple
to the private right-of-way rests with the lot owner.” By removing the words “except
that ½ of any private right-of-way common to the adjoining lots may be included in
the lot area to the extent that the title in fee simple to the private right-of-way rests
with the lot owner” to read instead “The horizontal area within the exterior lines of
the lot, exclusive of any area in a street, and exclusive of any horizontal area subject
to oceanic tidal action but below mean high water,” or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Planning Board.

Article 28 Amend Zoning Map Rezoning a Single Residence Area to Business
To see if the Town will vote to revise the Zoning Map of the Town by taking an
area that is presently zoned Single Residence and changing its designation to
Business. This area to be rezoned is described as follows: The lot of land with
building thereon know as and numbered 242-260 Humphrey Street, Marblehead,
Massachusetts, being Assessor’s Map 4, Parcel 14, as shown on the plan entitled




                                          12
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


“Site Plan 242-260 Humphrey Street, Marblehead, MA, Land of Beach Bluff,
LLC”, dated November 7, 2006, prepared by Kane Land Surveyors, a copy of
which plan is on file in the Office of the Town Clerk, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by Carl King and others.

Article 29 To amend the existing Zoning Bylaw 200.08 to include the following
paragraphs (c, d and e) as follows:
c. Trailer. Any of the various types of vehicles which depend for mobility on an
attached vehicle or other propelling apparatus, and which are used, or may be used,
for human habitation or for business purposes. Any trailer which by removal of
wheels, by anchoring to a foundation, by incorporation with a fixed structure or
otherwise has its mobility reduced, shall never the less be considered as a “trailer”
within the scope of this Bylaw, except trailers having a gross weight of less than one
thousand pounds and whose height does not exceed four feet.
d. Accessory Trailer/Residential Districts. A non commercial trailer may be stored
in a residential district only on premises owned or occupied by the owner of the
trailer, and only if either within or to the rear of the principal building, and not
within any required yard. Such trailer may not be used for habitation, storage of
materials, or any business purposes.
e. Non Residential Districts. Trailer may be stored as an accessory use in non
residential districts provided that no such trailer shall be used for habitation of the
storage of goods or merchandise. Sponsored by Alfred Doherty and others.

Article 30 Improvements at Gerry Playground
To see if the Town will vote to approve a sum of money for the construction of a
pier and related land side improvements at Gerry playground or take any other
action related thereto. Sponsored by Harbors and Waters.

Article 31 Delegation of Designation of the Permitting Authority for Trench
Safety
To see if the Town will, pursuant to G.L. c 82A §2, vote to designate the Board of
Selectmen as the means by which the Town shall designate the Board or Officer to
issue permits for the purpose of creating a trench as that term is defined by G.L. c.
82A §4 and 520 CMR 14.00 (collectively the “Trench Safety Law”) and that the
Board of Selectmen may adopt reasonable regulations for the carrying out of said
Trench Safety Law, or to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.




                                         13
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Article 32 Petition the Legislature Relative to the Office of Chief of the
Marblehead Fire Department
To vote to petition the Legislature to amend Chapter 216 of the Acts of 1939, by
striking out the words in Section 1, at sentence 3, “Appointments to such office
shall be made after a competitive civil service examination open only to citizens of
said town;” and inserting in place thereof the following: “Appointments to such
office shall be made after a departmental civil service promotional examination.”
Sponsored by the Chief of Fire Department.

Article 33 Accept the Affordable Housing Trust Fund, General Laws Chapter
44 Section 55C
To see if the Town will vote to accept the provisions of General Laws Chapter 44
Section 55C establishing a trust to be known as the Marblehead Affordable Housing
Trust Fund, whose purpose shall be to provide for the creation and preservation of
affordable housing in the Town for the benefit of low and moderate income
households, or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen/Smart Growth Committee.

Article 34 Amend the General By-Laws of the Town and Create an
Affordable Housing Trust Fund
To see if the Town will vote to amend the General By-Laws of the Town by adding
the following in Chapter 24 as Article IX as follows:

ARTICLE IX MARBLEHEAD AFFORDABLE HOUSING TRUST FUND

        24-23. Purpose; Membership; Appointment

There shall be a board of trustees of the Marblehead Affordable Housing Trust Fund
established by the vote under Article 34 of the Warrant for the 2008 Annual Town
Meeting, in this section called the board, which shall include nine (9) trustees,
including all of the members of the Board of Selectmen, with the remaining
members to be appointed by the Board of Selectmen. Trustees shall serve for a term
not to exceed two (2) years. A quorum of the board of trustees shall be five (5)
members.

        24-24. Powers

        The powers of the board, all of which shall be carried on in furtherance of
the purposes set forth in General Laws Chapter 44 Section 55C, shall include the
following:




                                        14
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



(A)             subject to Town Meeting approval, to accept and receive real
property, by gift, grant, devise, or transfer from any person, firm, corporation or
other public or private entity;

(B)               to accept and receive tangible property or financial gifts, by gift,
grant, devise, or transfer from any person, firm, corporation or other public or
private entity, including without limitation grants of funds or other property, not real
property, tendered to the trust in connection with provisions of the Town of
Marblehead Zoning By-law or any other Town by-law;

(C)     subject to Town Meeting approval, to purchase and retain real property;

(D)     to purchase and retain personal property, including without restriction
investments that yield a high rate of income or no income;

(E)            subject to Town Meeting approval, to sell, lease, exchange, transfer
or convey any real property at public auction or by private contract for such
consideration and on such terms as to credit or otherwise, and to make such
contracts and enter into such undertaking relative to trust property as the board
deems advisable notwithstanding the length of any such lease or contract;

(F) to sell, lease, exchange, transfer or convey any personal, property at public
auction or by private contract for such consideration and on such terms as to credit
or otherwise, and to make such contracts and enter into such undertaking relative to
trust property as the board deems advisable notwithstanding the length of any such
lease or contract;

(G)            to execute, acknowledge and deliver deeds, assignments, transfers,
pledges, leases, covenants, contracts, promissory notes, releases and other
instruments sealed or unsealed, necessary, proper or incident to any transaction in
which the board engages for the accomplishment of the purposes of the trust and if
given proper authority as noted above;

(H)             to employ advisors and agents, such as accountants, appraisers and
lawyers as the board deems necessary;

(I)            to pay reasonable compensation and expenses to all advisors and
agents and to apportion such compensation between income and principal as the
board deems advisable;




                                          15
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



(J)            to apportion receipts and charges between incomes and principal as
the board deems advisable, to amortize premiums and establish sinking funds for
such purpose, and to create reserves for depreciation depletion or otherwise;

(K)             to participate in any reorganization, recapitalization, merger or
similar transactions; and to give proxies or powers of attorney with or without
power of substitution to vote any securities or certificates of interest; and to consent
to any contract, lease, mortgage, purchase or sale of property, by or between any
corporation and any other corporation or person;

(L)              to deposit any security with any protective reorganization
committee, and to delegate to such committee such powers and authority with
relation thereto as the board may deem proper and to pay, out of trust property, such
portion of expenses and compensation of such committee as the board may deem
necessary and appropriate;

(M)             to carry property for accounting purposes other than acquisition date
values;

(N)             to borrow money on such terms and conditions and from such
sources as the board deems advisable and to mortgage and pledge trust assets as
collateral;

(O)             to make distributions or divisions of principal in kind;

(P)            to compromise, attribute, defend, enforce, release, settle or
otherwise adjust claims in favor or against the trust, including claims for taxes, and
to accept any property, either in total or partial satisfaction of any indebtedness or
other obligation, and subject to the provisions of Massachusetts General Laws,
Chapter 44, Section 55C, to continue to hold the same for such period of time as the
board may deem appropriate;

(Q)             to manage or improve real property;

(R)            subject to approval of Town Meeting, to abandon any property
which the board determined not to be worth retaining;

(S)             to hold all or part of the trust property uninvested for such purposes
and for such time as the board may deem appropriate;




                                          16
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



(T)            to extend the time for payment of any obligation to the trust.

(U)     to adopt rules and regulations for the purpose of carrying out its
        responsibilities and powers and in furtherance of the provisions hereof .

And to do all of the foregoing without funding from the Town of Marblehead but by
receipts generated and/or earned, received, bequeathed, gifted or devised in
accordance herewith. Or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board
of Selectmen/Smart Growth Committee.

Article 35 Land Acquisition, Naugus Avenue
To see if the Town of Marblehead will vote to acquire for recreation purposes a fee
simple interest in certain parcel(s) of land totaling approximately three acres,
commonly known as the WESX property, located on Naugus Avenue, owned by
ATCO Inc. or the Trust for Public Land, which are shown on Marblehead
Assessors Maps as Map 176 Lot 16, which land shall be held in the care and
custody of the Board of Selectmen for recreation purposes; that a sum of money be
appropriated for such purpose and to raise such appropriation, the Treasurer be
authorized to borrow under and pursuant to Chapter 44, Section 7 and 8C, of the
General Laws or any other enabling authority, and to issue bonds or notes of the
Town therefore; provided that the amount authorized to be borrowed hereunder
shall be contingent upon the vote of the Town Election to exempt from the
provisions of Proposition 2-1/2, so called, the amount required to satisfy the
obligations, including principal and interest, under the bonds; and further that the
Board of Selectmen shall be authorized to file on behalf of the Town of Marblehead
any and all applications deemed necessary for grants and /or reimbursements from
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts or the United States under the Self-Help Act
(Chapter 132A, Section 11) and/or any other state or federal programs including
those in aid recreation land acquisition and to receive and accept such grants and
reimbursements, including grants from private parties, for this purpose and/or any
others in any way connected with the scope of this Article; and the conjunction with
the Board of Selectmen shall be authorized to transfer the amount of any financial
contributions received by the Town of Marblehead designated for the purchase of
the Naugus Avenue land to the Trust for Public Land; and the Board of Selectmen
shall be authorized to enter into all agreements and to execute any and all
instruments as may be necessary on behalf of The Town of Marblehead to affect
said purchase, or take any other action in relation thereto. Sponsored by Board of
Selectmen.




                                        17
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Article 36 Payment in Lieu of Tax (“PILOT”) Agreement
To vote to approve the payment in lieu of Tax (“PILOT”) Agreement between the
Town of Marblehead and the Alliance Health of Massachusetts, Inc., with respect to
the property known as the Devereux House and located at 39 Lafayette Street,
Marblehead, Massachusetts. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen/Board of
Assessors.

Article 37 Landfill Assessment and Regulatory Compliance Activities
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for continued water quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk
assessment, engineering and any other services related to the Old Landfill; to
determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or
take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Health.

Article 38 School Department Computer, Support Equipment, and
Technology Infrastructure.
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
purchasing computers, technology infrastructure, support software and equipment
and necessary accessory furnishings and to raise the money for these purposes by
the issuance of bonds or notes or in any other manner, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 39 Schools Construction and or Renovation Program
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
remodeling, constructing, furnishing or making extraordinary repairs, including all
professional feasibility studies, design, architectural and engineering fees, to the
Gerry, Coffin, Bell, Eveleth, Glover, Village, Veterans Middle and High School
and/or any other schools and their respective playing fields, and to raise the money
for these purposes by the issue of bonds or notes or in any other manner, or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 40 Transfer of Proceeds from Marblehead Veterans Middle School
To see if the Town will vote to transfer the remaining proceeds of the borrowing for
the Marblehead Veterans Middle School project authorized under votes of the Town
passed November 5, 2001 for the purpose of remodeling, reconstructing and making
extraordinary repairs to, including professional and architectural and engineering
fees, the present Village School and the present Gerry, Glover and Eveleth Schools.
Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 41 School Department, Classroom Door and Lock Security Initiative




                                        18
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
purchasing security apparatus and appropriate door and lock hardware and other
materials for classrooms and other spaces for the schools for the purpose of
classroom, meeting room and office security during school lock downs and to raise
the money for these purposes by the issuance of bonds or notes or in any other
manner, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the School
Committee.

Article 42 Fiscal 2008 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, to defray the
necessary and usual expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal
year beginning July 1, 2007, to be added to Article 56 of the May 2007 Annual
Town Meeting, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the
Finance Department.

Article 43 Available Funds Appropriate to Reduce Tax Rate
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate free cash balance in the hands of the
Town Treasurer, including any surplus or part of any surplus, in the Water, Sewer,
Harbor and Waters and Electric Light Departments for the use of the Assessors in
making the tax rate or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Finance Department.

Article 44 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the necessary and
usual expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2008, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Finance
Department.

Article 45 Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the supplemental
expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning July
1, 2008, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Finance
Department.

You are hereby further required and directed to notify and warn the Inhabitants of
the Town of Marblehead aforesaid who are qualified to vote in elections and in
Town affairs to subsequently meet at the several designated polling places in their
respective precincts in said Marblehead to wit:




                                        19
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


In Precinct 1 - Polling Place –
Old Town House
In Precinct 2 - Polling Place –
Star Of The Sea Community Center
In Precinct 3 - Polling Place –
Star Of The Sea Community Center
In Precinct 4 - Polling Place –
Star Of The Sea Community Center
In Precinct 5 - Polling Place –
Marblehead Community Center
In Precinct 6 - Polling Place –
Marblehead Community Center
In Precinct 7 - Polling Place –
Marblehead Community Center

on Monday, the 12th day of May next A.D. 2008 (it being the second Monday in
May) at 7 o’clock in the forenoon then and there to bring into the precinct officers
of their respective precincts their votes on one ballot for the following-named Town
Officers to wit:

5 Selectmen
1 Assessor
1 Cemetery Commissioner
1 Cemetery Commissioner for a 2 year
   unexpired term
1 Board of Health
1 Housing Authority
2 Library Trustees
1 Electric Light Commissioner
1 Moderator
2 Planning Board
1 Planning Board for a 2 year unexpired
   term
5 Recreation & Park Commissioners
2 School Committee
2 Water and Sewer Commissioners

For these purposes the polls will be open at each and all of said precincts at 7
o’clock in the forenoon and will be closed at 8 o’clock in the afternoon at each and
all of said precincts and you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested




                                          20
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


copies thereof at Abbot Hall and ten (10) other conspicuous places in Town as
required by the By-laws not later than thirty (30) days after being closed.
Hereof fail not and make due return of this Warrant or a certified copy thereof with
our doings thereon, to each of the several precinct wardens at the time and place of
meetings aforesaid and to the Town Clerk as soon as may be before the said
meetings.

Given under our hands at Marblehead aforesaid this 13th day of February 2008.
                          Harry C. Christensen, Jr., Chairman
                          Jackie Belf-Becker
                          Judith R. Jacobi
                          James E. Nye
                          William L. Woodfin, II
                          Selectmen of Marblehead

True Copy Attest
Cabot W. Dodge- Constable




                                        21
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                         TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD
                            TOWN MEETING
                            May 5th & 6th 2008


        Pursuant to the warrant the inhabitants assembled at the Veterans Middle
School Performing Art Center.
        At 7:48PM a quorum being present the Moderator called the meeting to
order.

ARTICLE 1                Articles in Numerical Order
                         VOTED
                         That the articles be taken up in their numerical order.

ARTICLE 2                 Reports of Town Officers and Committees
                         VOTED
                         To receive the report of the Town Accountant, the
                         reports of the Town Officers, and Special Committees.

ARTICLE 3                Lease Town Property
                         VOTED
                         To allow the Board of Selectmen and School Committee
                         to let or lease such land, buildings or structures owed by
                         the Town on such terms as they may determine.

ARTICLE 4                Accept Trust Property
                         VOTED
                         To authorize and direct the Board of Selectmen, with
                         approval of Town Counsel as to form, to execute and
                         record all necessary and appropriate documents to
                         effectuate the acceptance of the gift of the following
                         parcels of land from the Estate of Martha T. Knight said
                         land to be managed by and held in the care, custody and
                         control of the Conservation Commission for
                         conservation and wildlife purposes and which is located
                         off of West Shore Drive consisting of approximately one
                         acre:

                         The land represented on a deed from Penni to Russell
                         and Martha Knight found in Book 6307 Page 504 at the




                                       22
            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


             Essex South Registry of Deeds representing .0973 acres
             +/-, and

             The land represented on a deed from Messenger to
             Russell and Martha Knight found at Book 6123 Page 767
             at the Essex South Registry of Deeds representing 3,000
             sq ft +/-.
             upon such terms and conditions as the Board of
             Selectmen deem to be in the best interest of the Town.

ARTICLE 5   Assume Liability
            VOTED
             That the Town will assume liability in the manner
             provided by Section 29 of Chapter 91 of the General
             Laws as most recently amended by Chapter 5, Acts of
             1995, for all damages that may be incurred by work to be
             performed by the Department of Public Works of
             Massachusetts for the improvement, development,
             maintenance and protection of tidal and non tidal rivers
             and streams, harbors, tidewaters, foreshores and shores
             along a public beach in accordance with Section II of
             Chapter 91 of the General Laws and authorize the
             Selectmen to execute and deliver a bond of indemnity
             therefore to the Commonwealth.

ARTICLE 6    Unpaid Accounts
             VOTED
             To appropriate the sum of $3,139.00 to provide for the
             payment of any unpaid accounts brought forward from
             previous years, to be transferred from the following
             grants, revolving funds or Article 56, May 2007 Annual
             Town Meeting - Expenses of Several Departments as
             follows:

            Item 064      Police Indemnification          2,015.00
            Item 069      Fire Expense                      71.00
            Item 101      School Budget                    104.00
            Item 191      Park Expense                     551.00
            Item 239      Harbor Expense                   398.00




                          23
            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


ARTICLE 7    Revolving Funds
             VOTED
             To continue the authorization of the following revolving
             funds as required by M.G.L. C.44, s.53E 1/2 as
             recommended by the Board of Selectmen.

                     1.         Historical Commission Gift Shop
                               Revolving Fund in the amount of
                               $13,000 in fiscal 2009 for the use of
                               the Historical Commission to be taken
                               from Historical Commission revenues
                               from the sale of items at the gift shop
                               operated by said commission; said
                               appropriation to be used for expenses
                               of operating said gift shop; and
                               expended by the Commission.

                     2.        Recreation and Park Revolving Fund
                               in the amount of $300,000 in fiscal
                               2009 for the use of the Recreation and
                               Park Commission to be taken from
                               revenues in connection with recreation
                               programs and activities including teen
                               center,    program     fees,   rentals,
                               miscellaneous sales, promotional fees,
                               $5.00 of out of town parking fees
                               charged on weekends and various
                               recreational fund raising events; said
                               appropriation to be used for the
                               expense of said activities including
                               equipment and promotions; and
                               expended by the Commission.

                     3.        Council on Aging Revolving Fund in
                               the amount of $250,000 in fiscal 2009
                               for the use of the Council on Aging
                               Board of Directors to be taken from
                               revenues in connection with the meals
                               on wheels, and nutrition programs,
                               mini-bus       donations,        trips,




                          24
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                 miscellaneous programs, instructional
                 classes, recreational programs, games
                 and tournaments, luncheons and
                 entertainment, and other activities
                 including program fees, fund raising,
                 rentals, miscellaneous sales and
                 promotional fees; said appropriation to
                 be used for the expense of said
                 activities   and     trips,  including
                 equipment and promotions; and
                 expended by the Council on Aging
                 Board of Directors.

       4.        Dog Officer/Animal Control Officer
                 Revolving Fund in the amount of
                 $20,000 in fiscal 2009 for the use of
                 the Dog Officer to be taken from
                 revenues in connection with fees,
                 reimbursements, deposits and refunds
                 of animal medical expenses including
                 spay      and      neuter     expenses,
                 miscellaneous other sales and various
                 fund raising events;' said appropriation
                 to be used for the expense of said
                 programs and activities including
                 medical bills, animal food, pet supplies
                 and equipment, and promotional
                 expenses; and expended by the Dog
                 Officer/ Animal Control Officer.

       5.        RAD Program Revolving Fund in the
                 amount of $7,500 in fiscal 2009 for the
                 use of the Police Chief to be taken
                 from revenues in connection with
                 tuition,    fees,      reimbursements,
                 miscellaneous     sales,   gifts   and
                 donations of the RAD program; said
                 appropriation to be used for the
                 expense of said program including




            25
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                 salaries and     expenses     including
                 equipment

       6.        School Tuition Revolving Fund in the
                 amount of $50,000 in fiscal 2009 for
                 the use of the School Committee to be
                 taken from revenues in connection
                 with tuition's from nonimmigrant
                 foreign students; said appropriation to
                 be used for the expenses of instruction
                 including     salaries,   instructional
                 supplies and equipment.

       7.        Commercial Waste Revolving Fund in
                 the amount of $450,000.00 in fiscal
                 2009 for the use of the Board of Health
                 to be taken from revenues in
                 connection with commercial waste
                 disposal receipts; said fund to be
                 expended for the cost of solid Waste
                 disposal.

       8.        Conservation Fines Revolving Fund in
                 the amount of $10,000.00 in fiscal
                 2009 for the use of the Conservation
                 Commission to be taken from revenues
                 in connection with receipts collected
                 from     fines   assessed     by     the
                 commission; said fund to be expended
                 for remediation of wetlands violations
                 and for the care and maintenance of
                 lands under the control and jurisdiction
                 of the Conservation Commission.

       9.        Sump Pump Improvement Revolving
                 fund in the amount of $25,000 in fiscal
                 2009 for the use of Sewer and Water
                 Commission; to be taken from
                 revenues in connection with receipts
                 collected from money received as a




            26
            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                                result of permitting fees; said fund to
                                be expended for the aid in removal of
                                sump pumps currently tied into the
                                sewer system.
                     10.        Special Education Revolving Fund in
                                the amount of $450,000 in fiscal 2009
                                for the use of the School Committee;
                                revenues to be taken from tuition
                                collected for special education students
                                tuitioned in to the Marblehead Public
                                Schools and from funds collected to
                                pay for the other special education
                                contracted services for out of district
                                special education students being
                                provided service through the North
                                Shore Special Education Consortium
                                and other approved special education
                                public and private placements; said
                                funds to be expended on costs directly
                                related to the special education
                                programs provided to these out of
                                district students.
                     11.        Storm Water By-Law Revolving Fund
                                in the amount of $10,000 in fiscal 2009
                                for the use of the Conservation
                                Commission; to be taken from
                                revenues in connection with receipts
                                collected from application fees
                                associated with the town’s storm water
                                management and erosion control
                                regulations; said funds to be expended
                                for expenses related to the enforcement
                                and administration of the Storm Water
                                By-Law.

ARTICLE 8    North Shore Regional Vocational School District
             VOTED
             To approve the gross operating and maintenance budget
             of the North Shore Regional Vocational School District
             and appropriate the sum of $159,819.00 for the town’s




                           27
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                                assessment of the same to be expended by the School
                                Committee.

ARTICLE 9                       Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule
                                (Administrative)
                                VOTED
                                To amend the Classification and Wage Salary Plan by
                                changing certain job titles where indicated and
                                reclassifying certain positions in the Administrative
                                Schedule: to waive Section 8 of the 1955 Salary By-Law
                                as last amended, by striking out the pay schedule as it
                                relates to administrative personnel, substitute in place
                                thereof the following new pay schedule as it relates to
                                said personnel:

                                ADMINISTRATIVE SALARY SCHEDULE
                                   EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2008 – 2%
 Grade                  Title                 Step 1    Step 2    Step 3    Step 4   Step 5
 59      Town Administrator                  1615.50   1749.26   1883.01   2016.73   2150.49
 58                                          1454.24   1574.81   1695.37   1815.94   1936.50
         Dir Finance/Town
 57      Accountant                          1309.58   1418.10   1526.57   1635.11   1743.61
         Police Chief
         Fire Chief
         Supt Water/Sewer
 56      Town Engineer                       1176.99   1274.92   1372.89   1470.84   1568.81
         Assistant Assessor
         Director Public Health
         Director Library
 55      Harbormaster                        1059.42   1147.58   1235.76   1323.91   1412.08
         Supt Recreation/Park
         Building Commissioner
         Director Public Works
         Director Council on Aging
         Assistant Supt Water/Sewer
         Town Planner
 54      Assistant Director Revenue          953.92    1032.66   1111.43   1190.18   1268.91
         Assistant Director
         Accounting




                                             28
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


        Assistant Director Library
        Public Health Nurse
        Plumbing Inspector
        Wire Inspector
53      Superintendent Cemetery            858.97     929.81     1000.64      1071.49   1142.31
        Local Inspector Building
        Recreation Supervisor
        Assistant Wire Inspector
        Office Manager
        Sewer/Water
        Asst Director/Tree Warden
        Asst Director/Public Works
52      Assistant Revenue Officer          806.23     862.00     917.75       973.53    1029.26
        Health Inspector
        Veterans Agent/Sealer
        Accounting & Website
        Assistant
        Assistant Harbormaster
        Administrative   Aid
        Selectmen
        Payroll Administrator
51      Dog Officer                        765.54     815.28     865.01       914.76    964.49
        Accounting Assistant
50      Administrative Clerk               688.70     735.44     782.13       828.85    875.60
49                                         620.88     662.69     704.51       746.32    788.18



                            ADMINISTRATIVE SALARY SCHEDULE
                     Effective June 30, 2009 - 1% ( no cost in Fiscal 2009)
Grade                 Title              Step 1      Step 2     Step 3        Step 4    Step 5
59      Town Administrator              1631.65     1766.75    1901.84     2036.90      2171.99
58                                      1468.79     1590.56    1712.33     1834.10      1955.87
        Dir Finance/Town
57      Accountant                      1322.67     1432.29    1541.84     1651.46      1761.04
        Police Chief
        Fire Chief
        Supt Water/Sewer
56      Town Engineer                   1188.76     1287.67    1386.62     1485.55      1584.50




                                          29
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


     Assistant Assessor
     Director Public Health
     Director Library
55   Harbormaster                 1070.02   1159.06   1248.12   1337.15   1426.20
     Supt Recreation/Park
     Building Commissioner
     Director Public Works
     Assistant Supt
     Water/Sewer
     Director Council
     on Aging
     Town Planner
     Assistant Director
54   Revenue                      963.46    1042.98   1122.55   1202.08   1281.60
     Assistant Director
     Accounting
     Assistant Director Library
     Public Health Nurse
     Plumbing Inspector
     Wire Inspector
53   Superintendent Cemetery      867.56    939.11    1010.65   1082.20   1153.73
     Local Inspector Building
     Recreation Supervisor
     Assistant Wire Inspector
     Office Manager
     Sewer/Water
     Asst Director/Tree
     Warden
     Asst Director/Public
     Works
52   Assistant Revenue Officer    814.29    870.62    926.92    983.26    1039.55
     Health Inspector
     Veterans Agent/Sealer
     Assistant Harbormaster
     Accounting & Website
     Assistant
     Administrative Aid
     Selectmen
     Payroll Administrator
51   Dog Officer                  773.20    823.43    873.66    923.90    974.14
     Accounting Assistant




                                    30
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


 50    Administrative Clerk            695.59     742.79    789.95    837.14     884.35
 49                                    627.09     669.32    711.56    753.79     796.07

ARTICLE 10                  Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule
                            (Seasonal and Temporary Personnel)
                            VOTED
                            To waive section 8 of the 1955 Salary By-Laws as last
                            amended by Striking out the pay schedules as they relate
                            to Seasonal and Temporary Personnel and substitute in
                            place thereof the following new pay schedules as they
                            relate to said employees:

                       SEASONAL PERSONNEL PAY SCHEDULE
                             EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2008
GP                  TITLE                       DEPT           1          2            3
27    Sr. Seasonal Harbor Asst          HM                 638.41     678.27     718.20
26                                                         599.20     636.65     674.08
25    Beach Supervisor                  Rec/Park/Tree      561.40     596.28     631.39
      Park Police                       Rec/Park/Tree
      Summer Acct Assistant             Finance            527.79     561.40     595.01
      Summer    Programmer
24    Asst                              Finance
      Seasonal Harbor Asst              HM
23    Summer Acct Trainee               Finance            496.96     528.13     559.28
      Summer    Programmer
      Trainee                           Finance
      General Laborer III               Hwy/PW/Waste
      Recreation   Leader,
      Sailing                           Rec/Park/Tree
22    General Laborer B                 Sewer/ Water       477.42     501.52     525.71
      Recreation Leader Arts &
      Crafts                            Rec/Park/Tree
      Recreation   Leader,
      Athletics                         Rec/Park/Tree
      Recreation   Leader,
      Facilities                        Rec/Park/Tree
      Recreation   Leader,
      Playgrounds                       Rec/Park/Tree
      Recreation Leader,Tennis          Rec/Park/Tree
      Lifeguard                         Rec/Park/Tree
      Seasonal Custodian                Public Bld/Insp




                                         31
                           MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


21      Seasonal Laborer              Cemetery            469.00       486.48     503.99
        General Laborer B             Health
        Data Entry Clerk              Public Bldg/Insp
20      Summer Clerical               Finance             459.21       464.80     470.39
        Beach   Maintenance
        Person                        Rec/Park/Tree
        Forestry Worker               Rec/Park/Tree
        Grounds Caretaker             Rec/Park/Tree
        Recreational Instructor       Rec/Park/Tree
        Seasonal Labor                Rec/Park/Tree
2       General Labor C                                   436.28       455.91
B       Custodian                     Lib                 343.54       360.70     378.82
        Summer Asst                   Dog Off

                       SEASONAL PERSONNEL PAY SCHEDULE
                    EFFECTIVE JUNE 30, 2009 (No cost in Fiscal 2009)
GP                 TITLE                    DEPT            1           2          3
27   Sr Seasonal Harbor Asst          HM                 644.79    685.05       725.38
26                                                       605.19    643.02       680.82
25   Beach Supervisor                 Rec/Park/Tree      567.01    602.24       637.70
     Park Police                      Rec/Park/Tree
24   Summer Acct Assistant            Finance            533.07    567.01       600.96
     Summer Programmer Asst           Finance
     Seasonal Harbor Asst             HM
23   Summer Acct Trainee              Finance            501.93    533.41       564.87
     Summer   Programmer
     Trainee                          Finance
     General Laborer III              Hwy/PW/Waste
     Recreation Leader, Sailing       Rec/Park/Tree
22   General Laborer B                Sewer/ Water       482.20    506.54       530.97
     Recreation Leader,Arts &
     Crafts                           Rec/Park/Tree
     Recreation Leader, Athletics     Rec/Park/Tree
     Recreation Leader, Facilities    Rec/Park/Tree
     Recreation   Leader,
     Playgrounds                      Rec/Park/Tree
     Recreation Leader,Tennis         Rec/Park/Tree
     Lifeguard                        Rec/Park/Tree
     Seasonal Custodian               Public Bld/Insp




                                       32
                           MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


21   Seasonal Laborer                     Cemetery               473.69       491.34    509.03
     General Laborer B                    Health
     Data Entry Clerk                     Public Bldg/Insp
20   Summer Clerical                      Finance                463.81       469.45    475.10
     Beach Maintenance Person             Rec/Park/Tree
     Forestry Worker                      Rec/Park/Tree
     Grounds Caretaker                    Rec/Park/Tree
     Recreational Instructor              Rec/Park/Tree
     Seasonal Labor                       Rec/Park/Tree
2    General Labor C                                             440.65       460.47
B    Custodian                            Lib                    346.97       364.31    382.61
     Summer Asst                          Dog Off


                           TEMPORARY PERSONNEL PAY SCHEDULE
                                     EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2008
GP           TITLE                    DEPT          1        2            3        4        5
     Heavy
     Equipment
26   Operator                  Hwy,HM,Waste         623.53   660.10       696.70   733.28   762.62
25   Senior Clerk              Finance              561.40   596.39       631.39   666.39   701.39
24   General Clerk             Assr,Sel,Fire        527.79   561.40       595.01   628.61   662.17
     Vol/Comm Res Coord        COA
     Prgm/Vol Coord            Library
     E-911 Dispatch            Sel
23   Special Clerk-Rev         Finance              496.96   528.13       559.28   590.43   621.60
     General Laborer III       Health
22                                                  477.42   501.52       525.71   549.81   574.01
21   Temporary Laborer         Cem, COA             469.00   486.48       503.99   521.51   539.00
     Temp Special Labor I      Library
20                                                  459.21   464.80       470.39   476.00   481.58
14   Sr Staff Engineer         Eng                  652.41   682.80       714.75   748.30   783.49
13   Tech Ser Librarian        Lib                  623.48   652.41       682.80   714.75   748.30
     Adult Librarian           Lib
     Child Librarian           Lib
     Young Adult Librarian     Lib
12                                                  595.95   623.48       652.41   682.80   714.75




                                             33
                           MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


11   Sanitarian                Hlh               569.61   595.95   623.48   652.41   682.80
10                                               544.66   569.61   595.94   623.48   652.41
9    Special Labor C           Lib               520.81   544.66   569.61   595.95   623.48
     Library Para-Prof         Lib
     Asst Dog Officer          Dog Off
8                                                498.08   520.81   544.66   569.61   595.95
7    Special Clerk             Hlth, Assr        498.08   520.81   544.66   569.61
                               Cem,Swr/Wtr
     Library Tech              Lib
     Lib Tech or Tec Adm       Lib
6    Chauffeur                 COA               498.08   520.81   544.66
5    Sr Library Asst           Lib               498.08   520.81
     General Clerk             Finance
4                                                476.41   498.08
3    Unclassified Labor                          455.91   476.41
     Data Entry Oper
2    Library Assistant         Library           436.28   455.91
1    Temporary Clerk                             417.64   436.28



                         TEMPORARY PERSONNEL PAY SCHEDULE
                       EFFECTIVE JUNE 30, 2009 (No cost in Fiscal 2009)
GP         TITLE                     DEPT          1         2       3        4        5
     Heavy
26   Equipment Operator       Hwy,HM,Waste       629.76   666.70   703.67   740.61   770.25
25   Senior Clerk             Finance            567.01   602.36   637.70   673.05   708.41
24   General Clerk            Assr,Sel,Fire      533.07   567.01   600.96   634.89   668.80
     Vol/Comm Res Coord       COA
     Prgm/Vol Coord           Library
     E-911 Dispatch           Sel
23   Special Clerk-Rev        Finance            501.93   533.41   564.87   596.33   627.81
     General Laborer III      Health
22                                               482.20   506.54   530.97   555.31   579.75
21   Temporary Laborer        Cem, COA           473.69   491.34   509.03   526.72   544.39
     Temp Special Labor I     Library
20                                               463.81   469.45   475.10   480.76   486.40
14   Sr Staff Engineer        Eng                658.94   689.63   721.90   755.79   791.33




                                            34
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


13   Tech Ser Librarian        Lib               629.71   658.94   689.63   721.90   755.79
     Adult Librarian           Lib
     Child Librarian           Lib
     Young Adult Librarian     Lib
12                                               601.90   629.71   658.94   689.63   721.90
11   Sanitarian                Hlh               575.30   601.90   629.71   658.94   689.63
10                                               550.11   575.30   601.89   629.71   658.94
9    Special Labor C           Lib               526.02   550.11   575.30   601.90   629.71
     Library Para-Prof         Lib
     Asst Dog Officer          Dog Off
8                                                503.06   526.02   550.11   575.30   601.90
7    Special Clerk             Hlth, Assr        503.06   526.02   550.11   575.30
                               Cem,Swr/Wtr
     Library Tech              Lib
     Lib Tech or Tec Adm       Lib
6    Chauffeur                 COA               503.06   526.02   550.11
5    Sr Library Asst           Lib               503.06   526.02
     General Clerk             Finance
4                                                481.18   503.06
3    Unclassified Labor                          460.47   481.18
     Data Entry Oper
2    Library Assistant         Library           440.65   460.47
1    Temporary Clerk                             421.82   440.65




ARTICLE 11                   Pay Schedule and Reclassification
                             (Traffic Supervisors)
                             VOTED
                             To increase the pay for Marblehead Traffic Supervisors,
                             2% effective July 1, 2008 and 1% effective June 30,
                             2008 (no cost in fiscal 2009).

ARTICLE 12                   Ratification of Salary By-Law
                             VOTED
                             To ratify certain actions taken by the Compensation
                             Committee under Section 3(e) of the 1955 Salary By-




                                            35
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


              Law as last amended and amend the classifications of the
              positions as follows:
              1. Reclassify and change job title in the Administrative
                  Pay Schedule:
              a. Part-time Senior Clerk Position in the Fire
                  Department       Reclassified   as    a    part-time
                  Administrative Clerk Group 50.

ARTICLE 13    Compensation - Town Officers
              VOTED
              That the yearly compensation of the Town Officer
              named in this article be as follows:

              Town Clerk                  $66,237.10

              Said amount to be in full compensation for services as
              Town Clerk. All fees received by the Town Clerk in his
              official capacity to be accounted for to the Town
              Revenue Officer.

              That the Town Clerk as elected and having served in that
              position or as a regular full-time employee for five
              consecutive years, and for each applicable additional five
              years on such basis, shall be paid longevity pay
              annually, in addition to his weekly salary.

              Eligibility will be determined on November 30 each year
              and payment made to the official with the first regular
              payroll of December of that year. Only those in office
              on the determination date and qualified by their
              consecutive years of service, as described above, shall
              receive longevity pay for the calendar year.

                       Annual longevity                    Town Clerk
                       Pay Schedule

                       Not less than 5 years                   $300.00
                       Not less than 10 years                   400.00
                       Not less than 15 years                   500.00
                       Not less than 20 years                   600.00




                           36
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                    Not less than 25 years                     700.00
                    30 years and over                          800.00

ARTICLE 14          Salaries of Public Employees Serving in the
                    Military
                    VOTED
                    To accept Chapter 137 of the Acts of 2003, An
                    act relative to Public Employees serving in the
                    Armed Forces of the United States, as amended
                    by Chapter 77 of the Acts of 2005, such
                    acceptance shall be effective on July 1, 2007.

ARTICLE 15          Walls and Fences
                    VOTED
                    That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 16          Water and Sewer Commission Claims
                    VOTED
                    To authorize the Water and Sewer Commission
                    and the Board of Selectmen acting jointly to
                    compromise any claims for damages or suits
                    pending against the Town of Marblehead on
                    account of acts which may have occurred during
                    the construction of the water and sewer system.

ARTICLE 17          Storm Drainage Construction
                    VOTED
                    That $324,000.00 is appropriated from taxation
                    for the construction and reconstruction of
                    sewers for surface drainage purposes, including
                    engineering services in connection therewith, to
                    authorize the appropriate Town Officers to
                    acquire by purchase, eminent domain or
                    otherwise, any land or easement necessary; to
                    be expended by the Water and Sewer
                    Commission.

ARTICLE 18         Sewer Department Construction
                   VOTED




                        37
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                    That the sum of $264,853.00 is appropriated
                    from sewer retained earnings to be expended by
                    the Water and Sewer Commission for the
                    construction or reconstruction of sewers for
                    sanitary purposes and for sewage disposal,
                    pump stations, original pumping station
                    equipment,     metering     equipment,   safety
                    equipment, replacement of said equipment,
                    engineering, consultants and surveys including
                    revenue studies, and other general Sewer
                    Department purposes, and to authorize the
                    Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners to
                    acquire by purchase,       eminent domain or
                    otherwise any lands or easements necessary.

ARTICLE 19         Water Department Construction
                   VOTED
                   That the sum of $687,871.00 is appropriated
                   from water retained earnings to be expended by
                   the Water and Sewer Commission for the
                   construction, reconstruction and extending of
                   water mains, replacement of water meters,
                   appurtenances,     engineering,     consultants,
                   surveys including revenue studies, and other
                   general Water Department purposes, and to
                   authorize the Board of Water and Sewer
                   Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent
                   domain or otherwise any lands or easements
                   necessary.

ARTICLE 20          Fiscal 2008 School Budget Additional
                    Appropriation
                    VOTED
                    That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 21         Purchase Angenica Property on Longview
                   Drive
                   COUNTED VOTE Failed
                   Yes          No
                   337         351




                        38
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                    That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 21          Land Acquisition, Longview Drive
                    COUNTED VOTE – Failed 2/3 Vote
                    Yes       377      No       347
                    To authorize and direct the Board of Selectmen,
                    with approval of Town Counsel as to form, to
                    execute and record all necessary and appropriate
                    documents to effectuate the acquisition,
                    purchase, or acceptance of a certain parcel of
                    land owned by Mario and Camille Angenica,
                    located on Longview Drive West and identified
                    on Marblehead Assessor’s Map 21 as Lot 19 to
                    be used for open space purposes dedicated to
                    conservation and passive recreational use under
                    the care, custody, and control of the Marblehead
                    Conservation      Commission       pursuant    to
                    Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 40,
                    Section 8C, upon such terms and conditions as
                    the Board of Selectmen deem to be in the best
                    interest of the Town; and provided, however,
                    that prior to or simultaneously with the
                    consummation of said land acquisition, the
                    Town has, or shall have acquired, such
                    permanent pedestrian access and reasonable
                    access for municipal and other public purpose-
                    related vehicles to the subject parcel at no cost
                    to the Town and as Town counsel deems
                    necessary to assure in perpetuity said public
                    access over Longview Drive West to the
                    property; and, furthermore, to appropriate and
                    direct the Treasurer, with the approval of the
                    Board of Selectmen, to borrow the sum of One
                    Million Two Hundred Twenty-Five Thousand
                    Dollars (1,225,000.00) under and pursuant to
                    the provisions of G.L. c.44, §7 or §8, or any
                    other enabling authority, and to issue bonds and
                    notes of the Town therefore. And provided
                    further that this vote shall not take effect until
                    the Town votes to exempt from the limitation




                        39
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                                  on total taxes imposed by G.L. c. 59, §21C
                                  (Proposition 2 ½) amounts required to pay the
                                  principal of and interest on the borrowing
                                  authorized by this vote.

ARTICLE 22                        Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
                                  VOTED
                                  That the sum of $163,830.00 is appropriated to
                                  be expended by the Board of Selectmen for
                                  remodeling, reconstructing       and  making
                                  extraordinary repairs and improvements to
                                  existing Town buildings and infrastructure
                                  including the following repairs:

Abbot Hall                                  Library
Repair and Re-grout Structural Brick        Telephone System
Wire Department                             Snow Blower
Mobile Radios and Speakers                  Vacuum Cleaner
OSHA Compliant Equipment                    Carpet Cleaning
Tree Department                             Engineer
Insulate Garage Roof                        Upgrade Topographical Data
Smoke and Heat Alarms                       Integrate Cama Data with GIS
Fire Department                             Waste Collection
Fire Alarm at Franklin St                   Repair Scale and Compactor
Protective Gear                             Cemetery
Hose and Nozzle Replacement                 Carpet in Office
EMS Equipment                               Entrance Arch
Radio Repair and Contract

ARTICLE 23            Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
                      VOTED
                      That the sum of $754,100.00 be appropriated, and to
                      meet this appropriation the sum of $288,532.00 to be
                      transferred from Sewer Retained Earnings, $28,532.00 to
                      be transferred from Water Retained Earnings, $33.500.00
                      to be transferred from Harbor Retained Earnings,
                      $23,921.00 to be transferred from the Cemetery Sale of
                      Lots Fund and $379,615.00 is to be raised by taxation.
                      To include the following:
    Police Department               Cemetery Department




                                       40
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


   4 Police Vehicles                1 Dump Truck (3)
   Park Department                  1 Lawn Mower
   1 Tiller                         Sewer Department
   1 Dump Truck                     1 Vacuum Truck (1)
   Highway Department               1 Pick-up Truck (1)
   1 Pick-up Truck                  Water Department
   1 Rack Body Truck                1 Utility Truck (2)
   1 Truck with Sander              Harbormaster Department
   School Department                1 Utility Truck (4)
   1 Van
               Building Inspection Department
               Bucket Truck Repairs

                 1.    From Sewer Retained Earnings
                 2.    From Water Retained Earnings
                 3.    Partially from Cemetery Sale of Lots Fund
                 4.    From Harbor Retained Earnings

ARTICLE 24             Financial Assistance for Conservation
                       VOTED
                       To authorize the Conservation Commission and other
                       proper officers of the Town to apply for financial
                       assistance from public and private sources to be
                       expended by the Conservation Commission for the
                       purchase of vacant land and any other purpose
                       authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General
                       Laws as amended, or to reimburse the town for sums of
                       money expended for such purposes, or both.

ARTICLE 25             Amend By-law - Alternate Members
                       VOTED
                       To amend the town By-Law as follows:
                        “Article I, Section 200-4 ‘Board of Appeals,’”
                       to be renumbered as “Article I, Section 200-
                       4(A) ‘Board of Appeals.’” Article I, to add the
                       following new Section 200-4(B) “Planning
                       Board,” to read as follows: A. Membership;
                       Special Permit Granting Authority. Where the
                       Planning Board is authorized by this Bylaw to
                       determine whether to grant, deny or grant with




                                    41
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                conditions a special permit, and is acting in said
                capacity, the Planning Board shall be comprised
                of five members and one associate member. B.
                Associate Members. Associate members shall
                be appointed by a majority vote of the Board of
                Selectmen and the Planning Board.”

ARTICLE 26   Amend General By-laws to Add an Alternate Member to
             the Planning Board
             VOTED
             To amend the town by-law as follows:
             Chapter 24 “Boards, Commissions and Committees,” Article
             IV “Planning Board,” Section 24-6 “Membership,” to add
             the following clause and sentence to the end of the first
             sentence thereof: “provided, however, that in accordance
             with Section 200-4(B) of the Zoning Bylaw and G.L. c.
             40A, sec. 9, the Planning Board shall be comprised of five
             members and one associate member where it is authorized
             by the Zoning Bylaw to determine whether to grant, deny or
             grant with conditions a special permit, and is acting in said
             capacity.”

ARTICLE 27   Amend the Zoning By-law
             COUNTED VOTE
               For             Against
               590                52
             VOTED
             To amend the town bylaw as follows:
             Article II Definitions Section 200-7 meanings of words LOT
             AREA, which presently reads: “The horizontal area within
             the exterior lines of the lot, exclusive of any area in a street,
             and exclusive of any horizontal area subject to oceanic tidal
             action but below mean high water; except that ½ of any
             private right-of-way common to the adjoining lots may be
             included in the lot area to the extent that the title in fee
             simple to the private right-of-way rests with the lot owner.”
             By removing the words “except that ½ of any private right of
             way common to the adjoining lots may be included in the lot
             area to the extent that the title in fee simple to the private
             right-of-way rests with the lot owner.” to read instead “The




                               42
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                   horizontal area within the exterior lines of the lot, exclusive
                   of any area in a street, and exclusive of any horizontal area
                   subject to oceanic tidal action but below mean high water.”

ARTICLE 28         Amend Zoning Map Rezoning a Single Residence Area
                   to Business
                   MOTION FAILED
                   VOTED
                   To revise the Zoning Map of the Town by taking an area
                   that is presently zoned Single Residence and changing its
                   designation to Business. This area to be rezoned is described
                   as follows:
                   The lot of land with a building thereon known as and
                   numbered 250-260 Humphrey Street, Marblehead,
                   Massachusetts, being Assessor’s Map 4, Parcel 14, as shown
                   on the plan entitled “Site Plan 242-260 [sic] Humphrey
                   Street Marblehead, MA, Land of beach Bluff LLC,” dated
                   November 7, 2006, prepared by Kane Land Surveyors, a
                   copy of which plan is on file in the Office of the Town
                   Clerk.


At 10:15pm voted to adjourn meeting to Tuesday May 6th at 7:45PM at the
                    Veteran’s Middle School Performing Arts Center.

May 6th, 2008 at 7:45pm with a quorum present the moderator resumed the
                     meeting.

ARTICLE 29            Amend the existing Zoning Bylaw 200.08 to include
                      the following paragraphs (c.d. and e) as follows:
                      VOTED
                      That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 30            Improvements at Gerry Playground
                      VOTED
                       To appropriate the sum of $220,000.00 for the
                       construction of a pier and related land side
                       improvements at Gerry playground, $105,248.00 to be
                       raised by Harbor Receipts and $114,752.00 to be taken
                       from Harbor Surplus.




                                    43
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



ARTICLE 31    Delegation of Designation of the Permitting Authority
              for Trench Safety
              VOTED
              That the Board of Selectmen pursuant to G.L. c. 82A,
              designate the Board or Officer to issue permits for the
              purpose of creating a trench as that term is defined by
              G.L. c. 82A §4 and 520 CMR 14.00 (collectively the
              “Trench Safety Law”) and that the Board of Selectmen
              may adopt reasonable regulations for the carrying out of
              said Trench Safety Law.

ARTICLE 32    Petition the Legislature Relative to the Office of Chief
              of the Marblehead Fire Department
              VOTED
              To amend Chapter 216 of the Acts of 1939, by striking
              out the words in Section 1, at sentence 3, “Appointments
              to such office shall be made after a competitive civil
              service examination open only to citizens of said town;”
              and inserting in place thereof the following:
              “Appointments to such office shall be made after a
              departmental civil service promotional examination.”

ARTICLE 33    Accept the Affordable Housing Trust Fund, General
              Laws Chapter 44 Section 55C
              VOTED
              To accept the provisions of General Laws Chapter 44
              Section 55C establishing a trust to be known as the
              Marblehead Affordable Housing Trust Fund, whose
              purpose shall be to provide for the creation and
              preservation of affordable housing in the Town for the
              benefit of low and moderate income households.

ARTICLE 34    Amend the General By-Laws of the Town of
              Marblehead and Create an Affordable Housing Trust
              Fund
              VOTED
              To amend the General By-Laws of the Town by adding
              the following in Chapter 24 as Article IX as follows:




                           44
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


 ARTICLE IX MARBLEHEAD                    AFFORDABLE
 HOUSING TRUST FUND

 24-23. Purpose; Membership; Appointment

 There shall be a board of trustees of the Marblehead
 Affordable Housing Trust Fund established by the vote
 under Article 34 of the Warrant for the 2008 Annual
 Town Meeting, in this section called the board, which
 shall include nine (9) trustees, including all of the
 members of the Board of Selectmen, with the remaining
 members to be appointed by the Board of Selectmen.
 Trustees shall serve for a term not to exceed two (2)
 years. A quorum of the board of trustees shall be five (5)
 members.

 24-24. Powers
 The powers of the board, all of which shall be carried on
 in furtherance of the purposes set forth in General Laws
 Chapter 44 Section 55C, shall include the following:

 (A) subject to Town Meeting approval, to accept and
 receive real property, by gift, grant, devise, or transfer
 from any person, firm, corporation or other public or
 private entity;

 (B) to accept and receive tangible property or financial
 gifts, by gift, grant, devise, or transfer from any person,
 firm, corporation or other public or private entity,
 including without limitation grants of funds or other
 property, not real property, tendered to the trust in
 connection with provisions of the Town of Marblehead
 Zoning By-Law or any other Town By-Law;

 (C) subject to Town Meeting approval, to purchase and
 retain real property;

 (D) to purchase and retain personal property, including
 without restriction investments that yield a high rate of
 income or no income;




               45
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



 (E) subject to Town Meeting approval, to sell, lease,
 exchange, transfer or convey any real property at public
 auction or by private contract for such consideration and
 on such terms as to credit or otherwise, and to make such
 contracts and enter into such undertaking relative to trust
 property as the board deems advisable notwithstanding
 the length of any such lease or contract;

 (F) to sell, lease, exchange, transfer or convey any
 personal, property at public auction or by private contract
 for such consideration and on such terms as to credit or
 otherwise, and to make such contracts and enter into
 such undertaking relative to trust property as the board
 deems advisable notwithstanding the length of any such
 lease or contract;

 (G) to execute, acknowledge and deliver deeds,
 assignments, transfers, pledges, leases, covenants,
 contracts, promissory notes, releases and other
 instruments sealed or unsealed, necessary, proper or
 incident to any transaction in which the board engages
 for the accomplishment of the purposes of the trust and if
 given proper authority as noted above;

 (H) to employ advisors and agents, such as accountants,
 appraisers and lawyers as the board deems necessary;

  (I) to pay reasonable compensation and expenses
   to all advisors and agents and to apportion such
 compensation between income and principal as the
   board deems advisable;

 (J) to apportion receipts and charges between incomes
 and principal as the board deems advisable, to amortize
 premiums and establish sinking funds for such purpose,
 and to create reserves for depreciation depletion or
 otherwise;

 (K) to participate in any reorganization, recapitalization,




               46
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


 merger or similar transactions; and to give proxies or
 powers of attorney with or without power of substitution
 to vote any securities or certificates of interest; and to
 consent to any contract, lease, mortgage, purchase or sale
 of property, by or between any corporation and any other
 corporation or person;

 (L) to deposit any security with any protective
 reorganization committee, and to delegate to such
 committee such powers and authority with relation
 thereto as the board may deem proper and to pay, out of
 trust property, such portion of expenses and
 compensation of such committee as the board may deem
 necessary and appropriate;

 (M) to carry property for accounting purposes other than
 acquisition date values;

 (N) to borrow money on such terms and conditions and
 from such sources as the board deems advisable and to
 mortgage and pledge trust assets as collateral;

 (O) to make distributions or divisions of principal in
 kind;

 (P) to compromise, attribute, defend, enforce, release,
 settle or otherwise adjust claims in favor or against the
 trust, including claims for taxes, and to accept any
 property, either in total or partial satisfaction of any
 indebtedness or other obligation, and subject to the
 provisions of Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 44,
 Section 55C, to continue to hold the same for such period
 of time as the board may deem appropriate;

 (Q) to manage or improve real property;

 (R) subject to approval of Town Meeting, to abandon
 any property which the board determined not to be worth
 retaining;




               47
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


              (S) to hold all or part of the trust property uninvested for
              such purposes and for such time as the board may deem
              appropriate;

              (T) to extend the time for payment of any obligation to
              the trust.

              (U) to adopt rules and regulations for the purpose of
              carrying out its responsibilities and powers and in
              furtherance of the provisions hereof .
              And to do all of the foregoing without funding from the
              Town of Marblehead but by receipts generated and/or
              earned, received, bequeathed, gifted or devised in
              accordance herewith.

ARTICLE 35    Land Acquisition, Naugus Avenue
              VOTED
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 36    Payment in Lieu of Tax (“PILOT”) Agreement
              VOTED
              To approve the payment in lieu of Tax (“PILOT”)
              Agreement between the Town of Marblehead and the
              Alliance Health of Massachusetts, Inc., with respect to
              the property known as the Devereux House and located
              at 39 Lafayette Street, Marblehead, Massachusetts.

ARTICLE 37    Landfill Assessment and Regulatory Compliance
              Activities
              VOTED
              That the sum of $114,600.00 is appropriated to be
              expended by the Board of Health for continued water
              quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk assessment,
              engineering and any other services related to the Old
              Landfill.

ARTICLE 38    School Department Computer, Support Equipment
              and Technology Infrastructure
              VOTED
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.




                            48
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



ARTICLE 39    Schools Construction and or Renovation Program
              Vote #1 – Glover School
              COUNTED VOTE
              Yes       506      No        15
              That the Town of Marblehead appropriate the sum of
              Three Hundred Ninety-Five Thousand ($395,000.00)
              Dollars for the costs associated with a feasibility study
              for the Glover school project, which includes the hiring
              of an Owner’s Project Manager for no more than
              $50,000.00 and the design fees through schematics of the
              potential solution for no more than $345,000.00 for the
              Feasibility Study of the Glover School, situated on 4.78
              acres of land located at 7 to 9 Maple Street, known as
              Parcel 40-4-0, said sum to be expended under the
              direction of the Glover School Building Committee, and
              to meet said appropriation authorize the Town Treasurer,
              with the approval of the Board of Selectmen, to borrow
              said sum under M.G.L. Chapter 44, or any other enabling
              authority, provided that the Town of Marblehead
              acknowledges that the Massachusetts School Building
              Authority’s grant program is a non-entitlement,
              discretionary program based on need, as determined by
              the MSBA, and any costs the Town of Marblehead
              incurs in excess of any grant approved by and received
              from the MSBA shall be the sole responsibility of the
              Town of Marblehead, and further provided that the
              appropriation hereunder shall be subject to and
              contingent upon an affirmative vote of the Town to
              exempt the amounts required for the payment of interest
              and principal on said borrowing from the limitations on
              taxes imposed by M.G.L. 59, Section 21C (Proposition
              2½), and further provided and that the amount of
              borrowing authorized pursuant to this vote shall be
              reduced by any amounts received from the MSBA prior
              to the issuance of bonds or notes under this vote.

              Vote # 2 – Village School
              COUNTED VOTE
              Yes 505          No 3




                           49
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


 That the Town of Marblehead appropriate the sum of no
 more than Twenty-One Million Seven Hundred Sixty-
 Six      Thousand       Nine      Hundred     Ninety-Three
 ($21,766,993.00) Dollars to pay costs associated with the
 architectural, project management, and construction costs
 for the Village School project located on Village Street,
 said sum to be expended under the direction of the
 Marblehead School Committee, provided that all
 construction costs be directly related to heating,
 plumbing, electrical, mechanical, building code
 accessibility, fire and life safety, replacement of ceilings,
 light fixtures, and other building systems, roof, windows,
 flooring, walls, brickwork, lockers, and site road access,
 and for which the Town may be eligible for a school
 construction grant from the Massachusetts School
 Building Authority (“MSBA”), which project will
 materially extend the useful life of a portion of the
 Village School and result in a new and renovated asset
 that otherwise is capable of supporting the Town’s
 required educational program, and to meet said
 appropriation the Treasurer, with the approval of the
 Board of Selectmen, is authorized to borrow said sum
 under M.G.L. Chapter 44, M.G.L. Chapter 70B, or any
 other enabling authority; that the Town acknowledges
 that the MSBA’s grant program is a non-entitlement,
 discretionary program based on need, as determined by
 the MSBA, and any project costs the Town incurs in
 excess of any grant approved by and received from the
 MSBA shall be the sole responsibility of the Town;
 provided further that any grant that the Town may
 receive from the MSBA for the Project shall not exceed
 the lesser of (1) 40 percent of eligible, approved project
 costs, as determined by the MSBA, or (2) the total
 maximum grant amount determined by the MSBA;
 provided that any appropriation hereunder shall be
 subject to and contingent upon an affirmative vote of the
 Town to exempt the amounts required for the payment of
 interest and principal on said borrowing from the
 limitations on taxes imposed by M.G.L. 59, Section 21C
 (Proposition 2½); and that the amount of the borrowing




               50
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                       authorized pursuant to this vote shall be reduced by any
                       amounts received from the MSBA prior to the issuance
                       of any bonds or notes under this vote.

  ARTICLE 40           Transfer of Proceeds from Marblehead Veterans
                       Middle School
                       VOTED
                       That the remaining proceeds of the borrowing for the
                       Veterans Middle School project authorized under votes
                       of the Town passed November 5, 2001 in the amount of
                       $48,862.99 are hereby appropriated for purchasing
                       security apparatus, door and lock hardware and other
                       security materials for classrooms and other spaces for the
                       schools for the purpose of classroom, meeting room and
                       office security during school lock downs.

ARTICLE 41             School Department, Classroom Door and Lock
                       Security Initiative
                       VOTED
                       That the sum of $91,961.00 is appropriated for
                       purchasing security apparatus, door and lock hardware,
                       and other security materials for classrooms and other
                       school spaces for the purpose of classroom, meeting
                       room and office security during school lock downs.
                       $48,862.99 to be transferred from Article 40, 2008 and
                       $43,098.01 from taxation.

ARTICLE 42             Fiscal 2008 Expenses of Several Departments
                       VOTED
                       That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 43             Available Funds Appropriated to Reduce the Tax
                       Rate
                       VOTED
                       That the sum of $3,512,367.00 be appropriated for the
                       use of the Assessors in making the Tax Rate.
   From Free Cash                                 $     2,925,664.00
   From Electric Surplus                                330,000.00
   Sewer Retained Earnings                              89,748.00




                                    51
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


   Water Retained Earnings                           78,195.00
   Harbor Retained Earnings                          88,760.00
                                                $    3,512,367.00


ARTICLE 44            Expenses of Several Departments
                      Item 1 Moderator
                      VOTED:
                      That the sum of $100.00 be and hereby is appropriated
                      for the Moderator as follows:
                      Item     1       Officials Expense       $100.00

ARTICLE 44            Expenses of Several Departments
                      Items 2 3 4 5 6 Selectmen
                      VOTED:
                      That the sum of $425,585.00 be and hereby is
                      appropriated for the Selectmen as follows:
                      Item 2 Officials Expense                   $ 5,500.00
                      Item 3 Salaries & Wages                     318,922.00
                      Item 4 Expense                               92,163.00
                      Item 5 Zoning Board Legal Services            7,000.00
                      Item 6 Out of State Travel                    2,000.00
                                                                 $425,585.00

ARTICLE 44            Expenses of Several Departments
                      Items 7 8 9 Finance Committee
                      VOTED:
                      That the sum of $13,668.00 be and hereby is
                      appropriated for the Finance Committee as follows:
                      Item 7            Salaries & Wages           $ 7,908.00
                      Item 8            Expense                      5,585.00
                      Item 9            Local Travel                   175.00
                                                                   $13,668.00

ARTICLE 44            Expenses of Several Departments
                      Item 10 Reserve Fund
                      VOTED:
                      That the sum of $144,000.00 be and hereby is
                      appropriated for the Reserve Fund.




                                   52
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 12 13       Finance Department
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $847,251.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Finance Department as follows:
              Item 12           Salaries & Wages         $ 601,046.00
              Item 13           Expense                    246,205.00
                                                         $ 847,251.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 17 18 19 20          Assessor
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $200,796.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Assessor as follows:
              Item 17           Officials Expense       $     300.00
              Item 18           Salaries & Wages          166,311.00
              Item 19           Expense                    33,985.00
              Item 20           Local Travel                  200.00
                                                        $ 200,796.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 29 30       Town Counsel
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $64,932.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Town Counsel as follows:
              Item 29           Salaries & Wages         $ 2,000.00
              Item 30           Expense                     62,932.00
                                                         $ 64,932.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 35         Parking Clerk
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $15,484.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Parking Clerk Department as
              follows:
              Item 35                 Expense      $ 15,484.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 39 40     Town Clerk
              VOTED:




                           53
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


              That the sum of $151,582.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Town Clerk as follows:
              Item 39           Salaries & Wages          $144,045.00
              Item 40           Expense                      7,537.00
                                                          $151,582.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 43 44       Election and Registration
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $43,065.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Election and Registration as follows:
              Item 43           Salaries & Wages           $ 22,450.00
              Item 44           Expense                       20,615.00
                                                           $ 43,065.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 50           Planning Board
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $1,675.00 be and hereby is appropriated
              for the Planning Board as follows:
              Item 50           Expense                  $1,675.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 55 56 57             Public Buildings
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $181,682.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Public Buildings as follows:
              Item 55           Salaries & Wages            $ 80,182.00
              Item 56           Expense                      101,100.00
              Item 57           Local Travel                      400.00
                                                            $181,682.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 59                  Town Report
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $4,300.00 be and hereby is appropriated
              for the Town Report to be expended by the Board of
              Selectmen.

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments




                           54
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


              Item 60                  Town Audit
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $38,000.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Town Audit to be expended by the
              Board of Selectmen.

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 62 63 64             Police Department
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $2,997,034.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Police Department as follows:
              Item 62 Salaries & Wages                $2,799,422.00
              Item 63 Expense                             187,612.00
              Item 64 Indemnification of Officers          10,000.00
                                                      $2,997,034.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 68 69                Fire Department
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $2,800,998.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Fire Department as follows:
              Item 68           Salaries & Wages       $ 2,671,180.00
              Item 69           Expense                    129,818.00
                                                        $2,800,998.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 73 74 75             Building Inspection
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $434,792.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for Building Inspection as follows:
              Item 73           Salaries & Wages           $422,037.00
              Item 74           Expense                        9,755.00
              Item 75           Local Travel                   3,000.00
                                                           $434,792.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 80            Sealer of Weights and Measures
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $150.00 be and hereby is appropriated
              for the Sealer of Weights and Measures as follows:




                           55
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


              Item 80           Expense                        $150.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 86           Animal Inspector
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $1,200.00 be and hereby is appropriated
              for the Animal Inspector as follows:
              Item 86           Salaries                   $1,200.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 92 93                Dog Officer
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $70,180.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Dog Officer as follows:
              Item 92           Salaries & Wages           $ 65,393.00
              Item 93           Expense                       4,787.00
                                                           $ 70,180.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 101                  School Department
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $26,699,436.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the School Department.

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 105 106 107          Engineer
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $123,091.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Engineer as follows:
              Item 105          Salaries & Wages        $112,196.00
              Item 106          Expense                   10,395.00
              Item 107          Local Travel                 500.00
                                                        $123,091.00

              To meet this appropriation, $3,000.00 is to be transferred
              from Wetland Filing Fees and $120,091.00 to be taken
              from Taxation.

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 112 113           Highway




                           56
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


              VOTED:
              That the sum of $723,823.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Highway as follows:
              Item 112          Salaries & Wages       $637,889.00
              Item 113          Expense                  85,934.00
                                                       $723,823.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 116 Rebuild, Maintain or Hot Top Streets
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $12,150.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated to rebuild or hot top certain streets and said
              work to be done under the direction of the Director of
              Public Works and said sum of money to be expended by
              the Director of Public Works.

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 117          Snow Removal
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $100,000.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the use of the Director of Public Works
              to cover all expenses incidental to snow removal.

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 118          Street Lighting
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $117,550.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Street Lighting in accordance with
              Section 58, Chapter 164 of the Massachusetts General
              Laws.

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 121          Maintain & Rebuild Sidewalks
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $16,600.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for use of the Director of Public Works to
              maintain and rebuild various sidewalks in town.

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 126 127 128       Waste Collection




                            57
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


              VOTED:
              That the sum of $1,797,559.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Waste Collection as follows:
              Item 126          Salaries & Wages         $ 269,553.00
              Item 127          Expense                   1,526,494.00
              Item 128          Local Travel                  1,512.00
                                                         $1,797,559.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 132 133              Drains
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $100,554.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Drains as follows:
              Item 132          Salaries & Wages      $ 95,404.00
              Item 133          Expense                  5,150.00
                                                      $100,554.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 141 142 143          Cemetery
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $313,111.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Cemetery as follows:
              Item 141          Officials Expense         $    300.00
              Item 142          Salaries & Wages           290,965.00
              Item 143          Expenses                  $ 21,846.00
                                                         $313,111.00
              To meet this appropriation, $268,111 is to be raised by
              taxation, and $45,000 to be transferred from Cemetery
              Perpetual Care.

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 148 149              Tree
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $200,975.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Tree Department as follows:
              Item 148          Salaries & Wages           $169,397.00
              Item 149          Expense                      31,578.00
                                                           $200,975.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments




                           58
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


              Items 153 154 155 157 158           Health Department
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $138,511.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Health Department as follows:
              Item 153          Officials Expense         $     400.00
              Item 154          Salaries & Wages            121,666.00
              Item 155          Expense                      10,645.00
              Item 157          Local Travel                  1,800.00
              Item 158          HAWC                          4,000.00
                                                          $138,511.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 162                Mental Health
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $65,728.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Mental Health Department as
              follows:
              Item 162        Contractual Services  $ 65,728.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 164 165              Council on Aging
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $182,240.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Council on Aging as follows:
              Item 164          Salaries & Wages           $179,381.00
              Item 165          Expense                       2,859.00
                                                           $182,240.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 175 176 177 178 Veterans Benefits
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $73,871.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Veterans Benefits as follows:
              Item 175          Salaries & Wages            $ 54,528.00
              Item 176          Expense                        1,243.00
              Item 177          Local Travel                   1,100.00
              Item 178          Benefits                      17,000.00
                                                            $ 73,871.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments




                           59
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


              Items 185 186 187          Library
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $926,180.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Abbot Public Library as follows:
              Item 185          Salaries & Wages           $702,197.00
              Item 186          Expense                     223,883.00
              Item 187          Local Travel                    100.00
                                                           $926,180.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 190 191 192          Park Department
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $741,718.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Park and Recreation as follows:
              Item 190          Salaries & Wages           $527,498.00
              Item 191          Expense                     171,590.00
              Item 192          Facility Expense              42,630.00
                                                           $741,718.00

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 210         Memorial & Veterans Day
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $1,950.00 be and hereby is appropriated
              for Memorial and Veterans Day, said sum of money to
              be expended by the Board of Selectmen.

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 214 215 Maturing Bonds and Interest
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $4,249,372.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Maturing Bonds and Interest as
              follows:
              Item 214         Maturing Debt       $ 2,695,000.00
              Item 215         Interest              1,554,372.00
                                                    $4,249,372.00

              To meet this appropriation, $161,335.63 is to be
              transferred from Bond Premium Reserved for
              Appropriation and $4,088,036.37 to be raised by
              taxation.




                           60
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 217                   Contributory Retirement
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $1,921,288.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Contributory Retirement Fund.

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 218                Medicare
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $400,000.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for Medicare, to be expended by the
              Finance Director.

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 219          Workmen’s Compensation
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $250,000.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated to be added to the Workmen’s
              Compensation Trust Fund (and allowed to accumulate
              from year to year) to be expended by the Finance
              Director to pay expenses of Workmen’s Compensation.

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 221                  Group Insurance
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $10,467,120.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for Group Insurance to be expended by the
              Finance Director.

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 222                  Other Insurance
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $475,888.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for Other Insurance, to be expended by the
              Board of Selectmen.

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 223        Salary Reserve
              VOTED:




                           61
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


              That the sum of $110,770.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for Salary Reserve, to be expended by the
              Board of Selectmen.

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 224         Non-Contributory Retirement
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $140,253.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for Non-Contributory Retirement, to be
              expended by the Finance Director/Town Accountant.

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 225         Energy Reserve
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $404,200.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for Energy Reserve, to be expended by the
              Board of Selectmen.

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 227 228 230          Sewer Department
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $3,120,186.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Sewer Department as follows:
              Item 227          Salaries & Wages          $559,476.00
              Item 228          Expense                    447,644.00
              Item 230       South Essex Sewer District 2,113,066.00
                                                        $3,120,186.00

              To meet this appropriation, $3,120,186.00 is to be
              transferred from sewer receipts.

ARTICLE 44    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 231 232 235          Water Department
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $2,842,235.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Water Department as follows:
              Item 231          Salaries & Wages        $ 553,623.00
              Item 232          Expense                    436,530.00
              Item 235          Metropolitan Water       1,852,082.00
                                                        $2,842,235.00




                           62
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                       To meet this appropriation, $2,842,235.00 is to be
                       transferred from water receipts.

ARTICLE 44             Expenses of Several Departments
                       Item 236          Municipal Light Department
                       VOTED:
                       That the income from sales of electricity to private
                       consumers, from electricity supplied to municipal
                       buildings and electricity supplied for municipal power
                       during the current fiscal year be appropriated for the
                       Municipal Light Plant, the whole to be expended by the
                       manager of the Municipal Lighting Plant, under the
                       direction and control of the Municipal Light Board for
                       the expense of the plant for said fiscal year as defined in
                       Section 57 of Chapter 164 of the General Laws; and said
                       Municipal Light Board is hereby further authorized to
                       pay from income of the plant for the fiscal year such
                       amounts as may be expended for extensions,
                       reconstruction enlargements, or additions and sell or
                       trade apparatus that has worn out its usefulness and is
                       unfit for requirements during the fiscal year.

ARTICLE 44             Expenses of Several Departments
                       Items 238 239 240 241              Harbor Department
                       VOTED:
                       That the sum of $598,388.00 be and hereby is
                       appropriated for the Harbor Department as follows:
                       Item 238          Salaries & Wages          $297,833.00
                       Item 239          Expense                    204,555.00
                       Item 240          Bonds and Interest           49,500.00
                       Item 241          Outlays                      46,500.00
                                                                   $598,388.00

                       To meet this appropriation, $598,388 is to be transferred
                       from harbor receipts.
ARTICLE 45             Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
                       VOTED
                       That this article be indefinitely postponed
At 10:15 PM the Moderator dissolved the 2008 Annual Town Meeting.




                                     63
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                               Marblehead Massachusetts
                                Annual Town Election
                                Monday May 12th, 2008

The Number of Votes Cast was as follows:

Precinct 1       627                   28.1% of 2,229 Registered Voters
Precinct 2       471                   23.5% of 2,004 Registered Voters
Precinct 3       457                   24.4% of 1,867 Registered Voters
Precinct 4       524                   24.5% of 2,131 Registered Voters
Precinct 5       377                   18.5% of 2,033 Registered Voters
Precinct 6       486                   22.3% of 2,175 Registered Voters
Precinct 7       593                   28.2% of 2,101 Registered Voters
Total            3535                  24.3% of 14,540 Registered Voters

             Canvas Completed at 9:00pm

                                Selectmen 1 Year Term
Vote for Five
Precinct                  1         2     3       4     5     6      7     Total
Blanks                    348       231   294     248   275   370    275   2041
Jackie Belf-Becker        149       83    97      116   85    149    116   795
Harry Christensen         157       91    114     116   76    138    132   824
Judith R. Jacobi          154       102   100     123   84    148    125   836
James E. Nye              154       86    93      126   78    149    126   812
William L. Woodfin, II    166       95    102     120   72    145    131   831
Write-Ins                 2         2     0       1     0     6      0     11
Total                     1130      690   800     850   670   1105   905   6150

                                Assessors 3 Year Term
Vote for One
Precinct         1       2       3     4      5     6     7     Total
Blanks           27      34      50    47     46    66    52    322
John P. Kelley   175     104     109   123    88    155   129   883
Write-Ins        4       0       1     0      0     0     0     5
Total            206     138     160   170    134   221   181   1210




                                             64
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                    Cemetery Commission 3 Year Term
Vote for One
          Precinct              1     2     3     4     5     6     7    Total
Blanks                         81    46    57    64    54    85    61     448
Rose Ann Wheeler McCarthy      141    91   101   106    80   134   119    772
Write-ins                       4     1     2     0     0     2     1      10
           Total               226   138   160   170   134   221   181   1230



                Cemetery Commission 2 Year Un-Expired Term
Vote for One
    Precinct        1     2  3      4    5     6    7    Total
Blanks              70   39  59    61    51   70    55    405
Richard F. Coletti 155 99 101 109 83 151 126 824
Write-ins           1     0  0      0    0     0    0      1
      Total        226 138 160 170 134 221 181 1230




                         Board of Health 3 Year Term
Vote for One
    Precinct        1     2     3     4     5     6     7    Total
Blanks             67    41    58    47    47    68    57     385
Todd Belf-Becker   157    97   102   123    87   152   124    842
Write-ins           2     0     0     0     0     1     0      3
      Total        226   138   160   170   134   221   181   1230




                                      65
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                          Housing Authority – 5 Year Term
Vote for One
      Precinct             1      2       3       4       5       6       7       Total
Blanks                    81     44      60      65      60      86      62        458
Richard M. Whitehill      144     94     100     104      73     134     119       768
Write-ins                  1      0       0       1       1       1       0         4
        Total             226    138     160     170     134     221     181      1230


                      Abbot Public Library Trustee 3 Year Term
Vote for Two
     Precinct           1      2       3       4       5       6       7      Total
Blanks                 134     73     110     103     106     134     109      769
Jean Y. Howe           157    96      102     117     75      143     124      814
Robin A. Michaud       160    107     108     120      86     164     129      874
Write-ins               1      0       0       0       1       1       0        3
      Total            452    276     320     340     286     442     362     2460


                  Municipal Light Commissioner 3 Year Term
Vote for One
    Precinct             1       2       3       4       5       6       7     Total
Blanks                  71      42      62      56      53      74      59      417
Charles O. Phillips     154      96      98     114      81     147     122     812
Write-Ins                1       0       0       0       0       0       0       1
      Total             226     138     160     170     134     221     181    1230


                                Moderator 1 Year Term
Vote for One
   Precinct       1        2       3       4       5       6       7      Total
Blanks            61       30      51      51     50       67      64      374
Gary A. Spiess   164      108     109     119     82      154     116      852
Write-Ins         1        0       0       0       2       0       1        4
    Total        226      138     160     170     134     221     181     1230




                                              66
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                            Planning Board 3 Year Term
Vote for Two
  Precinct       1      2      3      4      5      6      7     Total
Blanks          165    100    127    125    126    179    128     950
Philip Helmes   143     90     97    108     73    137    119     767
Kurt A. James   143    85     96     107    69     126    115     741
Write-Ins        1      1      0      0      0      0      0       2
    Total       452    276    320    340    268    442    362    2460


                    Planning Board 2 Year Un-Expired Term
Vote for One
    Precinct           1      2      3      4      5      6      7    Total
Blanks                 79     40    61      63    62      83     58    446
Edward O. Nilsson     147    98     99     107    72     138    123    784
Write-Ins              0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
      Total           226    138    160    170    134    221    181   1230


                 Recreation and Park Commission 1 Year Term
Vote for Five
        Precinct             1     2    3    4     5      6                7   Total
Blanks                     323 207 212 216 239 381                       260   1838
Linda A. Rice Collins      150    85 110 112 73         127              121    778
Sam K. Ganglani            136    70   96 101 89        133              109    734
Derek Y. Norcross          154    86 110 117 74         144              114    799
Charles E. Osborne, Jr.    143    88 104 119 71         129              113    767
David C. Rodgers           161    88 116 125 80         122              125    817
Rose Ann Wheeler            62    65   51   60    44     68               63    413
McCarthy
Write-Ins                    1     1    0    0     0      1               0      3
Total                     1130 690 799 850 670 1105                      905   6149




                                           67
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                       School Committee 3 Year Term
Vote for Two
       Precinct         1     2     3     4     5     6     7    Total
Blanks                 158   104   121   114   115   164   128    904
Patricia M. Blackmer   153    90   101   117    81   142   123    807
Richard S. Nohelty     141    79    98   109    70   136   111    744
Write-Ins               0     3     0     0     2     0     0      5
Total                  452   276   320   340   268   442   362   2460
`

                  Water & Sewer Commission 3 Year Term
Vote for Two
         Precinct           1   2   3      4    5     6           7      Total
Blanks                     136 83 116 111 114 149                108      817
Bradford Nick Freeman, Jr. 167 96 106 118 83 153                 132      855
John P. Doane              149 96   98 111 71 140                122      787
Write-Ins                   0   1   0      0    0     0           0        1
Total                      452 276 320 340 268 442               362     2460




                                     68
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
                     WILLIAM FRANCIS GALVIN
                SECRETARY OF THE COMMONWEALTH

        Essex, SS.

To either of the Constables of the Town of Marblehead

        GREETING:

In the name of the Commonwealth, you are hereby required to notify and warn the
inhabitants of said town who are qualified to vote in Primaries to vote at

        In Precinct 1 – Polling Place – Old Town House
        In Precinct 2 – Polling Place – Star Of The Sea Community Center
        In Precinct 3 – Polling Place – Star Of The Sea Community Center
        In Precinct 4 – Polling Place – Star Of The Sea Community Center
        In Precinct 5 – Polling Place – Marblehead Community Center
        In Precinct 6 – Polling Place – Marblehead Community Center
        In Precinct 7 – Polling Place – Marblehead Community Center

on TUESDAY, THE FIFTH DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2008, from 7:00 A.M. to
8:00 P.M. for the following purpose:

        To cast their votes in the Presidential Primary for the candidates of
        political parties for the following offices:

PRESIDENTIAL PREFERENCE . . . . . . . . . FOR THIS COMMONWEALTH
REPRESENTATIVE IN GENERAL COURT . . . . . . . .8TH ESSEX DISTRICT
STATE COMMITTEE MAN . . . . . . 3RD ESSEX & MIDDLESEX DISTRICT
STATE COMMITTEE WOMAN. . . . . . 3RD ESSEX & MIDDLESEX DISTRICT
TOWN COMMITTEE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . MARBLEHEAD




                                       69
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


         Hereof fail not and make return of this warrant with your doings thereon at
the time and place of said voting.

        Given under our hands this 16TH day of January 2008.

                          Harry C. Christensen, Jr., Chairman
                          Jackie Belf-Becker
                          Judith R. Jacobi
                          James E. Nye
                          Selectmen of Marblehead
True Copy Attest
Cabot W. Dodge- Constable




                                        70
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                           Town of Marblehead
                              State Election
                         Tuesday, February 5, 2008

The Number of Votes Cast were as follows
Precinct 1     1266              56% of 2,262 Registered Voters
Precinct 2     1066              51% of 2,070 Registered Voters
Precinct 3     1085              55% of 1,953 Registered Voters
Precinct 4     1318              60% of 2,191 Registered Voters
Precinct 5     1223              58% of 2,106 Registered Voters
Precinct 6     1320              60% of 2,199 Registered Voters
Precinct 7     1192              55% of 2,164 Registered Voters
Total          8,470             57% of 14,945 Registered Voters

Canvas Completed at 10:30 pm

                     Democratic Presidential Preference
          Precinct        1     2     3     4     5     6     7     Total
    Blanks                1     5     0     2     4     5     2      19
    John R. Edwards       6     4    10     9     7     9     8      53
    Hillary Clinton      369 318 354 347 489 402             338    2617
    Joseph R. Biden, Jr.  1     0     2     4     5     2     1      15
    Christopher J. Dodd   0     0     0     0     0     0     1       1
    Mike Gravel           1     1     2     0     0     0     0       4
    Barack Obama         396 354 314 413 346 400             353    2576
    Dennis J. Kucinich    1     1     3     1     3     3     0      12
    Bill Richardson       2     0     0     0     2     0     2       6
    No Preference         5     3     4     3     7     6     4      32
    Write-Ins             1     2     1     1     1     2     1       9
           Total         783 688 690 780 864 829             710    5344

                Democratic – Representative In General Court
                            Eighth Essex District
          Precinct       1     2     3     4      5   6     7      Total
      Blanks             92   90    80    60      54 77    79       532
      Cesar A. Archilla 93 127 108 134 96            93 117         768
      Lori A. Ehrlich   597 464 501 584 711 646 509                4012
      Write-Ins          1     7     1     2      3  13     5        32
            Total       783 688 690 780 864 829 710                5344




                                     71
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                Democratic - State Committee Man
                 Third Essex & Middlesex District
    Precinct       1      2     3    4     5      6     7    Total
Blanks            331 268 253 311 352 336              285   2136
Robert F. Fennell 450 418 435 467 511 488              423   3192
Write-Ins          2      2     2    2     1      5     2     16
     Total        783 688 690 780 864 829              710   5344


            Democratic - State Committee Woman
               Third Essex & Middlesex District
   Precinct     1      2     3    4     5       6 7          Total
Blanks         309 249 245 305 338 327 276                   2049
Laura E. Walsh 474 435 444 474 525 498 433                   3283
Write-Ins       0      4     1    1     1       4 1           12
    Total      783 688 690 780 864 829 710                   5344


                 Democratic -Town Committee
                         Marblehead
   Precinct    1    2    3     4    5    6        7     Total
   Blanks     477 419 424 483 546 512            441    3302
   Group      306 269 266 297 318 317            269    2042
    Total     783 688 690 780 864 829            710    5344


              Republican Presidential Preference
   Precinct      1     2    3      4     5     6       7     Total
Blanks           5     5    4      0     2     2       1      19
John McCain     230 187 191 239 155 210               187    1399
Fred Thompson    2     0    2      0     0     0       1      5
Tom Tancredo     1     0    0      0     0     0       0       1
Duncan Hunter    0     0    0      0     0     0       0       0
Mike Huckabee    7     5    10     3     4     6       4      39
Mitt Romney     223 158 170 279 187 260               271    1548
Ron Paul         12   12    14    14     3    10       11     76
Rudy Giuliani    0     3    2      0     5     1       2      13
No Preference    1     4    2      2     1     2       3      15




                              72
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


  Write-Ins        2     4     0     1     2     0      2       11
      Total       483   378   395   538   359   491    482     3126


           Republican – Representative In General Court
                        Eighth Essex District
     Precinct        1     2      3     4     5   6     7       Total
Blanks               60    26    48    72     63  57    46       372
John Blaisdell      315 245 258 287 183 312 309                 1909
Tanya S. Degenova 106 105 87 177 110 119 120                     824
Write-Ins            2     2      2     2     3   3     7         21
       Total        483 378 395 538 359 491 482                 3126


                Republican – State Committee Man
                  Third Essex & Middlesex District
      Precinct         1     2    3     4     5    6      7      Total
Blanks               212 155 185 231 153 219             217     1372
Stephen M. Zykofsky 270 220 208 306 202 267              264     1737
Write-Ins              1     3    2     1     4    5      1       17
        Total        483 378 395 538 359 491             482     3126


               Republican – State Committee Woman
                  Third Essex & Middlesex District
     Precinct        1     2     3    4     5      6    7      Total
      Blanks       202 149 158 219 149 199             203     1279
 Joyce H. Lofmark 281 226 236 317 204 290              277     1831
     Write-Ins       0     3     1    2     6      2    2       16
       Total       483 378 395 538 359 491             482     3126

                   Republican – Town Committee
                            Marblehead
     Precinct    1    2     3     4    5   6   7         Total
     Blanks     291 248 246 334 229 296 315              1959
     Group      192 130 149 204 130 195 167              1167
      Total     483 378 395 538 359 491 482              3126




                               73
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                 COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
                      WILLIAM FRANCIS GALVIN
                 SECRETARY OF THE COMMONWEALTH
                     WARRANT Special State Election

Essex County, SS.

To either of the Constables of the Town of Marblehead

         GREETING:

In the name of the Commonwealth, you are hereby required to notify and warn the
inhabitants of said town who are qualified to vote in Primaries to vote at

Precinct 1        Old Town House                                1 Market Square
Precinct 2        Star of the Sea Community Center              80 Atlantic Avenue
Precinct 3        Star Of The Sea Community Center              80 Atlantic Avenue
Precinct 4        Star Of The Sea Community Center              80 Atlantic Avenue
Precinct 5        Marblehead Community Center                   80 Atlantic Avenue
Precinct 6        Marblehead Community Center                   80 Atlantic Avenue
Precinct 7        Marblehead Community Center                   80 Atlantic Avenue

on TUESDAY, THE FOURTH DAY OF March, 2008, from 7:00 A.M. to 8:00
P.M. for the following purpose:

         To cast their votes in the Special State Election for the Candidates for the
         following office:

Representative in General Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8th Essex District

         Hereof fail not and make return of this warrant with your doings thereon at
the time and place of said voting.

        Given under our hands this 25th day of February 2008.
        Harry C. Christensen
        Judith R. Jacobi
        Jackie Belf-Becker
        James E. Nye
        Selectmen of Marblehead
True Copy Attest,Cabot W. Dodge, Constable




                                         74
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


               COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
                   SPECIAL STATE ELECTION
                     Tuesday, March 4th 2008

Precinct 1      691           31% of 2,261 Registered Voters
Precinct 2      522           25% of 2,082 Registered Voters
Precinct 3      517           26% of 1,965 Registered Voters
Precinct 4      557           25% of 2,212 Registered Voters
Precinct 5      600           28% of 2,111 Registered Voters
Precinct 6      606           28% of 2,175 Registered Voters
Precinct 7      596           27% of 2,201 Registered Voters
Total           4,089         27% of 15,000 Registered Voters
Canvas completed at 8:45pm

                      Representative in General Court
                           Eight Essex District
         Precinct      1     2     3     4     5    6    7      Total
       Blanks          0     0     0     0     0    0    0        0
       Mark Barry      63   54    57     51   44   69   67       405
       John Blaisdell 294 209 208 196 148 203           265     1523
       Laurie Ehrlich 334 259 252 310 407 334           260     2156
       Write Ins       0     0     0     0     1    0    4        5
           Total      691 522 517 557 600 606           596     4089




                                   75
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                 COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
                      WILLIAM FRANCIS GALVIN
                 SECRETARY OF THE COMMONWEALTH
                       WARRANT Special Election

Essex County, SS.

To either of the Constables of the Town of Marblehead

         GREETING:

In the name of the Commonwealth, you are hereby required to notify and warn the
inhabitants of said town who are qualified to vote in Primaries to vote at

Precinct 1        Old Town House                                 1 Market Square
Precinct 2        Star Of The Sea Community Center               80 Atlantic Avenue
Precinct 3        Star Of The Sea Community Center               80 Atlantic Avenue
Precinct 4        Star Of The Sea Community Center               80 Atlantic Avenue
Precinct 5        Marblehead Community Center                    80 Atlantic Avenue
Precinct 6        Marblehead Community Center                    80 Atlantic Avenue
Precinct 7        Marblehead Community Center                    80 Atlantic Avenue

on TUESDAY, THE SEVENTEENTH OF June, 2008 next A.D. at 7 o’clock in
the forenoon then and there to bring into the precinct officers of their respective
precincts their votes on one ballot on the following questions to wit:

                                     Question 1:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from provisions of proposition
two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bonds to be issued
in order to finance the cost associated with a feasibility study for the Glover School
project located on Maple Street?

         YES_________                                  NO_________

                                      Question 2:
Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bonds
to be issued in order to finance the costs associated with the architectural, project
management, and construction costs of the Village School project located on




                                          76
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Village Street, provided that all construction costs be directly related to heating,
plumbing, electrical, mechanical, building code accessibility, fire and life safety,
replacement of ceilings, light fixtures, and other building systems, roof, windows,
flooring, walls, brickwork, lockers and site road access?

         YES_________                          NO_________


                       Town of Marblehead, Massachusetts
                             Special State Election
                            Tuesday, June 17, 2008

The Number of Votes Cast were as follows:

Precinct 1        565      25.0% of 2,267 Registered Voters
Precinct 2        451      22.0% of 2,070 Registered Voters
Precinct 3        435      22.0% of 1,973 Registered Voters
Precinct 4        591      27.0% of 2,208 Registered Voters
Precinct 5        522      25.0% of 2,125 Registered Voters
Precinct 6        592      27.0% of 2,197 Registered Voters
Precinct 7        525      24.0% of 2,168 Registered Voters
Total             3,681    25.0% of 15,008 Registered Voters

Canvas Completed at 8:45pm


                                     Question 1:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from provisions of proposition
two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bonds to be issued
in order to finance the cost associated with a feasibility study for the Glover School
project located on Maple Street?


               Precinct    1      2      3      4     5     6      7      Total
      Blanks               1      1      2      1     0     0      0      5
      Yes                  333    262    290    399   365   405    311    2365
      No                   231    188    143    191   157   187    214    1311
      Total                565    451    435    591   522   592    525    3681




                                         77
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                                     Question 2

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bonds
to be issued in order to finance the costs associated with the architectural, project
management, and construction costs of the Village School project located on
Village Street, provided that all construction costs be directly related to heating,
plumbing, electrical, mechanical, building code accessibility, fire and life safety,
replacement of ceilings, light fixtures, and other building systems, roof, windows,
flooring, walls, brickwork, lockers and site road access?

           Precinct    1      2     3      4      5     6      7      Total
           Blanks      0      1     0      1      0     1      1      4
           Yes         353    278   303    413    371   417    329    2464
           No          212    172   132    177    151   174    195    1213
           Total       565    451   435    591    522   592    525    3681




                                          78
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                 COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
                      WILLIAM FRANCIS GALVIN
                 SECRETARY OF THE COMMONWEALTH

County of Essex SS.

To either of the Constables of the Town of Marblehead
         GREETING:

In the name of the Commonwealth, you are hereby required to notify and warn the
inhabitants of said town who are qualified to vote in Primaries to vote at:
         In Precinct 1 – Polling Place – Old Town House
         In Precinct 2 – Polling Place – Star Of The Sea Community Center
         In Precinct 3 – Polling Place – Star Of The Sea Community Center
         In Precinct 4 – Polling Place – Star Of The Sea Community Center
         In Precinct 5 – Polling Place – Marblehead Community Center
         In Precinct 6 – Polling Place – Marblehead Community Center
         In Precinct 7 – Polling Place – Marblehead Community Center

on TUESDAY, THE SIXTEENTH DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 2008, from 7:00
A.M. to 8:00 P.M. for the following purpose:

To cast their votes in the State Primary for the candidates of political parties for the
following offices:
         SENATOR IN CONGRESS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
         REPRESENTATIVE IN CONGRESS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . SIXTH DISTRICT
         COUNCILLOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . FIFTH DISTRICT
         SENATOR IN GENERAL COURT . . . .. . THIRD ESSEX & MIDDLESEX DISTRICT
         REPRESENTATIVE IN GENERAL COURT. . . . . . . . . EIGHT ESSEX DISTRICT
         REGISTER OF PROBATE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ESSEX COUNTY

         Hereof fail not and make return of this warrant with your doings thereon at
the time and place of said voting.

         Given under our hands this 11th day of August, 2008.
                          Jackie Belf-Becker
                          Judith R. Jacobi
                          James E. Nye
                          Selectmen of Marblehead

                  A True Copy Attest: Cabot W. Dodge, Constable




                                          79
                            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                    COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
                            STATE PRIMARY
                       TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2008

The Number of Votes Cast were as follows:

Precinct 1           389                17% of 2,273 Registered Voters
Precinct 2           270                13% of 2,069 Registered Voters
Precinct 3           317                16% of 1,971 Registered Voters
Precinct 4           324                14% of 2,215 Registered Voters
Precinct 5           348                16% of 2,123 Registered Voters
Precinct 6           320                14% of 2,191 Registered Voters
Precinct 7           264                12% of 2,181 Registered Voters
Total                2232               15% of 15,023 Registered Voters

                 Canvass Completed at 9:15pm

                             Democratic Senator in Congress
     Precinct               1     2       3      4      5        6           7    Total
Blanks                      5       4       1      2      4      0           0        16
John F. Kerry            236      179     203     199    235    199         159      1410
Edward J O'Reilly           73     48      68     78     87      82         61       497
Write-Ins                    0     0        0     0       0      0           1        1
         Total           314      231     272     279    326    281         221      1924


                      Democratic Representative in Congress
            Precinct      1     2     3     4     5    6    7             Total
         Blanks          52     44   44    52     53   50   44             339
         John F. Tierney 259 186 223 225 270 227 177                      1567
         Write-ins        3     1     5     2     3    4    0               18
             Total       314 231 272 279 326 281 221                      1924

                                  Democratic Councillor
         Precinct                 1   2      3   4      5       6      7     Total
    Blanks                       73   51    54   76     90     73     54      471
    Mary-Ellen Manning           203 156 181 171 194           180    138    1223




                                            80
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


    Timothy P. Houten        38    23    36     32    42    27      29        227
    Write-ins                0     1     1      0     0     1       0          3
           Total            314   231   272    279   326   281     221       1924


                       Democratic Senator in General Court
    Precinct      1        2       3      4       5       6              7      Total
   Blanks         86      60      73     75      82      81             65       522
   Thomas M.     226     169     197    202     242     199            156      1391
   McGee
   Write-ins      2        2       2      2       2         1           0        11
      Total      314      231     272    279     326       281         221      1924


                Democratic Representative in General Court
         Precinct      1    2     3     4     5     6     7             Total
      Blanks          47    37    34    41    41   44    34              278
      Lori A. Ehrlich 265 192 236 237 283 235 186                       1634
      Write-ins        2    2     2     1     2     2     1               12
           Total      314 231 272 279 326 281 221                       1924


                         Democratic Register of Probate
      Precinct            1   2      3     4     5     6          7     Total
Blanks                   92   73    76 100 104 96                72      613
Pamela Casey O’Brien     221 157 195 178 222 183                 149    1305
Write-ins                 1   1      1     1     0     2          0       6
        Total            314 231 272 279 326 281                 221    1924

                      Republican Senator in Congress
             Precinct      1    2   3     4   5   6         7      Total
         Blanks            8    4 10 2        1   1         6       32
         Jeffery K. Beatty 66 35 34 43 21 37                37      273
         Write-ins         1    0   1     0   0   1         0        3
               Total       75 39 45 45 22 39                43      308




                                        81
           MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


          Republican Representative in Congress
    Precinct       1   2    3    4    5   6    7      Total
Blanks             7   5    9    6    2   2    6       37
Richard A. Baker 68 34 36 39 20 36 37                  270
Write-ins          0   0    0    0    0   1    0        1
     Total        75 39 45 45 22 39 43                 308


                     Republican Councillor
   Precinct     1      2    3   4   5     6   7    Total
   Blanks       63    31 41 39 16 33          38    261
   Write-ins    12     8    4   6   6     6   5      47
    Total       75    39 45 45 22 39          43    308


          Republican Senator in General Court
   Precinct 1      2    3   4    5   6    7 Total
   Blanks     61 32 39 35 18 33 35 253
   Write-ins 14 7       6 10 4       6    8   55
    Total     75 39 45 45 22 39 43 308


      Republican Representative in General Court
   Precinct     1   2    3    4    5   6    7 Total
 Blanks         5   4    3    3    3   5    3    26
 John Blaisdell 69 35 42 42 19 33 40 280
 Write-ins      1   0    0    0    0   1    0     2
     Total      75 39 45 45 22 39 43 308


               Republican Register of Probate
   Precinct      1   2    3   4     5    6    7    Total
   Blanks       65 33 41 38 19 34 38                268
   Write-ins    10 6      4   7     3    5    5      40
    Total       75 39 45 45 22 39 43                308




                              82
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


               COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
                    WILLIAM FRANCIS GALVIN
               SECRETARY OF THE COMMONWEALTH
County of Essex SS.

To either of the Constables of the Town of Marblehead

         GREETING:

In the name of the Commonwealth, you are hereby required to notify and warn the
inhabitants of said Town who are qualified to vote in the State Election to vote at:

         In Precinct 1 – Polling Place – Old Town House
         In Precinct 2 – Polling Place – Star Of The Sea Community Center
         In Precinct 3 – Polling Place – Star Of The Sea Community Center
         In Precinct 4 – Polling Place – Star Of The Sea Community Center
         In Precinct 5 – Polling Place – Marblehead Community Center
         In Precinct 6 – Polling Place – Marblehead Community Center
         In Precinct 7 – Polling Place – Marblehead Community Center

on TUESDAY, THE FOURTH DAY OF NOVEMBER, 2008, from 7:00 A.M. to
8:00 P.M. for the following purpose:

To cast their votes in the State Election for the candidates for the following offices:

ELECTORS OF PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT . . . . STATEWIDE
SENATOR IN CONGRESS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
REPRESENTATIVE IN CONGRESS . . . . . . . . . . . . . SIXTH DISTRICT
COUNCILLOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . FIFTH DISTRICT
SENATOR IN GENERAL COURT . . . . . . . . . . . THIRD ESSEX & MIDDLESEX DISTRICT
REPRESENTATIVE IN GENERAL COURT. . . . . . . . . EIGHT ESSEX DISTRICT
REGISTER OF PROBATE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ESSEX COUNTY

        QUESTION 1: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the
Senate or the House of Representatives before May 6, 2008?
                                     SUMMARY
This proposed law would reduce the state personal income tax rate to 2.65% for all
categories of taxable income for the tax year beginning on or after January 1, 2009,
and would eliminate the tax for all tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2010.
         The personal income tax applies to income received or gain realized by
individuals and married couples, by estates of deceased persons, by certain trustees




                                          83
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


and other fiduciaries, by persons who are partners in and receive income from
partnerships, by corporate trusts, and by persons who receive income as
shareholders of “S corporations” as defined under federal tax law. The proposed
law would not affect the tax due on income or gain realized in a tax year beginning
before January 1, 2009.
         The proposed law states that if any of its parts were declared invalid, the
other parts would stay in effect.
A YES VOTE would reduce the state personal income tax rate to 2.65% for the tax
year beginning on January 1, 2009, and would eliminate the tax for all tax years
beginning on or after January 1, 2010.
A NO VOTE would make no change in state income tax laws.


         QUESTION 2: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the
Senate or the House of Representatives before May 6, 2008?
                                    SUMMARY
          This proposed law would replace the criminal penalties for possession of
one ounce or less of marijuana with a new system of civil penalties, to be enforced
by issuing citations, and would exclude information regarding this civil offense
from the state's criminal record information system. Offenders age 18 or older
would be subject to forfeiture of the marijuana plus a civil penalty of $100.
Offenders under the age of 18 would be subject to the same forfeiture and, if they
complete a drug awareness program within one year of the offense, the same $100
penalty.
          Offenders under 18 and their parents or legal guardian would be notified of
the offense and the option for the offender to complete a drug awareness program
developed by the state Department of Youth Services. Such programs would
include ten hours of community service and at least four hours of instruction or
group discussion concerning the use and abuse of marijuana and other drugs and
emphasizing early detection and prevention of substance abuse.
          The penalty for offenders under 18 who fail to complete such a program
within one year could be increased to as much as $1,000, unless the offender
showed an inability to pay, an inability to participate in such a program, or the
unavailability of such a program. Such an offender's parents could also be held
liable for the increased penalty. Failure by an offender under 17 to complete such a
program could also be a basis for a delinquency proceeding.
          The proposed law would define possession of one ounce or less of
marijuana as including possession of one ounce or less of tetrahydrocannibinol
("THC"), or having metabolized products of marijuana or THC in one's body.




                                        84
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


         Under the proposed law, possessing an ounce or less of marijuana could
not be grounds for state or local government entities imposing any other penalty,
sanction, or disqualification, such as denying student financial aid, public housing,
public financial assistance including unemployment benefits, the right to operate a
motor vehicle, or the opportunity to serve as a foster or adoptive parent. The
proposed law would allow local ordinances or bylaws that prohibit the public use of
marijuana, and would not affect existing laws, practices, or policies concerning
operating a motor vehicle or taking other actions while under the influence of
marijuana, unlawful possession of prescription forms of marijuana, or selling,
manufacturing, or trafficking in marijuana.
         The money received from the new civil penalties would go to the city or
town where the offense occurred.
A YES VOTE would replace the criminal penalties for possession of one ounce or
less of marijuana with a new system of civil penalties.
A NO VOTE would make no change in state criminal laws concerning possession
of marijuana.

         QUESTION 3: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the
Senate or the House of Representatives before May 6, 2008?
                                      SUMMARY
This proposed law would prohibit any dog racing or racing meeting in
Massachusetts where any form of betting or wagering on the speed or ability of
dogs occurs.
          The State Racing Commission would be prohibited from accepting or
approving any application or request for racing dates for dog racing.
          Any person violating the proposed law could be required to pay a civil
penalty of not less than $20,000 to the Commission. The penalty would be used for
the Commission’s administrative purposes, subject to appropriation by the state
Legislature. All existing parts of the chapter of the state’s General Laws concerning
dog and horse racing meetings would be interpreted as if they did not refer to dogs.
          These changes would take effect January 1, 2010. The proposed law states
that if any of its parts were declared invalid, the other parts would stay in effect.
A YES VOTE would prohibit dog races on which betting or wagering occurs,
effective January 1, 2010.
A NO VOTE would make no change in the laws governing dog racing.

         Hereof fail not and make return of this warrant with your doings thereon at
the time and place of said voting.




                                        85
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Given under our hands at Marblehead aforesaid this 3rd day of October, 2008

                 Jackie Belf-Becker, Chairman
                 Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                 Judith R. Jacobi
                 James E. Nye
                 Selectmen of Marblehead

A True Copy Attest: Cabot W. Dodge, Constable




                                       86
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                        Commonwealth of Massachusetts
                                State Election
                          Tuesday, November 4, 2008

The Number of Votes Cast were as follows:
Precinct 1     1854     79.3% of 2,337 Registered Voters
Precinct 2     1640     77.8% of 2,107 Registered Voters
Precinct 3     1579     78.09% of 2,022 Registered Voters
Precinct 4     1888     84.06% of 2,246 Registered Voters
Precinct 5     1779     82.1% of 2,166 Registered Voters
Precinct 6     1894     84.6% of 2,233 Registered Voters
Precinct 7     1826     82.06% of 2,225 Registered Voters
Total          12460 81.2% of 15,341 Registered Voters

Canvas Completed at 9:00 pm

                      Electors of President & Vice President
       Precinct           1       2      3     4       5      6     7     Total
Blanks                   10      11      6     9       6      7    14      63
Baldwin & Castle          0       1      4     0       0      2     3      10
Barr & Root              16       9      4     6       5      9     5      54
McCain & Palin           647    533     554   783     656    752   734    4659
McKinney &                3       0      5     2       3      1     5      19
Clemente
Nader & Gonzalez         3      17      9     8      14     4       18     73
Obama & Biden           1165   1060    991   1071   1086   1107    1033   7513
Hilary Clinton           3      2       4     0      7      8       6      30
Ron Paul                 3      0       0     0      1      1       0       5
All others               4      7       2     9      1      3       8      34
        Total           1854   1640   1579   1888   1779   1894    1826   12460

                               Senator in Congress
      Precinct            1      2      3     4     5        6       7    Total
Blanks                   42     31     34     40   46       40      46     279
John F. Kerry           1124   1045 1007 1046 1157         1132    1031   7542
Jeffery K. Beatty        644    512    504   769   542      686     712   4369
Robert J. Underwood      44     51     33     32   32       36      35     263
All others                0      1      1     1     2        0       2      7
        Total           1854   1640 1579 1888 1779         1894    1826   12460




                                       87
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                         Representative in Congress
                               Sixth District
    Precinct          1    2     3       4     5     6            7       Total
Blanks               90   70    59      68     59   66           62        474
John F. Tierney     1211 1147 1081 1181 1284 1268               1186      8358
Richard A. Baker     553  422   437     639   435   559          576      3621
All others            0    1     2       0     1     1            2         7
      Total         1854 1640 1579 1888 1779 1894               1826      12460


                                   Councillor
                                  Fifth District
      Precinct           1      2       3        4    5      6        7       Total
Blanks                  613    511    519      694   605    671      687      4300
Mary-Ellen Manning     1225   1123 1052 1184         1170   1205     1130     8089
All others               16     6       8       10    4      18       9        71
        Total          1854   1640 1579 1888         1779   1894     1826     12460


                            Senator in General Court
                         Third Essex & Middlesex District
     Precinct          1       2      3     4       5      6        7       Total
Blanks                583     482    476   637    536     594      623      3931
Thomas M. McGee      1256 1153 1097 1240 1240 1286                 1195     8467
All others             15      5      6     11      3      14       8        62
       Total         1854 1640 1579 1888 1779 1894                 1826     12460


                         Representative in General Court
                               Eighth Essex District
     Precinct          1      2      3      4        5    6          7      Total
  Blanks             109    104     101    109      100  119        98       740
  Lori A. Ehrlich    1057 947       927 1103 1204 1158              981     7377
  John Blaisdell      688   589     551    675      473  617        745     4338
  All other            0      0      0      1        2    0          2        5
       Total         1854 1640 1579 1888 1779 1894                 1826     12460




                                       88
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                              Registrar of Probate
                                  Essex County
       Precinct            1    2       3      4    5              6       7      Total
Blanks                    633  528    536     690  623            684     687     4381
Pamela Casey             1207 1110 1041 1191 1154                1202    1134     8039
O’Brien
All others                14      2       2       7       2       8       5        40
        Total            1854    1640    1579    1888    1779    1894    1826     12460


        QUESTION 1: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the
Senate or the House of Representatives before May 6, 2008?
                                     SUMMARY
This proposed law would reduce the state personal income tax rate to 2.65% for all
categories of taxable income for the tax year beginning on or after January 1, 2009,
and would eliminate the tax for all tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2010.
         The personal income tax applies to income received or gain realized by
individuals and married couples, by estates of deceased persons, by certain trustees
and other fiduciaries, by persons who are partners in and receive income from
partnerships, by corporate trusts, and by persons who receive income as
shareholders of “S corporations” as defined under federal tax law. The proposed
law would not affect the tax due on income or gain realized in a tax year beginning
before January 1, 2009.
         The proposed law states that if any of its parts were declared invalid, the
other parts would stay in effect.
A YES VOTE would reduce the state personal income tax rate to 2.65% for the tax
year beginning on January 1, 2009, and would eliminate the tax for all tax years
beginning on or after January 1, 2010.
A NO VOTE would make no change in state income tax laws.

      Precinct      1       2       3       4       5       6       7     Total
      Blanks        45      51      29      56      35      41      48     305
      YES          634     522     514     698     574     581     660    4183
      NO          1175    1067    1036    1134    1170    1272    1118    7972
       Total      1854    1640    1579    1888    1779    1894    1826    12460




                                         89
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


         QUESTION 2: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the
Senate or the House of Representatives before May 6, 2008?
                                     SUMMARY
          This proposed law would replace the criminal penalties for possession of
one ounce or less of marijuana with a new system of civil penalties, to be enforced
by issuing citations, and would exclude information regarding this civil offense
from the state's criminal record information system. Offenders age 18 or older
would be subject to forfeiture of the marijuana plus a civil penalty of $100.
Offenders under the age of 18 would be subject to the same forfeiture and, if they
complete a drug awareness program within one year of the offense, the same $100
penalty.
          Offenders under 18 and their parents or legal guardian would be notified of
the offense and the option for the offender to complete a drug awareness program
developed by the state Department of Youth Services. Such programs would
include ten hours of community service and at least four hours of instruction or
group discussion concerning the use and abuse of marijuana and other drugs and
emphasizing early detection and prevention of substance abuse.
          The penalty for offenders under 18 who fail to complete such a program
within one year could be increased to as much as $1,000, unless the offender
showed an inability to pay, an inability to participate in such a program, or the
unavailability of such a program. Such an offender's parents could also be held
liable for the increased penalty. Failure by an offender under 17 to complete such a
program could also be a basis for a delinquency proceeding.
          The proposed law would define possession of one ounce or less of
marijuana as including possession of one ounce or less of tetrahydrocannabinol
("THC"), or having metabolized products of marijuana or THC in one's body.
          Under the proposed law, possessing an ounce or less of marijuana could
not be grounds for state or local government entities imposing any other penalty,
sanction, or disqualification, such as denying student financial aid, public housing,
public financial assistance including unemployment benefits, the right to operate a
motor vehicle, or the opportunity to serve as a foster or adoptive parent. The
proposed law would allow local ordinances or bylaws that prohibit the public use of
marijuana, and would not affect existing laws, practices, or policies concerning
operating a motor vehicle or taking other actions while under the influence of
marijuana, unlawful possession of prescription forms of marijuana, or selling,
manufacturing, or trafficking in marijuana.
          The money received from the new civil penalties would go to the city or
town where the offense occurred.




                                        90
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


A YES VOTE would replace the criminal penalties for possession of one ounce or
less of marijuana with a new system of civil penalties.
A NO VOTE would make no change in state criminal laws concerning possession
of marijuana.

      Precinct     1      2       3       4       5      6       7      Total
      Blanks       40     39      28      39      30     26      22      224
      YES         1247   1107    1076    1247    1162   1226    1211    8276
      NO          567    494     475     602     587    642     593     3960
       Total      1854   1640    1579    1888    1779   1894    1826    12460


         QUESTION 3: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the
Senate or the House of Representatives before May 6, 2008?
                                      SUMMARY
This proposed law would prohibit any dog racing or racing meeting in
Massachusetts where any form of betting or wagering on the speed or ability of
dogs occurs.
          The State Racing Commission would be prohibited from accepting or
approving any application or request for racing dates for dog racing.
          Any person violating the proposed law could be required to pay a civil
penalty of not less than $20,000 to the Commission. The penalty would be used for
the Commission’s administrative purposes, subject to appropriation by the state
Legislature. All existing parts of the chapter of the state’s General Laws concerning
dog and horse racing meetings would be interpreted as if they did not refer to dogs.
          These changes would take effect January 1, 2010. The proposed law states
that if any of its parts were declared invalid, the other parts would stay in effect.
A YES VOTE would prohibit dog races on which betting or wagering occurs,
effective January 1, 2010.
A NO VOTE would make no change in the laws governing dog racing.

      Precinct     1      2       3       4       5      6       7      Total
      Blanks       62     41      39      49      40     36      34      301
      YES         1173   1037    896     1143    976    1052    1040    7317
      NO          619    562     644     696     763    806     752     4842
       Total      1854   1640    1579    1888    1779   1894    1826    12460




                                        91
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


     TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD ELECTED OFFICIALS 2008 - 2009

SELECTMAN                                              Term Expires
--Abbot Hall, Marblehead, MA 01945
Jackie Belf-Becker- Chair                                     2009
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.                                     2009
Judith R. Jacobi                                              2009
James E. Nye                                                  2009
William L. Woodfin, II                                        2009

TOWN CLERK
--Abbot Hall, Marblehead, MA 01945
Robin A. Michaud                                              2010

ASSESSORS
--Mary A. Alley Building, Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945
John P. Kelley – Chair                                        2011
Ann Nancy McCarthy - Secretary                                2010
Richard O. Riess                                              Resigned

CEMETERY COMMISSION
--Waterside Cemetery, Marblehead, MA 01945
Dexter C. Gillis -Chair                                       2009
Rose Ann Wheeler McCarthy - Clerk                             2011
Richard F. Coletti                                            2010

BOARD OF HEALTH
--Mary A. Alley Building, Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945
Todd Belf-Becker                                              2011
Carl D. Goodman - Chair                                       2009
Helaine Hazlett - Secretary                                   2010

HOUSING AUTHORITY
--26 Rowland Street, Marblehead, MA 01945
Pamela Basso – Chair                                          2009
Robert T. Bryne                                               2010
Jean R. Eldridge                                              2011
Peter Russell – Appointed by State                            2011
Richard M. Whitehill                                          2013




                                     92
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


TRUSTEES OF ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY
--235 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA 01945              Term Expires
Peggy G. Blass                                                 2009
Judy Gates                                                     Resigned
Jean Howe                                                      2011
Susan L. Indresano                                             2009
Robin A. Michaud                                               2011
Philip Sweeney - Chair                                         2010

MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSIONER
Wilbur E. Bassett                                               2009
Calvin T. Crawford                                              2010
Walter E. Homan                                                 2010
Charles O. Phillips                                             2011
Philip W. Sweeney, Chair                                        2009

MODERATOR
Mary A. Alley Building, Marblehead MA
Gary A. Spiess                                                  2009

PLANNING BOARD
--c/o Engineering Office, Mary A. Alley Building, Marblehead, MA 01945
James Bishop                                                     2009
Philip Helmes                                                    2011
Kurt A. James                                                    2011
Karl A. Johnson                                                  2009
Edward Nilsson                                                   2010

RECREATION & PARK COMMISSION
--Marblehead Community Center, 10 Humphrey Street, Marblehead, MA
Linda A. Rice Collins                                       2009
Sam K. Ganglani                                             2009
Derek Y. Norcross                                           2009
Charles E. Osborne, Jr.                                     2009
David C. Rodgers                                            2009

SCHOOL COMMITTEE
--Mary A. Alley Building, Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945
Patricia M. Blackmer                                            2011
James Dearborn                                                  2009




                                    93
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Amy T. Drinker                                         2010
Jonathan S. Lederman                                   2010
Richard Scott Nohelty                                  2011

WATER & SEWER COMMISSION
--Tower Way, Marblehead MA 01945                 Term Expires
Wilbur E. Bassett                                      2010
Emerson F. Brown - Vice Chair                          2009
John P. Doane                                          2011
Bradford Nick Freeman, Jr.                             2011
F. Carlton Siegel - Chair                              2010




                                   94
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                    TOWN OFFICIALS APPOINTED
                   BY THE BOARD OF SELECTMEN
                            May 2008

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR
Anthony M. Sasso

AMERICAN DISABILITIES ACT COORDINATOR
Anthony M. Sasso                                   2009

ANIMAL INSPECTOR at $1,200 per year
Isabel M. Lorenco                                  2009

BUILDING COMMISSIONER AND INSPECTORS
Commissioner - Robert S. Ives, Jr.                 2009
Local Inspector - William R. Doane                 2009
Local Inspector - Chris Butler                     2009
Plumbing Inspector - Domingos Furtado              2009
Assistant Plumbing Inspector – Peter McCarriston   2009
Wiring Inspector – Ronald J. Marks                 2009
Assistant Wiring Inspector – Eric F.S. Chisholm    2009

CANINE CONTROL CLERK
Robin Michaud – Town Clerk                         2009

ASSISTANT DOG OFFICERS FOR THE PARKS
Robert Gillis                                      2009
R. Thomas Hamond                                   2009
Peter James                                        2009
C. Michael Lane                                    2009
Ed Park                                            2009
Reggie Berry                                       2009
Mike Atkins                                        2009
Greg Snow                                          2009
Art Beauchesne                                     2009
Walter Leszczynski                                 2009

TOWN COUNSEL at $2,000 per year
Jeffrey N. Shribman                                2009
         Assistant Town Counsel:




                                   95
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


        Brody, Hardoon, Perkins & Kesten        2009
        Leonard Kesten                          2009
        Marc J. Miller                          2009
        Earl Weissman                           2009
        Patrick J. Costello                     2009
        Lisa L. Mead                            2009
        Francis Mayo                            2009

COUNCIL ON AGING DIRECTOR
Patricia C. Roberts                             2009

EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR
Charles P. Cerrutti                             2009

TOWN ENGINEER
Douglas W. Saal                                 2009

FLAG OFFICER
David C. Rodgers                                2009

FOREST WARDEN – Term: 1 Year
Chief Barry C. Dixey, Fire Department           2009

HARBOR MASTER AND ASSISTANTS
Charles J. Dalferro, Harbor Master              2009
         Assistant Harbor Masters
         Webb Russell                           2009
         Daniel Roads, Jr.                      2009
         Assistant Harbormasters (Seasonal):
         Frank MacIver                          2009
         Thomas Murray                          2009
         Ray Gauthier                           2009
         Joseph Homan                           2009
         Jeffrey Flynn                          2009
         Carlo Fratini                          2009

LICENSING AUTHORITY, DULY DESIGNATED AGENTS
Police Chief Robert O. Picariello               2009
Provisional Captain: Mark Mills                 2009
Lieutenants:




                                        96
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


             Matthew Freeman                          2009
             Jonathan Lunt                            2009
             David J. Millett                         2009
             Nicholas Economou                        2009
Sergeants:
             Sean Sweeney                             2009
             Donald Decker                            2009
             Marion Keating                           2009
             Jason Conrad                             2009

MEASURER OF LEATHER – Term: 1 Year
John Smidt                                            2009

TOWN DESIGNEE MASS. WATER RESOURCE AUTHORITY
 - Term: 1Yr
F. Carlton Siegel                                     2009
Alternate: Dana Snow, Water and Sewer Department 2009

PARKING CLERK /HEARING CLERK – Term: 1 Year
Anthony M. Sasso, Town Administrator                  2009

CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER
Rebecca L. Curran                                     2009

PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
Dana Snow                                             2009

RETIREMENT BOARD – Term: 1 Year
Anthony M. Sasso, Town Administrator                  2009

“RIGHT TO KNOW” COORDINATOR – Term: 1 Year
Barry C. Dixey – Fire Department                      2009

SEALER OF WEIGHTS & MEASURES
David C. Rodgers                                      2009

SPECIAL AUXILIARY POLICE
Patrolmen:
          James Donovan                               2009




                                  97
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS
Robert S. Ives, Jr.                                   2009

TAX COLLECTOR/TREASURER
Patricia Kelly Murray                                 2009

VETERANS’ AGENT & DIRECTOR OF VETERANS’ SERVICES
- Term: 1 Year
David C. Rodgers                               2009

VETERANS’ GRAVES OFFICER Term: 1 Year
David C. Rodgers                                      2009

WORKERS’ COMPENSATION AGENT Term: 1 Year
Massachusetts Interlocal Insurance Association        2009

TOWN ACCOUNTANT– Term 3 Years
John J. McGinn                                        2010

ARMED FORCES LIAISON– Term: 1 Year
John M. McCloskey                                     2009

CABLE TV OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE – Term: 3 Years (staggered)
Peter Lazarus                                         2010
Nancy Marrs                                           2009
Paul Rabin                                            2009
Alan G. Raymond                                       2011
Ron Olson                                             2010
Wayne Avridson                                        2010
Jerry O’Neill                                         2011
David C. Keniston - Ex Officio                        2011

CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE – Term: 3 Years
Michael Auerbach                                      2010
Thomas Gawrys                                         2009
Edward Lang                                           2009
Victor Wild                                           2009
Joe Zelloe                                            2010
John J. McGinn – Ex Officio                           2011




                               98
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


CARETAKER AND ASSISTANT, FORT BEACH – Term: 1 Year
William H. Powers                                  2009
Assistant Caretaker- Vacant                        2009

CHAPLAIN – MARBLEHEAD POLICE DEPARTMENT – Term: 1 Year
Rabbi Jonas Goldberg                            2009

SURGEON – MARBLEHEAD POLICE DEPARTMENT – Term: 1 Year
Dr. Jack Richman -                              2009

CONSERVATION COMMISSION – Term: 3 Years (staggered)
Frederick Sullivan                                               2010
Ken Fisher                                                       2010
Don Tritschler                                                   2010
Craig Smith                                                      2009
Deb Payson                                                       2009
Walter S. Haug                                                   2009
Brian LeClair                                                    2011

CONSTABLES for Postings in Town – Term: 1 Year
Cabot Dodge                                                      2009

CONSTABLES
     • for the Purpose of Serving Civil Process – Term: 1 Year
Cabot Dodge                                                      2009
Donald B. Hurwitz                                                2009
David Scott Jackson                                              2009
Paul Minsky                                                      2009

CONSTABLES
   • Shellfish
Wayne O. Attridge – Chief Constable - 3 yr. term                 2010

Term: 1 Year
Raymond H. Bates, Jr.                                            2009
David Donahue                                                    2009
R. Thomas Hamond                                                 2009
Jeffrey Flynn                                                    2009
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.                                        2009
Jack Attridge                                                    2009




                                      99
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Deborah Fadden                                     2009
Susan Hogan                                        2009
Douglas Aikman                                     2009
Douglas Percy                                      2009

COUNCIL ON AGING – Term: 3 Years
Edward Bell                                        2010
Jean Titus                                         2009
Joseph Dever                                       2011
Elizabeth Michaud                                  2011
Jeanne Louizos                                     2011
Edward F. Demski                                   2009
Linda Hall                                         2009
Rensselaer Havens                                  2010
Maureen Horan                                      2010

MARBLEHEAD DISABILITIES COMMISSION – Term: 3 Years
Carol Arnould                                      2009
Lloyd Caswell                                      2011
Katie Farrell                                      2011
Mary Levine                                        2009
Maureen McKinnon-Tucker                            2011
Andrea Mountain                                    2010
Patricia Sullivan                                  2010
(Elected Official rotating)                        2010

EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES COUNCIL – Term: 1 Year
Jason Gilliland– Marblehead Fire Department       2009

FAIR HOUSING COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Paul Crosby, Marblehead Counseling Center          2009
Sarah Drewry                                       2009
Kurt James                                         2009
Joan McIntyre                                      2009
Dirk Isbrandtsen                                   2009
Ann Cohen                                          2009
Don Davies                                         2009
Janet Robinson                                     2009
Bonnie Howard                                      2009
Gordon King                                        2009




                               100
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Mimi Hollister                                      2009
Vacant – Planning Board Representative              2009

FENCE VIEWERS – Term: 1 Year
Frederick Goddard                                   2009

FINANCE COMMITTEE – Term: 3 Years
William P. Corbett, Jr.                             2009
Moses Grader                                        2011
David E. Harris, Jr.                                2009
Steven J. Haskell                                   2011
Kathleen E. Leonardson                              2011
Patricia Moore                                      2010
Jon Jennings                                        2010
Lisa Louden                                         2010
Eric Cole                                           2009
Robert Ross – Clerk

FIREWORKS COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Timothy Green                                       2009

HARBORS & WATERS BOARD – Term: 1 Year
John Doub                                           2009
Gary P. Gregory                                     2009
Jay Michaud                                         2009
William G. Pattison                                 2009
Paul N. Williams                                    2009
Alternates:
                 Kenneth Breen                      2009
                 Eliot Rothwell                     2009
                 Paul Stevens                       2009

HISTORIAN – Term: 1 Year
Elizabeth Hunt                                      2009

HISTORICAL COMMISSION – Term: 3 Years (staggered)
William E. Conly                                    2010
Joyce L. Booth                                      2009
Raymond F. Cole, Jr.                                2009
Paul C. Johnson                                     2011




                                     101
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Nancy Graves                                       2011
Don Gardner                                        2011
Wayne T. Butler                                    2010

HOBBS MEMORIAL, SELECTMEN’S AGENT – Term: 1 Year
Paul Crosby                                        2009

LOGAN AIRPORT, PREFERENTIAL RUNWAY COMMITTEE –
Vacant                                       2009


MARBLEHEAD CULTURAL COUNCIL – Term: 3 Years
Howard Rosenkrantz                                 2011
Ava Lawrence                                       2011
Phyllis McCarthy                                   2010
Walter Horan                                       2010
Joanne Johnston                                    2010
Marshall Harris                                    2010
Sandra Broughton                                   2009
Georgia Murray                                     2009
Jean Hollister                                     2009
Carol Booth                                        2011
Betsy Morris                                       2011
Nora Falk                                          2011
Gloria Coolidge                                    2011

MARBLEHEAD FOREVER COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Fraffie Welch                                      2009
Vacant                                             2009
Vacant                                             2009
Vacant                                             2009
Vacant                                             2009

MBTA ADVISORY BOARD – Term: 1 Year
Rick Patoski                                       2009

METROPOLITAN AREA PLANNING COUNCIL – Term: 3 Years
James E. Bishop                                  2011
Rebecca L. Curran, Alternate                     2011




                            102
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISSION– Term: 1 Year
Cheryl Boots                                       2009
Susan Bragdon                                      2009
F. Reed Cutting, Jr.                               2009
James M. Patrick                                   2009
Thomas Saltsman                                    2009
Alternates:
Karl Renney                                        2009
Vacant                                             2009

OPEN SPACE COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Bradford N. Freeman                                 2009
Richard Harrison, Conservancy Representative        2009
Diane St. Laurent, Citizen at Large                 2009
Bill Woodfin, Selectmen’s representative            2009
Walt Haug, Conservation Commission Representative   2009
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner                     2009

REGISTRARS OF VOTERS– Term: 3 Years
 Robin Michaud (Town Clerk)                         2010
J. Michael Canniffe                                 2010
Joyce H. Lofmark                                    2009
Donald A. Doliber                                   2011

SCHOLARSHIP COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Audrey Brenner                                      2009
Alex Kulevich                                       2009
Sandi Shuman                                        2009
John Wall                                           2009
Nancy Graves                                        2009
Helaine Hazlett                                     2009
Perry Morton                                        2009
Karen Meyer                                         2009
Nancy Marrs                                         2009
Tom Despres                                         2009

SIGN CULLER – Term: 1 Year
Dexter Gillis                                       2009

TAXATION AID COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year




                                    103
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Patricia C. Roberts                                      2009
Pamela Foye                                              2009
Vacant                                                   2009
Patricia Kelly Murray, Treasurer                         2009

TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION – Term: 1 Year
Rabbi Jonas Goldberg                                     2009
Helaine Hazlett                                          2009
Ann Marie Hunter                                         2009
Isabel Katzman                                           2009
Harvey Michaels                                          2009
Jay Morrison                                             2009
Barbara Schneider                                        2009
Deacon John E. Whipple                                   2009
Chief Robert Picariello                                  2009
Monica Tecca                                             2009
Melissa Volk Aizanman                                    2009
Judy Luise                                               2009
Mary Levine                                              2009

TOWN PHYSICIAN – Term: 1 Year
Quadrant Health Strategies                               2009

TRAFFIC & SAFETY ADVISORY COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
John P. Doane                                            2009
Dexter C. Gillis                                         2009
F. Carlton Siegel                                        2009
Chief Barry C. Dixey – Fire Department – Ex Officio 2009
Chief Robert O. Picariello – Police Department
 – Ex Officio                                            2009

ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS – Term: 5 Years
Karen Tenenbaum                                          2010
William R. Moriarty                                      2009
David Tubridy                                            2011
Alan Lipkind                                             2013
Barbara Shefftz                                          2012
Alternates – Term: 1 year
     Paige Hintlian                                      2009
     Christopher T. Casey                                2009




                                   104
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


    Andrea Papanek                               2009
    Elizabeth M. Burke-Jacobson                  2009

FORT SEWALL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Judy Anderson                                    2009
Joyce Booth                                      2009
Brenda Arnold                                    2009
Ed Lang                                          2009
Maureen McKinnon -Tucker                         2009
Julia Bantly (OMIA Rep.)                         2009
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner                  2009
Dave Rodgers, Recreation and Parks Department    2009
Larry Sands, Glover’s Regiment                   2009
Philip F. Norcross, Citizen at Large             2009

SEAWALL STUDY COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Craig Smith (Conservation Commission)            2009
Harry C. Christensen, Jr. (Board of Selectmen)   2009
Victor A. Wild (Capital Planning Committee)      2009
Anthony M. Sasso, Town Administrator             2009
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner                  2009
Douglas W. Saal, Town Engineer, Ex-Officio       2009
Steven J. Haskell, Finance Committee             2009
Dave Rodgers (Recreation, Park and Forestry)     2009

HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
TEAM Term: 1 year
Charles P. Cerrutti, Emergency Management Director  2009
Douglas W. Saal, Town Engineer                      2009
Dana E. Snow, Superintendent, Water and Sewer Dept. 2009
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner                     2009
William E. Conly, Historical Commission             2009

BOARD OF ABBOT LIBRARY SECOND CENTURY FUND –Term: 1 Year
Thomas A. McNulty                              2009
Judith Eissner                                 2009

TREE WARDEN Term: 3 years                        2009
Tom Hamond




                                  105
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


SMART GROWTH COMMITTEE – Term 1 year
Dirk Isbrandsten                              2009
Kurt James                                    2009
Gordon King                                   2009
Michael McCloskey                             2009
David Stern                                   2009
Don Morgan                                    2009
William L. Woodfin, II                        2009
Judith R. Jacobi                              2009
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner               2009

AFFORDABLE HOUSING TRUST FUND – Term 1 year
Jackie Belf-Becker                            2009
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.                     2009
Judith R. Jacobi                              2009
James E. Nye                                  2009
William L. Woodfin, II                        2009
Ann Arada                                     2009
Vacant                                        2009
Vacant                                        2009
Vacant                                        2009




                            106
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                       Vital Records
                   Births Recorded - 162

January    10                    July        5
February   8                     August      25
March      14                    September   17
April      8                     October     12
May        9                     November    15
June       22                    December    17

                  Marriages Recorded - 95

January    3                     July        13
February   2                     August      12
March      8                     September   24
April      4                     October     7
May        6                     November    5
June       8                     December    3

                   Deaths Recorded - 188

January    20                    July        24
February   16                    August      11
March      15                    September   19
April      19                    October     20
May        11                    November    9
June       11                    December    13




                           107
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                      Causes of Death 2008 –


Acute Myocardial Infarction                        2
Acute Respiratory Arrest                           33
Acute Respiratory Insufficiency                    1
Alzheimer’s Dementia                               2
Anaplastic Oligoastrocytoma                        1
Aspiration                                         1
Atherosclerotic Heart Disease                      14
Blunt Head Trauma                                  1

Carcinomas:
Bladder Cancer                                     1
Breast                                             2
Cholangio Carcinoma                                1
Colon                                              1
Gastril Cancer                                     1
Malignant Melonoma                                 1
Metastatic Anal Squamous Cell Carcinoma            1
Metastatic Esophageal                              1
Metastatic Liver Disease                           1
Metastatic Small Cell Carcinoma of Lung            8
Metastatic Squamous Cell Cancer, Unknown Primary   1
Ovarian                                            1
Pancreatic                                         3
Prostate                                           2
Recurring Maxillary sinus Cancer                   1
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Pharnyx                 1

Cardiac Arrest                                     25
Cardiovascular Collapse                            1
Cerebral Infarction                                2
Cerebral Vascular Accident                         2
Cholangitis                                        1
Congestive Heart Failure                           8
COPD                                               1
Coronary Artery Disease                            2
Deep Vein Thrombosis                               1
End Stage Dementia                                 3




                                    108
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Failure to Thrive                             12
Grand Mal Seizure Disorder                    1
Gunshot Wound of Head                         1
Heart Attack                                  1
Hemorrhagic Shock                             1
Influenza B                                   1
Intracerebral Hemorrhage                      2
Preterm Premature Rupture of Membranes        1
Primary Ventricular Fibrillation              2
Pneumonia                                     5
Probable Myocardial Infarction                1
Probable Urosepsis                            1
Renal Failure                                 5
Respiratory/Cardiac Failure                   1
Respiratory Distress                          1
Respiratory Failure                           9
Sepsis                                        4
Septic Shock                                  3
Stroke                                        3
Subdural Hematoma                             2
Terminal Debility                             1
UCI Bleed                                     1
Urosepsis                                     1




                                   109
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                       ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY

This past year has been one of transformation for the trustees of the Abbot library.
Using the appropriation ($281,000) that was approved by the voters, the following
projects and repairs have been completed: new fuel-efficient computerized modular
boilers installed, air conditioning compressor replaced and system-wide preventive
maintenance procedures implemented, and exterior building painting and carpentry
work. Masonry and waterproofing work is scheduled to begin in the spring.

Patricia J. Rogers, former Director of the Osterville Village Library, was elected as
the new Abbot Library Director, replacing Bonnie Strong, who retired after thirteen
years of guiding the library through changing times. Also retiring this year after
many years of service, was Sudha Newman.

Staying abreast of innovative library materials and the needs of Marblehead
residents, we introduced two new types of audiobooks, Playaways and
Downloadables. Playaways, about the size of a pack of cards that require a headset
and battery, come preloaded with an entire audiobook, and is capable of storing up
to 80 hours of audio. Downloadables are audiobooks that can be downloaded from
the internet to a home computer or MP3 player.

We have also installed additional computer and printer stations in the library,
improved our wireless network, and established a committee to review and make
needed improvements to our web site, abbotlibrary.org.

The Children’s Room will be undergoing some major improvements this year,
thanks to funding from the Killam Trust. And the Second Century Fund made its
annual gift to the library for the purchase of materials not funded under the Town
budget materials appropriation.

With funding provided by the Shattuck Fund, a new slat wall book display and
flood lights were installed at the front entrance of the library, and the volunteer
room was renovated. The slat wall has been a welcome addition to our means of
displaying newly acquired materials.

Friends of the Abbot Public Library and the Driftwood Garden Club announced a
joint landscaping and lighting project designed to help beautify the grounds of the
library. The Friends also agreed to fund the installation of a hand railing on the
Maverick Street side walkway. Planning for the projects got underway this past year
and work is scheduled to begin in the spring.




                                        110
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



The Trustees are pleased with efforts of the staff to: provide the best possible
service to library patrons, participate in initiatives to improve the library, develop
adult and children’s programs. Programs for the enrichment and enjoyment of
Library patrons of all ages include evening lectures, internet classes, children’s
story hours, book discussion groups, and art exhibits, among many others.

Respectfully submitted,
Phil Sweeney, Chairperson
Patricia J. Rogers, Director


ABBOT LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Philip W. Sweeney, Jr., Chair                               Term expires 2010
Peggy Geist Blass, Vice-Chair & Secretary                   Term expires 2009
Jean Y. Howe                                                Term expires 2011
Susan L. Indresano                                          Term expires 2009
Robin A. Michaud                                            Term expires 2011
Maura K. Murnane                                            Term expires 2009


ABBOT LIBRARY STAFF

Patricia J. Rogers                                          Director
Ann E. Connolly                                             Assistant Director
Christine Evans                                             Technical Services
                                                                  Librarian
Marcia Cannon                                               Children’s Librarian
Mary Farrell                                                Youth Librarian
Jonathan Randolph                                           Adult Librarian
Mary Starrett                                               Senior Clerk
Elena Minayev                                               Para-Professional
Catherine Jamieson                                          Library Coordinator/
                                                                  Circulation
Kathleen Cavolina, Part-Time                                Program and Volunteer
                                                                  Coordinator
Linda Levy                                                  Library Technician
Anne Thornton                                               Library Tech. Assistant
Carole Brindamour, Part-Time                                Sr. Library Assistant




                                        111
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Janet Smith, Part-Time                    Library Tech. Assistant
Ellen Goldstrom, Part-Time                Sr. Library Assistant
Joan Kessel, Temp. Part-Time              Library Assistant
Virginia Symmes, Temp. Part-Time          Library Assistant
Johanna Umana, Temp. Part-Time            Library Assistant


CUSTODIANS

Richard Leahy                             Head Custodian


PAGES

Kira Goldman
Liudmila Muravyeva
Henry Phu
Andrew Kim
Cassandra Sprague
Marilyn Doran




                                   112
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                         BOARD OF ASSESSORS

The Board of Assessors functions according to State mandated legislation. The
principal duty of the Board is to determine the “fair cash value” of all real and
personal property within the Town of Marblehead on an annual basis.

The assessing staff, under the supervision and review of the Board of Assessors
performs all duties. Our primary goal is to ensure fair and equitable assessments,
administer the statutory exemptions available to the elderly, blind, disabled, and
veterans. Additionally, the department is responsible for issuing motor vehicle
excise based upon the Registry of Motor Vehicles values provide to the assessors
office. The assessors also administer boat excise tax based upon the State formula
and after receiving the required information from the boat owner via the return of
form 2BE, which must be filed annually at the assessor’s office.

Under the quarterly tax billing procedure, the filing deadline for abatements is
February 1, (third quarter tax bill due date). The filing deadline for statutory
exemptions according to Massachusetts General Law is three months from the
mailing of the third quarter tax bill. Tax law and guidelines for exemptions are
constantly changing. We urge all taxpayers who may have questions regarding
abatements or exemption to contact the Assessors Office.

Douglas E. Percy was appointed in a joint meeting of the Board of Selectmen and
the Board of Assessor’s to finish the remaining term of longtime board member
Richard O. Reiss upon his retirement in June 2008.

Assessments for the average single family dwelling decreased 4.6% to $$698,000,
and the median single family assessment decreased 4.1% to $519,000. The average
tax bill increased 2.8% to $6,275, and the median single family tax bill increased
3.4% to $4,665. The classification hearing held on November 17, 2008, resulted in
a single tax rate of $8.99 per thousand of value.

The Board of Assessor’s granted a total of $136,690 of statutory exemptions to 225
qualified seniors, veterans, blind applicants and senior work off volunteers.

The following is the breakdown of value by class and the respective tax levy as well
as the pertinent data for motor vehicle and boat excise tax.

CLASS                              VALUATION                  TAX LEVY
Residential        95.1015%        $5,088,265,598             $45,743,507.73




                                       113
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Commercial        3.7011%           $198,014,716             $1,780,152.30
Industrial        0.3765%           $18,573,700              $181,110.74
Personal Property 0.8173%           $34,195,980              $393,078.31

TOTAL             100%              $5,350,150,064           $48,097,849.08


                                    EXCISE TAX

MOTOR VEHICLE              #BILLS                    TAX ASSESSED

2007 EXCISE                20,823                    $2,961,934.71

BOAT EXCISE                2345                      $159,643


Respectfully Submitted,

Board of Assessors:                     Office Staff:
John P. Kelley, Chair                   Virginia T. Palmer, Senior Clerk
Anne N. McCarthy, Secretary             Leslie T. George, MAA, Sp. Clerk
Douglas E. Percy
Michael A. Tumulty, MAA, Asst. Assessor




                                       114
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                           BOARD OF HEALTH

The Marblehead Board of Health met in formal session on fourteen (14) occasions
including the annual Town Meeting. Meetings were properly and duly posted with
the Town Clerk. BOH Members and staff also attend numerous meetings pertaining
to finance, regionalization, communicable disease, bio-terrorism, tobacco control,
grant application, sanitation code updates, environmental issues, continuing
education, emergency preparedness, as well as other public health related issues of
importance to the Town.
Dr. David Becker did not seek re-election in May. We all wish Dr. Becker the best
and thank him for his years of dedicated service to the Town of Marblehead. In a
unique situation Dr. Todd Belf-Becker, David’s son, ran and was elected to the
Board carrying forward the family tradition of dedicated community service.

                    MARBLEHEAD.ORG WEBSITE
News and notifications concerning public health, trash and recycling are posted in
timely fashion. This very successful media tool allows the posting of links to sites
relating to public health, emergency planning, solid waste and beach water quality.
A subscription service on Marblehead.org allows people to sign up for email alerts
regarding solid waste, recycling, public health emergencies, as well as other
important Town information.

       REPORTED* COMMUNICABLE DISEASES – 2008
Campylobacter                                7
Giardia                                      2
Hepatitis A                                  2
Hepatitis C-Chronic                          2
Invasive Group A Streptococcus               1
Invasive Group B Streptococcus               1
Invasive pneumococcal disease                1
Pertussis                                    2
Salmonellosis                                3
Shigellosis                                  1


As with all communicable disease reports an extensive follow-up investigation is
conducted to determine the source and possible cause of the illness. All food-borne




                                       115
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


illness (Campylobacter, Giardia, Hepatitis A, Salmonella) require public health
response.

*The Board of Health reminds everyone that good, frequent hand washing is
the first line of defense in preventing the spread of a lot of illnesses. Always
wash your hands after using the bathroom, before preparing foods, and
between foods to be cooked and foods to be eaten raw. It should be noted that
these are reported cases versus occurrences.




                                     116
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                      VACCINE DISTRIBUTION – 2008

VACCINE                                                   DOSES

Hepatitis B-Pedi                                           40

Diphtheria, Tetanus, Acellular Pertussis (DtaP)           210

Inactivated Polio (1PV)                                   130

Pediarix (DtaP, Hep B, IPV)                               210

Haemophilus Influenza Type b (HIB)                        305

Pneumococcal Conjugate (PCV-7)                            300

Measles, Mumps, and Rubella (MMR)                         140

Menactra (MCV4)                                           235

Tetanus, Reduced Diphtheria, Acellular Pertussis (Tdap)   220

Tetanus and Diphtheria (Adult)                             90

Pneumococcal Polysaccharide (PPV-23Pneumonia)             130

Hepatitis A Pedi                                          240

Rotavirus                                                 160

Quadrivalent Human Papillomavirus (HPV)                    80

Influenza                                                 490

Pre-filled Pedi Flu                                        13

Flumist                                                    60




                                       117
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


On June 23, 2008 the MDPH transitioned to the Vaccine Management Business
Improvement Project (VMBIP), a national centralized vaccine ordering and
distribution system. All providers, including the Board of Health, now fax their
vaccine orders to the MDPH. MDPH collaborates with the CDC to review these
orders and forwards the request to the distributor who ships the vaccine directly to
the provider. This method of distribution should ensure national equality in the
supply of vaccines.

                       2008 PUBLIC FLU CLINICS
The Marblehead Board of Health held 3 major public clinics and the Public Health
Nurse made 18 home visits to immunize home bound patients. The Marblehead
Board of Health administered 1507 flu shots this year. 663 flu shots were given to
residents age 65 or older. All BOH clinics are open to anyone age 18 years of age
and older.

                   BLOOD PRESSURE SCREENING
BP monitoring is conducted Monday through Friday from 8:00 A.M. to 12:00 noon
at the Board of Health office by appointment only. Additionally the Public Health
Nurse is at the Marblehead COA on most Thursday’s of each month between 11:00
AM-12:00 noon to conduct a blood pressure clinic.

NORTH SHORE-CAPE ANN EMERGENCY PREPARADNESS
                  COALITION
The North Shore-Cape Ann Emergency Preparedness Coalition continues to work to
prepare their communities to respond to public health threats and emergencies,
which include terrorism and outbreaks of infectious diseases as well as emergencies
caused by a force of nature. This coalition established in 2004, is a sub-coalition
within Region 3 of the Massachusetts Department of Public Health regional Public
Emergency Preparedness Coalitions and meets monthly. The coalition receives
funding from a grant provided by CDC and is mandated to attain certain standards
in emergency preparedness. The North Shore-Cape Ann Emergency Preparedness
Coalition has established a website with information for the public and links to
other sites that can provide valuable information to our residents. To date, the Board
of Health has provided MDPH with 24/7 contact information, submitted a
Continuity of Operations Plan, participated in numerous drills, trainings and
conferences, have key personnel trained in NIMS (National Incident Management
System) and ICS (Incident Control System), updated the All-Hazards Plan, and




                                        118
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


have submitted a template of our Special Populations Plan. In 2008 the coalition
began the process of a multi-year Training and Exercise Plan. This plan will take us
from learning about a specific scenario to a full blown disaster drill incorporating all
hazards plans and testing of the established infrastructure.
The coalition is continuing the process of increasing our database of medical and
non-medical volunteers through our website and is offering training opportunities
for these volunteers. In the event of an infectious disease epidemic or pandemic, or
a natural disaster volunteers will be greatly needed to assist in mass clinics, shelters
or wherever needed. Volunteers can register on-line and/or by calling the
Marblehead Board of Health. We urge residents to become volunteers. Please log on
to: www.nscalert.org or call the BOH at 781 631-0212 to register as a volunteer and
to learn more about our coalition.

                            INSPECTIONAL SERVICES
All food service and retail food establishments are required, by the MDPH, to be
inspected bi-annually. Additionally, walk-through inspections (a less formal visual
procedure for those establishments the Board has received complaints about, that
are making physical changes, or for any type of problem that may arise during the
year) are conducted at the Board of Health’s discretion.

Beach samples are taken on a weekly basis from May through September. Test
results were consistently within beach testing standards set forth under 105 CMR
Sect. 445.000 throughout the summer for each of the five sites. Public and
semipublic pools are monitored for mandatory on site quality control and proper
management as required by MA 105 CMR 435.000 Minimum Standards for
Swimming Pools.

         ESTABLISHMENTS REGULARLY INSPECTED
Nursing Homes                                  2
Food Service Establishments                    61
Retail Food Service Establishments             36
Private Clubs                                  10
School Cafeterias                              4
Schools with Satellite Programs                7
Private Schools                                1
Carnivals W/3 Mobile Service Units             2
Ice Cream Trucks/Boat                          2
Mobile Food Service Trucks                     0




                                         119
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Hot Dog Push Carts                             1
Slush Push carts and Yogurt Push Carts         1
Year Round Swimming Pools                      2
Seasonal Swimming Pools                        5
Arts Festival Food Fair                        2
Bakeries                                       2
Caterers                                       3
One Day Permits                                3
New Business/Change of Ownership               4
Restaurant Inspections                         156
Re-Inspection Compliance                       50
Food Borne Illness Investigation               0
Fire Incidents Requiring Inspection            0
Day Camp Inspections                           15

INSPECTIONS REQUIRED

Water, Beach, Pool, Drain & Stream Samples           85
Asbestos Inquiry, Complaints/Removal Of              6

COMPLAINTS

Food and Retail Service Complaints             7
General Nuisance                               9
Air, Noise, and Odor Complaints                7
Housing Complaints                             6
Lead Paint Tests                               2
Lead Paint Follow-Up                           2
Exterior Sanding                               5
Radon Gas Inquiry                              0
Oil Spill Incidents                            2
Red Tide Notifications                         3
Court Subpoena                                 1
Mold                                           2




                                         120
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


       NORTH SHORE TOBACCO CONTROL PROGRAM

In accordance with the North Shore Area Boards of Health Collaborative
grant requirements two compliance checks were conducted in FY08. The
outcomes of these checks were as follows:

Date           No. of Establishments Checked:                   Rate Achieved

3-17-08            12 Checked with one violation                      92% rate
11-12-08           12 Checked with one sale                           91% rate

There were two fines assessed for a total of $200.00

In addition to the compliance checks, two educational visits occurred at each
permitted establishment. The North Shore Tobacco Control Program
provides merchants with all required signage, checks permits and informs
them of training opportunities. In addition this year the Under 27 visibility
grant was awarded and counter marketing promotional materials were
distributed to merchant locations.

Merchant training is conducted quarterly and then as needed or as requested
throughout the year. These trainings are open to all merchants and staff. Moreover,
when there is a request we will tailor trainings for any particular merchant and
conduct them exclusively for the staff or their establishments.

                      COMMUNITY FACT SHEET
Cigarette Smoking

An estimated 1,441 smokers live in Marblehead (9.3% of adults, age 18+).
The smoking rate for adults in Marblehead is 9.3%. This rate is 48 percent lower
than the overall rate for Massachusetts (9.3% in Marblehead compared to 18.1%
statewide).
The rate of smoking during pregnancy in Marblehead is 86 percent lower than for
the overall state of Massachusetts (1.1% in Marblehead vs. 7.9% statewide).

Health Effects of Smoking




                                       121
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Mortality from lung cancer is 13 percent lower among males in Marblehead
compared to the state of Massachusetts.
Mortality from lung cancer is not significantly different among females in
Marblehead compared to the state of Massachusetts.
The rate of hospitalizations for lung cancer is not significantly different among
females in Marblehead compared to the state of Massachusetts.
The rate of hospitalizations for lung cancer is 14 percent lower among males in
Marblehead compared to the state of Massachusetts.

Illegal Tobacco Sales to Minors

The rate of illegal sales to minors (those under age 18) is 87 percent higher in
Marblehead (19.2%) compared to the state of Massachusetts (10.3%) based on data
from FY 2007.

Try-TO-STOP Quitline

Health care providers referred 5 smokers living in Marblehead to the QuitWorks
program for telephone counseling. In addition, 2.0 people from Marblehead called
the Try-TO-STOP quitline between FY 2004 to 2007 for help to quit smoking.

Mass Health Tobacco Cessation Benefit

The number of Mass Health members living in Marblehead who used the tobacco
cessation benefit (pharmacotherapy) was 29 in FY 2007. An estimated 17.6% of
Mass Health smokers who live in Marblehead used the cessation benefit compared
to 10.3% statewide.

                                   HAWC
                 Help for Abused Women and Their Children
                      Services for Marblehead FY 2008

Since 1978, HAWC (Help for Abused Women and their Children) has been the only
agency providing comprehensive domestic violence prevention and services to
adults and their children in 23 North Shore cities and towns from Saugus to
Gloucester.

Based in Salem with outreach offices in Gloucester, Ipswich, Beverly and Lynn,
HAWC’s free domestic violence services include emergency shelter, 24-hour




                                      122
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


hotline, advocacy in courts and health care settings, support groups, counseling, and
education in schools throughout the North Shore.

Since HAWC began in 1978, the agency has grown tremendously both in the
number of victims served and the number of programs we offer. With the assistance
of approximately 200 volunteers, HAWC provided services to 7,287 victims of
violence, and 4,406 children and adolescence in the school-based program in fiscal
year 2008. All of HAWC’s services are provided free of charge.

Of the clients served by HAWC in FY 2008, 190 were from Marblehead:

    •    Our hotline received 40 calls from residents of Marblehead. The hotline
         is staffed by trained volunteers who provide information, advice, referral
         and assistance securing shelter. Many victims calling are in crisis and need
         immediate help and support. HAWC staff is available 24 hours a day to
         support and assist the volunteers and to answer the hotline when there are
         open shifts.

    •    Fifty eight residents of Marblehead received help and support from
         HAWC in the form of direct services which include individual advocacy
         and counseling, legal or medical advocacy or participation in one of our
         nine weekly support groups.

    •    92 children and adolescents were educated about bullying and teasing and
         dating violence. Research has shown that 60% of battered women report
         that their first instance of battering occurred in a teenage dating
         relationship. HAWC’s Youth Outreach Program seeks to educate teens
         before they establish patterns of unhealthy relationships that can last a
         lifetime.

HAWC’s educators are always available to conduct workshops and training sessions
on the issue of domestic violence for the community at large. We welcome the
opportunity to speak at community groups, churches, hospitals, civic organizations
or any group that is interested in learning about domestic violence. In FY2008 we
educated 3,456 individuals in the community about domestic violence.

        MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES FISCAL YEAR 2008

Now in its 39th year, the Marblehead Counseling Center (MCC) has collaborated
with the Board of Health to provide the Town counseling, education and community




                                        123
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


service. These have afforded people the opportunity to work with highly trained
professionals on personal or community issues and concerns. Therapy is provided
to any resident or town worker regardless of his/her ability to pay a fee. Over and
above the $71,728 provided by the Health Department, MCC provided $40,000 of
free (unreimbursed) counseling services.

During fiscal year 2008, MCC provided direct therapy to over 429 different
individuals with 4,198 hours offered for individual, couple, family and group
counseling. Therapists continued to help seniors in their homes who, because of
infirmities, could not make it to traditional services. Another 120 hours were spent
in outreach to teens and adults of our community in an effort to address their
specific problems. In addition, the Center ran socialization skills groups for all the
fifth graders at the Charter School.

Sometimes, our neighbors hit hard financial times and families struggle just to
survive. MCC has become the place that people can get connected with resources
that will help them, whether it is paying overdue bills, assistance with housing, or
connections to medical and dental treatment. Throughout the year a large number
of town residents have received these social services from MCC’s social service
aides.

The Counseling Center has also continued to encourage the development of healthy
families in Marblehead. This year the Center joined with TeamUp to present a series
of renowned speakers and seven small workshops for parents on the topics of
limiting setting/discipline and tools to help children’s learning.

The Marblehead Counseling Center has always had a very strong commitment to
improving the community of which it is a part. In fiscal year 2008, the organization
gave over 400 hours as a participant in many community committees and task
forces. Another part of this commitment is providing community mediation, which
empowers persons to settle differences and disputes in a productive manner that
avoids court intervention.

MCC will remain a vital part of our community and provide counseling, social
work, educational and community services for years to come.

                   ORGANIC PEST MANAGEMENT
The Board of Health promulgated Organic Pest Management Regulations under the
authority granted under M.G.L. Chapter III, Section 31 providing that Boards of




                                        124
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Health may make reasonable health regulations and under the authority granted to
the Marblehead Board of Health under MA G.L. Chapter III, Section 122 to make
regulations for the public health and safety, relative nuisances and causes of
sickness.

The Board of Health found that it is in the best interest of public health to eliminate
the use of toxic pesticides on Town owned land, ponds, and waterways; to
encourage the reduction and elimination of the use of toxic pesticides on private
property; and to introduce and promote natural, organic cultural and management
practices to prevent and, when necessary, control pest problems on Town owned
land.

Copies of the Organic Pest Management Regulations are available in the Board of
Health office at the Mary Alley Municipal Building at 7 Widger Road.

The Board of Health encourages residents to become educated in the dangers of
pesticide use and to eliminate the use of toxic pesticides and herbicides on private
property for the safety and well-being of your own families, your pets, your
neighbors, and our environment.

                   SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
It is a constant challenge to address solid waste issues that face the town. It is a
difficult task to address the environmental and increasing cost controls placed on the
town by state and federal agencies. It is time that we refocus and substantially
decrease the amount of waste we generate and increase the amount of recycling we
separate from that waste.
     • Marblehead generated 9855 tons of trash in 2008 a decrease of 509 tons.
     • Marblehead recycled a total of 2,754.6 tons of paper, commingled
          material, cardboard, metal, and Swap Shed material out of the waste stream
          realizing diversion savings of $283,222.49 the collapse of the paper
          market contributed to this lower number.
     • 3,6850 gallons of waste oil was collected for processing. Includes Town
          Garages
     • 1,122 Televisions and 840 Computer Monitors were recycled.
     • Two Household Hazardous Waste Days were conducted jointly with the
          Town of Swampscott and collected materials from over 300 households.
     • Document Shredding /Recycling held every other HHW Day.




                                         125
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                       RECYCLING COMMITTEE
The Recycling Committee is a valuable volunteer resource for the Town. The
weekly “Recycling Tips” article in the Reporter takes time and commitment and is
greatly appreciated and well read. Their staffing of a booth at the Farmers Market
selling compost and recycling bins is to be commended. The Committee has taken a
very keen interest in current and future trends and local adherence to recycling in
Marblehead. The Board looks forward to utilizing this group of dedicated residents
as we address the solid waste and recycling challenges and opportunities facing the
Town.

         COMPOSTING AND YARD WASTE DISPOSAL
    2008 organic matter, vegetation, brush, wood waste generation and processing
    figures:
         • Composted material: 18,770 cubic yards = 3128.34 tons.
         • Spring/summer leaves & grass: 12,440 cubic yards = 2,073.34 tons.
         • Woodchips (Town Tree Department): 4,800 cubic yards = 800 tons.
         • Brush: 8,251 cubic yards = 1375.17 tons.

In 2005 the Town submitted an extensive Yard Waste Management Plan to MA
DEP in anticipation of post closure use of the site once the Landfill Remediation is
complete.

The Town continues to work with Recreation and Parks as well as Agresource Inc.
in an effort to formulate a compost material suitable for garden and lawn
construction as well as large scale restoration projects. The Town realized a small
amount of revenue from this material and will be using it for restoration purposes in
areas affected by the landfill remediation project.

                   OLD LANDFILL REMEDIATION
A comprehensive description of the design and construction phases along with
timely opportunities was presented to the annual town meeting in May 2007. A
subsequent capital exclusion override for $1,010,000 was voted positively by the
Town. Additional environmental testing has been requested by the MA DEP for
some abutting properties as well the need to address infrastructure relocation with
other Town Departments and Commissions is on going . Basic conceptual design
issues are still being addressed at this time. The Board of Health expects to be
before the annual 2010 Town Meeting to present construction plans for the project.




                                        126
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                                 SWAP SHED
The Swap Shed at the Transfer Station continues to be very popular and more
importantly a very useful means of re-using many different types of household
materials and appliances. The staff of hearty volunteers that operate, organize, and
perform crowd control every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday are to be
commended. The Board wishes to recognize these volunteers and express their
appreciation for their efforts to reduce solid waste tonnage.

In closing, the Board of Health commends its office, transfer station staff for their
adaptability to constant change, dedication, and devotion to their positions and the
Town. As Director of this Department I am very appreciative of the staff in both the
Public Health and Waste Division under the jurisdiction of the Board of Health.
These are the people that are here working in the rain, bitter cold, snow, heat,
handling the complaints, working extra unpaid hours to provide the finest municipal
service they can. The Board wishes to thank other Town Departments for assistance
and cooperation in the form of manpower, equipment, and other resources. Bi-
monthly administrative staff meetings with the Town Administrator are important
and appreciated from a support and cooperative effort standpoint. The Board also
thanks Town Planner Rebecca Curran, she has assisted the Health Dept. in applying
for and administering worthwhile grants of money, equipment, technical assistance,
and Chapter 30B Procurement issues. The Board of Health and the Town are
fortunate to have a willing and able group of volunteers assisting in all aspects of
our operation. The Board of Health thanks all those volunteers.




                                        127
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


HEALTH OFFICE STAFF
Rochelle Bartlett-Ayer, RN, Public Health Nurse
Roberta Cody, Health Inspector
Joan Sherman, Senior Clerk

TRANSFER STATION STAFF
Peter Haskell, Leader Heavy Equipment Operator
Jose’ Fagundes, Heavy Equipment Operator
Michael Louizos, Heavy Equipment Operator
Annette Louizos, Part-time Clerk
Kay Monahan, Special Clerk
Karen Patch, Part-time Clerk



Respectfully Submitted,
Carl D. Goodman, B.A., J.D., Chairman
Helaine R. Hazlett, B.S.
Todd Belf-Becker, D.M.D.

Wayne O. Attridge
Director of Public Health




                                      128
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


BUILDING COMMISSIONER & INSPECTIONAL SERVICES

The Inspectional Services Department ensures public safety, health and welfare by
regulating construction through Federal, State and Local Codes and By-Laws.

In 2008 a total of 599 Building permits were issued including those for 5 new single
family dwellings, of which 4 involved the demolition of existing buildings, and 1 new
commercial building. Work continued on the Marblehead Highlands 40B. Based on
the estimated costs of construction of $25,009,729 this activity produced
$365,281,000 for the General Fund.

Electrical, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting permits generated an additional $26,283 in
inspectional fees for the General Fund.

The Department also issued 167 Roofing permits, 33 Sign permits and 12 Stove
permits, which produced an additional $6480 for the General Fund.

The Building Department, in conjunction with the Fire Prevention Office, conducted
71 annual inspections of public and private schools, churches and temples, day care
centers, food service establishments, nursing homes, and private clubs. Fees for
annual inspections produced $4260 for the General Fund.

All of us in the department would like to express appreciation to Peter Dorney for his
fine service to the Public Building department, and wish him all the best at the Water
Department. We welcome Ed Medeiros to our staff in his place.

Estimated Cost of Construction activity for the past decade in millions of dollars
 1999 2000 2001 2001 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
 17.8 23.1 22.6 24.2 23.4 39.2 43.4 33.3                            38.1 25.1


Respectfully submitted;

Robert S. Ives, Jr., Building Commissioner
Chris G. Butler, Local Inspector
William R. Doane, Local Inspector
Ronald J. Marks, Wire Inspector
Eric F. S. Chisholm, Assistant Wire Inspector




                                         129
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Domingos Furtado, Plumbing & Gas Inspector
Peter McCarriston, Assistant Plumbing & Gas Inspector
Mary A. Allain, Special Clerk
Ellen Vaughn, Data Entry Clerk
Ed Medeiros, Public Buildings
Steve Ware, Public Buildings
Anne, Remmington, COA volunteer




                                      130
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


       CABLE TELEVISION OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE
The Cable Television Oversight Committee began negotiations with Verizon in
2008 with the goal of bringing competitive Cable Television service to Marblehead.
The Committee also moved to set up a non-profit Access Corporation to oversee the
operation and programming of the local channel.

The goals of the CTOC are to have Comcast and Verizon operating cable television
in the Town, and have a new CTOC to oversee cable operations, assure license
compliance, and engage in future negotiations with both cable providers, and to
have a Board of Directors oversee the operation of the studio. To that end By-Laws
have been written and Articles of Incorporation have been drafted so that the studio
will be independent of either company, and that local programming operations
remain strong and funding be continuous. Work on these processes has occupied the
Committee in 2008, with a projected timetable of completion in 2009.

Respectfully submitted.

Paul Rabin, Chair
Nancy Marrs, Secretary
Wayne Avridson
David Keniston
Peter Lazarus
Ron Olson
Jerry O’Neill
Alan Raymond




                                       131
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                     CEMETERY DEPARTMENT

The Marblehead Cemetery Department respectfully submits our Annual Report for
the Calendar year ending December 31, 2008.

The Board of Commissioners has three members who are elected to three-year,
staggered terms. The Commission sets policy, establishes regulations and oversees
the cemetery budget. The Cemetery Department is administered by a
Superintendent appointed by the Commissioners, who has jurisdiction over all
Town Cemeteries.

The Cemetery Department is responsible for the complete maintenance of
Waterside Cemetery, as well as, Harbor View Cemetery. The Recreation and Parks
Department is responsible for the cutting and trimming of the grass at Old Burial
Hill, Harris Street, and Green Street Cemeteries. The Cemetery Department takes
care of any other maintenance that is needed at these historic cemeteries.

For the fiscal year 2008 the sum of $280,529.96 was expended on salaries and
wages. The sum of $19,365.16 was spent on maintenance expenses. To defray the
cost of these expenditures the sum of $38,800.00 came from the Perpetual Care
Fund and $16,434.00 from the Sale of Lots Fund.

The Cemetery Department turned over to the Town Treasurer for the General Fund
the sum of $ 34,373.34 received from charges and fees in fiscal 2008:

      Grave Fees                                              $ 54,015.00
      Chapel Fees                                                  900.00
      Foundation and Inscriptions Fees                           9,408.34
      Annual Care Receipts                                           0.00
      Misc. & Vault Fees                                            50.00
                                                              $ 34,373.34


This Department keeps abreast with a survey of Commonwealth Communities and
Private Cemeteries as to the fees that are charged and then makes adjustments in
fees accordingly.

The sum of $22,400.00 was received from the sale of lots and the sum of
$23,850.00 was received from bequests to the Perpetual Care Fund. The sum of
$40.00 was received from bequests to the Eternal Flame Fund.




                                      132
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


There were no Gravestone Rubbing Permits issued this year. These permits cost
$10.00 and are used only at the Old Burial Hill. The total income receipts for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 2008 was $ 112,163.34.

The total number of interments for the Calendar year was 121 of which 61 were
cremations.

The Cemetery Department would like to thank the Carl Siegel for his generous
donation of the arch at the entrance of the main gate, in memory of his wife Harriet
Siegel. Also thank you to Bob Pappas for erecting the arch.

The Department would also like to thank the Highway, Park & Rec, Tree, Water &
Sewer, and Light for their help in getting the cemeteries ready for Memorial Day
and during the year.

During the year 2008, the Department employed Frank James as mechanic, Bret
Gifford as heavy equipment operator, William Stanton and Brian Ware as laborers,
and Catherine Kobialka as office manager. Our Cemetery Board of Commissioners
consisted of, Dexter C. Gillis as Chairman, Rose A. McCarthy as clerk, and
Richard F. Colletti.


Respectfully submitted
William H. James
Superintendent




                                       133
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                    CONSERVATION COMMISSION

This report is for Calendar Year 2008. The purpose of the Marblehead Conservation
Commission is twofold. First, to implement the safeguards specified in the state
Wetlands Protection Act, the state Stormwater Management Policy and the
Marblehead Wetlands Protection Bylaw in order to help preserve and protect the
wetlands and water resources in our Town. Second, to maintain and protect the
conservation lands held in trust for all residents of our Town. Of the six
communities adjacent to Salem Sound, Marblehead and Salem have the highest
density of population, with corresponding pressures on our open space and water
resources. The quality of life in Marblehead and its attractiveness is in part
dependent on these resources and we urge all Marblehead residents to join in our
efforts to preserve and protect them.

The Commission held regular meetings and public hearings throughout the year
2008. We continued to assist residents in their construction projects while guiding
them in their endeavors to protect the wetland resources potentially affected by their
construction. A major ongoing effort of the Commission is the management and
mitigation of pollution caused by storm water runoff. This polluting runoff comes
from streets, parking lots, driveways and lawns. Lawn chemicals, oil and coolant
leaks from vehicles, animal waste, paints disposed of in catch basins (storms drains
in our streets) - all these pollutants/nutrients eventually end up in our streams and
ocean. The effort to mitigate this pollution will require a long term change in the
thinking and actions on the part of the general public and in our approach to public
infrastructure. The Marblehead Water & Sewer Department already follows the
guidelines established by the state to mitigate stormwater pollution runoff into our
ocean waters.

The Commission initiated a study program during 2007 to evaluate the conditions of
our ponds. They are all in the process of filling in with vegetation. This is a natural
process, especially with shallow ponds, and is caused or accelerated, in part, by the
inflow of chemicals and fertilizers from abutting lawns and storm water runoff.
Regrettably, due to unfortunate interferences we were not able to continue to pursue
this study program in 2008 and lost an invaluable opportunity to have the science
department of Salem College assist us. There are no plans at this time to initiate
another program.

Marblehead has exhausted (read developed) more than 95% of its buildable land.
With all the roofs, driveways, streets, parking areas and other impervious surfaces
we have built ourselves into one huge catch basin. This has exacerbated our drain




                                         134
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


problems. All those little open fields, land depressions and pocket wetlands where
storm water used to be able to collect and gently seep into the ground are, for the
most part, gone.

Again this year, we wish to express our gratitude to the Marblehead Conservancy
for its continuing efforts to restore walking paths in our conservation lands and for
its ongoing program to remove invasive plant species, which are strangling native
vegetation in the conservation lands. Since your Conservation Commission has no
budget or staff for managing the conservation lands, the ongoing efforts of the
Conservancy to preserve and protect these very valuable resources are crucial to the
health of these areas.

Please visit us on the Town web site, www.marblehead.org, to find information on
our meeting schedules, help with filing permit applications and accessing the
minutes of our meetings.


Respectfully submitted,
Marblehead Conservation Commission

Walter Haug, Chairman
Deborah Payson, Member
Frederick Sullivan, Member
Donald Tritschler, Member
Craig A. Smith, Member
Brian LeClair, Member
Ken Fisher, Member




                                        135
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                           COUNCIL ON AGING

The Council on Aging respectfully submits its annual report for the year ending
December 31, 2008.

The COA initiated “Wisdom Works”, a four week employment program with the
assistance of Keystone Associates for individuals age 55 or more. The program
consisted of self assessment, resume writing, interviewing skills and networking.
With a Shattuck Fund grant, the COA refurbished the lobby of the Community
Center with new furniture and, with the financial assistance of the Friends of the
COA, added new carpeting. In addition, along with the Recreation, Parks and
Forestry Dept, the COA received a Shattuck Fund grant to renovate the woodshop at
the Community Center and turn it into a fitness room with exercise equipment.

The Council on Aging provided programs and services to 3,124 seniors (age 60 or
more) and 1,985 non-seniors (family members and caregivers) during the past year.
2008 COA programs and services designed to keep elders independent, remain
healthy and stay connected with the community included:

Health/Wellness Screenings and Services: 529 health screenings and weekly
wellness clinics by the Public Health Nurse and the VNA were provided. The Board
of Health held one flu clinic at the Center that served more than 500 individuals.
Weekly sessions of chair massage were available at the center and meditation
classes were held.

Transportation: 8565 rides were provided to 155 senior citizens to medical
appointments, the senior center, shopping, nursing home visits, volunteer positions
and on errands. Another 33 rides were provided to 2 individuals under the age of 60
and disabled.

Nutrition: 17,314 home delivered meals were provided to 117 home bound
individuals and 2,146 meals were provided to 267 seniors at the center. Home
bound individuals were treated to “The Lazy, Hazy Days of Summer” by North
Shore Elder Services which included a lobster roll lunch and ice cream sundaes
delivered by volunteers. The Gerry #5 provided a fish lunch at the annual picnic and
the Marblehead Chowder Company provided a chowder luncheon for our
participants.

Education: 241 individuals took advantage of the many educational offerings at
the senior center including presentations on finances, reverse mortgages, art history,




                                        136
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


chiropractic care,memory loss, elder law, health plan options, driving, Protecting
Your Nest Egg, and health care proxies. 41 seniors received computer training. In
response to concerns about heating costs, a forum “Heating Safety and Assistance”
was held with the assistance of other town departments and NSCAP.

Fitness and Exercise: 508 older adults participated in fitness and exercise classes
that included weight training, yoga, physical therapy, osteo prevention, stretching,
strength & stretch, tai chi, better balance and Danskinetics.

Recreation and Arts/Crafts Activities: 1008 sessions of bridge, Mah Jongg,
cribbage, bingo, oil painting, golf, drawing, knitting, quilting, crafts, chorus, line
dance, country line dance, tap dance, book discussion, watercolor painting, wood
carving and art history attracted 729 individuals.

Travel Opportunities: The COA sponsored 7 day and overnight trips for 173
seniors. Destinations included the Canadian Rockies by rail, Atlantic City, a
lobsterbake in York ME, the Poconos, St. Patrick’s celebration at the Atkinson
resort, the Boston Trolley and Foxwoods.

Social Events: Social events included the annual picnic at the Gerry #5 and
monthly luncheons with entertainment to celebrate the holidays and seasons.
Special events were held for Senior Center Week. The Men’s Group continues to
grow and four speakers were hosted this year: Elder Law Attorney Alex Moschella,
Don Cahoon, Susan Wornick and economist John Bitner. The VNA Care Network
and Hospice underwrote the series for the year.

Safety: The COA continues to sponsor, along with the Essex County Sheriff’s Dept
and the Marblehead Police Dept, the Marblehead TRIAD which meets monthly at
the center. The group sponsored free photo IDs, the Yellow Dot Program, the File
of Life program, and weekly shredding sessions to avoid identity theft.

Health Insurance Counseling: The COA has two trained SHINE (Serving the
Health Insurance Needs of Elders) counselors – one staff and one volunteer- to
assist senior citizens with questions and concerns about their health insurance and
prescription coverage. 69 seniors were served.

Property Tax Work Off Program: Administered by the COA, this program
assisted 23 seniors who volunteered their services to the town in exchange for up to
$750 credit on their real estate tax bills.




                                        137
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Outreach: Outreach staff contacted 75 individuals to acquaint them with COA
programs and services. Referrals of seniors who may need assistance are received
from the police and fire departments and other agencies. More than 3,800 referrals
were made to other agencies such as North Shore Elder Services, the Marblehead
Counseling Center and the fuel assistance program. Farmers Market coupons were
distributed to 50 individuals. An Alzheimer’s Caregivers Support Group was
formed and is facilitated by Mary Demakes, RN.

Information and Referral: More than 2,800 seniors and 1,900 non-seniors
contacted the COA for information and more than 3,800 referrals were made to
other agencies. 3,000 copies of the monthly newsletter, The Old Marblehead Cod,
were distributed monthly. The COA also maintains its website pages on the town
website.

Volunteer Opportunities: The COA was able to hire a part time volunteer
coordinator using a state Service Incentive Grant. 93 volunteers provided 4,807
hours of service to the COA in a variety of roles including board members, lunch
servers, activity leaders, and instructors. Peggy Lloyd was presented with the COA
Volunteer of the Year award at the annual picnic for her many hours spent with the
COA library, luncheons and Christmas Walk.

Intergenerational Events: The COA continued its program for seniors to learn
the basics of computers from a high school student volunteer.The Marblehead
Veterans Middle School held a talent show and donated the $3000 proceeds to the
COA for its programs and this year the “Senior Moments” Tap Dance group
performed at the show. Thirty seniors were assisted with snow shoveling by
students from the Marblehead Veterans Middle School.

The Town of Marblehead appropriated $182,240 for FY 09 for the COA. In
addition, the COA was awarded a Title IIIC federal grant of $18,759 for its nutrition
programs and a Title IIIB federal grant of $6,079 for its outreach program by North
Shore Elder Services for the period 10/1/08-9/30/09. The Marblehead COA was
awarded a state Formula Grant for FY 08 in the amount of $28,595. The COA also
receives a monthly donation from the Marblehead Female Humane Society to fund
the part-time use of the second van and its driver for the transportation program.
The COA depends on donations and the Friends of the COA for additional funding.

The staff of the Council on Aging is to be commended for their commitment to
serving the senior residents of Marblehead:




                                        138
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


        Director…………………………Patricia C. Roberts
        Activities Director………………Maxine Stromberg
        Senior Day Center Coordinator…Jan DePaolo
        Outreach Worker………………..Audrey Connolly
        Site Manager……………………Thais Asainte
        Volunteer Coordinator…………..Ann Theriault
        Van Chauffeurs…………………Ron Birchmore, Glover Preble
        MOW Drivers………….Diane LeBoeuf, Virginia Power, Caryle Wildfield
        Clerk……………………………Carol Easthope
        Maintenance…………………….John Belanger

Respectfully submitted,
Rens Havens, Chairman            Ed Bell             Ed Demski
Joe Dever                        Linda Hall          Maureen Horan
Jeanne Louizos                   Liz Michaud         Jean Titus




                                    139
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

The Marblehead Department of Public Works is pleased to submit its report for the
calendar year 2008.

Over the past year our employees have been very busy performing the necessary
maintenance to keep our public ways safe and clear.

Some of the services provided include: pothole repair and patching, trench repairs,
sidewalk rebuilding and maintenance, traffic lining, street sweeping and of course,
snow removal.

This year our Chapter 90 funding from the state has allowed us to pave the
following roads in full.

Redstone Lane, Peach Highlands, Blueberry Road, Stonybrook Road, Cheever
Avenue, Wheeler Place and Calthrope Road. The Department also did the paving at
Historic Fort Sewall.

Our Chapter 90 funding also allowed the Town to pave the following streets in
PART: Lower Elm Street, Green Street (from Creesy St. to Lincoln Ave), Pleasant
St. (from the Abbot Public Library to Village St.), and Washington Street (from
Pleasant St. to Atlantic Avenue).

We recognize the inconvenience caused by some of this work and are grateful to the
residents for their tolerance during these activities.

This past winter was about average with somewhere close to 60” of snowfall. We
have been able to replace some of our aging

equipment which has made plowing operations easier to perform due to newer
equipment and of course, our dedicated crews.

We wish to acknowledge our two new employees to the Department. Both Dave
Perry and James DeCoste have been a welcome addition.

As always the DPW wishes to “Thank” all the other town employees who provide
necessary assistance in accomplishing all for the various tasks at hand.




                                       140
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Employee                                   Occupation

Dana Snow                                  Director
David Donahue                              Assistant Director
Susan Hogan                                Senior Clerk
Robert Nauss                               Mechanic
William Montgomery                         Mechanic
Christopher Phillips                       Mechanic
Arthur Graves                              Working Foreman
Steven Magrane                             Working Foreman
Robert Mace                                Working Foreman
James DeCoste                              Heavy Equipment Operator
Robert Delisle, Jr.                        Heavy Equipment Operator
Dave Perry                                 Heavy Equipment Operator
Robert Pollard                             Heavy Equipment Operator
Robert Titus                               Heavy Equipment Operator


Respectfully Submitted,

Dana E. Snow
Director of Public Works/Supt. Water, Sewer & Drain Depts.




                                     141
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                        ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT

During calendar year 2008 the Engineering Department provided municipal engineering
services to the Board of Selectmen and other town boards, commissions and departments.
Services such as street line locations, assessor map revisions, review of plans submitted to
the Planning Board under subdivision control and/or site plan review, administration and
review of submittals to the Conservation Commission under the Wetlands Protection Act
and the Marblehead Wetlands Protection Bylaw, and administration of the Zoning Board
of Appeals special permit process were provided. The Department also operated and
maintained the Town’s Geographic Information System (GIS) during the year.

The Ocean Avenue Causeway Seawall Replacement Project which began construction in
October 2007 was finished by July 2008. The project was completed on time and within
budget. Pihl-RDA, LLC of Quincy, Massachusetts constructed the new seawall at a cost
of $6,362,155.50, $3,368.50 under its bid amount of $6,365,524.00. Construction
inspection services were provided by Vine Associates, Inc. of Hingham, Massachusetts at
a cost of $139,600.00. Pare Corporation of Lincoln, Rhode Island, the firm that designed
the new seawall, provided necessary consulting services during construction at a cost of
$10,710.24.

Throughout 2008, the Engineering Department provided street line information and other
relevant surveying information to citizens, private engineers and surveyors upon request;
provided copies of assessors maps, zoning maps and street maps to the general public,
and provided flood insurance rate map determinations and other information relative to
properties located within flood hazard areas to individuals, realtors, insurance agents and
other interested parties. The Department also provided maps of abutters and abutters to
abutters within 300 feet of a subject property for Zoning Board of Appeals hearings,
Planning Board Site Plan Review hearings and Conservation Commission hearings.

During 2008, the Department continued to provide administrative, clerical, record
keeping and budgetary support to the Conservation Commission, Planning Board and
Zoning Board of Appeals.

Department personnel consist of Douglas W. Saal, Town Engineer and Andrea H. Flaxer,
Special Clerk.

Respectfully submitted,

Douglas W. Saal, P.E.
Town Engineer




                                           142
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                          FINANCIAL SERVICES

The Financial Services Department is responsible for the Town’s financial
functions, including accounting, payroll, revenue collection, budgeting, capital
financing and retirement management. The Financial Services Department is
overseen by the Town's Finance Director. The Finance Director also serves as the
Town Accountant and the Data Processing Coordinator.

Within Financial Services, the Accounting office is responsible for the audit and
approval of all Town expenditures and preparation of various accounting and
financial reports required by the State’s Department of Revenue. The Revenue
office is responsible for distribution of payroll and vendor checks and collection of
taxes and fees owed to the Town. Both the Treasurer and the Collector functions
are performed by this office. The Payroll Office performs all payroll functions and
administers various employee fringe benefits, including health insurance.

The department publishes a separate Comprehensive Annual Financial Report
(CAFR) for the Town on a fiscal year basis (July 1 to June 30) each year. A Copy
of the latest CAFR is available by contacting the Finance Director’s Office.

Among the more important accomplishments of the Financial Services department
during 2008 were:

    •    Received for the fourth consecutive year the Certificate of Achievement
         for Excellence in Financial Reporting from the Government Finance
         Officers Association. This award is only given to government units whose
         comprehensive annual financial reports (CAFRs) achieve the highest
         standards in government accounting and financial reporting. Marblehead
         is one of only 20 Massachusetts communities to receive this award.

    •    Completed the annual open enrollment process in May for employee and
         retiree health insurance. The 2008 open enrollment process coincided with
         the conversion from a self-insured program to a fully insured program
         under the Massachusetts Interlocal Insurance Association (MIIA).

    •    Continued the management of a Wellness Campaign for employees
         covered by the various Blue Cross Blue Shield plan options offered by the
         Town.




                                        143
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


    •   Managed the Town’s Official Website. This work includes managing the
        content of the website to ensure completeness and accuracy,
        implementation of new website features, and assisting other town
        departments with their website content. In 2008, the website continued to
        be enhanced with the addition of on-line forms that can be used by
        residents to submit certain information to the various Town Departments
        electronically over the internet via the town’s website.

    •   Managed the on-line payment option available for taxpayers to use in the
        payment of their Real Estate and Personal Property taxes as well as Motor
        Vehicle and Boat Excise Taxes.

    •   Converted, upgraded, and modernized the software used to account for all
        of the Town’s accounting and payroll activities. Installation of the new
        software was completed by the end of Fiscal Year 2008. The payroll
        system this replaced was approximately 30 years old and the accounting
        software this replaced was 25 years old. The new accounting software also
        has the capability to track the Town’s fixed assets.

    •   Converted and upgraded the software used to track receivables for the
        Harbor Enterprise and the software used to track dog licenses by the Town
        Clerk’s Office. Both of these software conversions and upgrades were
        underway by the end of FY08.

    •   Converted and upgraded the software used to manage the Town’s
        Retirement System.

Financial Services Department Staff

John J. McGinn            Finance Director/Town Accountant
Robert Ross               Assistant Director – Accounting
Patricia Kelly Murray     Treasurer/Tax Collector
Barbara Kiernan           Payroll Administrator
Connie Ross               Assistant Revenue Officer
Paul Jalbert              Accounting & Website Assistant
Dmitriy Vaydman           Accounting Assistant
Matthew Barrett           Retirement Administrator
Kathy Harvey              Administrative Clerk – Payroll Office
Deb Christensen           Senior Clerk – Revenue Office
Dianne Rodgers            Senior Clerk – Revenue Office




                                      144
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                            FIRE DEPARTMENT

The Marblehead Fire Department is pleased to submit to the citizens of Marblehead
our Annual Report for the period ending December 31, 2008.
The Department responded to a total of 2,341 incidents in 2008. Rescue and
emergency medical responses accounted for over 50% of all incidents. The
Department is licensed by the Office of Emergency Medical Services to operate as
an ambulance service at the basic level in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Cardiac defibrillators are carried on each piece of apparatus with all firefighters and
officers certified in cardiac defibrillation. We currently have 34 firefighters trained
as Emergency Medical Technicians (EMTs) and 1 trained as a Paramedic.
In July, Northshore Ambulance opened a base on Sewall Street enhancing the
emergency medical services provided to the Town of Marblehead. In November,
Atlantic Ambulance, a division of Cataldo Ambulance, took over the service from
Northshore and continues to operate out of the Sewall Street base.
The following personnel changes were made in 2008. Firefighter Paul Watts retired
after serving the town for many years. I would like to thank Paul for his years of
dedicated service to this department and to the Town of Marblehead. Grant Glavin
was appointed as a Permanent Full-Time Firefighter; Patrick Attridge, Robert
McKay and Steven Bivens were appointed as Reserve Firefighters; Reverend
Dennis Calhoun was appointed Department Chaplain, and Elizabeth Wilson was
promoted to Permanent Captain. I would like to congratulate each of these
department members on their appointments and promotions.
Firefighter Matthew Tina, whose National Guard Unit was activated in June 2007 in
support of Operation Iraqi Freedom, returned home safely in April. On behalf of the
Department, I would like to thank Matt for his service to our country.
We were saddened by the deaths of retired Firefighter Richard Atkins and retired
Lieutenant Raymond Bates. We are very grateful for their many years of service to
the Town of Marblehead.
The Department purchased new generators to replace the aging ones that supply
emergency back-up power at both stations and new portable radios with the latest
technology for our firefighters. Both projects were funded through the Department
of Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program.

The Department received a generous donation from the Lederman Family
Foundation to install lightning protection at fire headquarters on Ocean Avenue. We
are very grateful for the support from this organization.




                                         145
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



The Marblehead Local Emergency Planning Committee (LEPC) and the Board of
Selectmen previously voted to join a Regional LEPC with several surrounding
communities. As a result, the town is currently an active member of the Southern
Essex Emergency Planning Committee. The purpose of an LEPC is to enhance the
capabilities of a community to prepare for, respond to, and recover from hazardous
materials emergencies and we feel that a regional approach is the most effective
way to accomplish this goal.
We continue to benefit from the Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-Off Program
sponsored by the Council on Aging. This program has been extremely valuable to
this Department and the work performed by these volunteers is truly appreciated.
The Department wishes to offer our thanks to all other departments for their help
over this past year and to the citizens of the Town for their support and cooperation.
I would like to commend all Department members and dispatchers for their
dedication and professionalism, and express my sincere gratitude for the excellent
job that they do on a daily basis.

Respectfully submitted,

Barry C. Dixey
Chief of Department




                                        146
        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                     INCIDENTS
Structure/Building Fires               27
Vehicle/Boat Fires                     7
Other Fires                            24
Overpressure Rupture Explosions        4
Rescue/Emergency Medical Responses   1230
Hazmat Responses                       82
Other Hazardous Conditions             79
Severe Weather                         8
Bomb Scares                            3
Mutual Aid                             18
Service Calls                         293
Good Intent Calls                     152
Alarm System Malfunctions             223
Unintentional Alarm System Trips      157
Malicious False Calls                  2
Other False Alarms                     32
TOTAL                                2341




                        147
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                               APPARATUS
    Engine 1          2006 -- 1500 G.P.M. Pierce Pumper
    Engine 2          1998 -- 1500 G.P.M. Seagrave Pumper
    Engine 3          1989 -- 1250 G.P.M. Mack Pumper
    Ladder 1          1997 -- 75 Ft. KME Aerial Ladder-Quint
    C1                2006 -- Ford Explorer (Chief's Vehicle)
    C2                1997 -- Ford Explorer (Fire Prevention Vehicle)
    C3                2002 -- Ford F250 Pickup Truck
    Rescue Boat       2001 -- 14 Ft. Zodiac with Outboard
    Rescue Boat       1966 -- 13 Ft. Aluminum Boat

                   FIRE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL
 PROMOTIONS
 Captain Elizabeth A. Wilson                                      June 1, 2008
 APPOINTMENTS
 Chaplain Dennis Calhoun                                      January 23, 2008
 Reserve Firefighter Grant W. Glavin                            April 13, 2008
 Full-Time Permanent Firefighter Grant W. Glavin                  July 6, 2008
 Reserve Firefighter Patrick B. Attridge                    November 30, 2008
 Reserve Firefighter Steven L. Bivens                       November 30, 2008
 Reserve Firefighter Robert L. McKay                        November 30, 2008

 RETIREMENTS
 Firefighter Paul A. Watts                                        June 6, 2008


                     DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL
                         CHIEF
                      Barry C. Dixey

              FIRE PREVENTION CAPTAIN
                    Michael A. Porter
                      CAPTAINS
Richard H. Bartlett         Jason R. Gilliland




                                   148
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


   Walter F. Conrad, Jr.          Elizabeth A. Wilson
                           LIEUTENANTS
   Charles P. Cerrutti           Scott R. Murray
   Joseph W. Jurasek             Daniel A. Rice
                        FIREFIGHTERS
   Mark P. Barcamonte          Karl P. Lemieux
   Ar
   Arthur H. Boardway          John Lequin, Jr.
   Ronald N. Borden            Gregory T. Lydon
   Mark S. Borowski            Scott T. Martin
   Michael L. Church           Gregg M. McLaughlin
   Richard C. Cutting          Frank T. Monahan
   Rick R. DiGiammarino        Charles W. Morgan
   Timothy J. Doane            Thomas G. Rice
   Mark F. Fader               Eric M. Ridge
   Grant W. Glavin             Matthew J. Serratore
   Jeffrey K. Greenberg        Brendan J. Sheehan
   Adam J. Hatfield            Charles W. Sprague
   Martin T. Hines             Eric Z. Thibodeau
   James M. Horgan             Joseph M. Thibodeau
   Douglas B. Knowles          Matthew J. Tina
                           John G. Tobey

ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK              DEPARTMENT CHAPLAIN
  Mary E. Levine                  Reverend Dennis Calhoun

                               Fire Prevention
                “An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure”
                   -Benjamin Franklin, Volunteer Firefighter

The main objective of the Marblehead Fire Prevention Bureau is the protection of
life and property through the prevention of fire. This is accomplished by the
elimination of hazards through effective code enforcement and public education of
fire and life safety principles.




                                      149
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


The Fire Prevention Officer works in conjunction with the Building Department to
ensure that new construction and any renovations of existing structures meet the
minimum fire safety requirements. They also perform annual inspections of every
establishment that holds a license to serve alcohol.

Company Inspections ~ In-service fire companies made approximately 650 fire and
life safety inspections during 2008. These inspections included public buildings,
offices, mercantile buildings and multi-family structures with three or more units.
This accomplishes several things; the fire crews become familiar with the building
layout and they can reduce the loss of life and property by identifying fire and life
safety violations. Any violations found were ordered corrected.

The Marblehead Fire Department hosted its annual Fire Prevention open house
during the national Fire Prevention week in October. This year we had a return visit
from the Department of Fire Services fire sprinkler/safe house trailer. We were able
to provide live fire demonstrations to show the effectiveness of a single sprinkler
head activation in a home. Fire safety lessons were taught to parents and children
alike.

I would like to thank the Marblehead Firefighters, Dave Millett and Northshore
Ambulance for their participation in this worthwhile annual event. I would also like
to thank the following businesses for their generous donation of pizzas: Marblehead
House of Pizza, Romano’s Pizzeria, Tony’s Pizza and Café Vesuvius.

The Marblehead Fire Department was the proud recipient of the Life Safety
Achievement Award granted by the Residential Fire Safety Institute. Director Roy
L. Marshall stated “The Life Safety Achievement Award recognizes fire
departments for their fire prevention efforts and encourages them to continually
improve those efforts.” The Marblehead Fire Department qualified for this award
because we recorded zero fire deaths in structures during the year.

2008 Results by the numbers:

•   910 General inspections of property and buildings
•   55 Formal complaints investigated and conditions corrected
•   82 Inspection follow ups
•   81 Sets of plans reviewed
•   239 Residential sale of property inspections




                                        150
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


•   251 Miscellaneous calls made by the Fire Prevention Officer, which included
    fire drills, development of fire and life safety plans, evacuation plans, lectures
    on fire safety, inspector meetings and hands on demonstrations.

THE FOLLOWING PERMITS WERE ISSUED BY THIS BUREAU:

    Fire Alarm Boxes                                                    37
     Fire Reports                                                       09
     Fuel Permit                                                        02
     Oil Burner                                                         47
     Tank Removal                                                      152
     Tank Storage                                                       66
     Blasting                                                           01
     L.P. Gas                                                           23
     Dumpster                                                           91
     Sprinkler                                                          17
     Welding and Cutting                                                05
     Flammable Storage                                                  04
     Tent                                                               12
     Tank Truck Storage                                                 06
     Demo                                                               10
     Smokeless Powder                                                   00
     Black Powder                                                       00
SMOKE DETECTORS
     Residential Sale of Property                                      239
     Residential New Construction                                       07
     Remodel Residential                                                85
     Remodel Commercial                                                 14
     Commercial New                                                     02
TOTAL PERMITS                                                          829

The Fire Prevention Officer attends all Massachusetts Fire Prevention Association
and the Essex County Fire Chief’s Association - Fire Prevention Division meetings
to keep up to date with any new regulations or any changes to the present ones.

Please remember: Fire Prevention is everyone’s responsibility. Let’s keep
Marblehead a Fire Safe community.

Inspire the desire to prevent a fire!




                                        151
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Respectfully submitted,


Captain Michael A. Porter
Fire Prevention Officer

                                     S.A.F.E.
The following is a report from the Marblehead Fire Department Student Awareness
Fire Education (S.A.F.E.) Program for the year 2008.
The program is made possible by a grant from the Office of Public Education. The
goal of this program is to conduct fire and life safety education programs within the
town of Marblehead using trained firefighters as educators. Each of our educators is
certified as Public Life Safety Educator by the Massachusetts Firefighting
Academy.
For the past twelve years we have conducted a comprehensive six-week Fire and
Life Safety Program with all first and third grade students. The program covers
subjects such as Stop, Drop and Roll, Home Escape Plans, and Get Out and Stay
Out.
We continued our program for graduating High School Seniors about college
dormitory fire and life safety. We also continued our program focused on “common
sense” life safety for our High School Freshman. Additionally, a fire/life safety
seminar was conducted in conjunction with the Housing Authority at Farrell Court.
We are always pleasantly surprised by the residents, their comments and questions.
Fire Prevention Week is the second week in October and the Marblehead Fire
Department along with the SAFE Program had its annual Open House. This year at
our Open House we had a beautiful day, and over 300 visitors came by to meet our
Firefighters and to learn about what we do and the equipment we use. Captain
Porter arranged for the Department of Fire Services “Home Sprinkler
Demonstration Trailer.” It turned out to be a huge hit with both kids and adults. I
would like to thank all of the Firefighters who helped us set up and man all of our
demonstrations.
I would like to thank the following educators who work so hard towards the
betterment of our program: Firefighter Greg Lydon for doing such a great job with
the First Graders; Firefighter James Horgan, Firefighter Scott Martin, Firefighter
Martin Hines, Firefighter Eric Ridge and Firefighter Jeff Greenberg for getting
sprayed with the hose and packing up after all the fun; Firefighter Rick
DiGiammarino for making sure we have all the supplies we need; Firefighter Tim




                                        152
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Doane for continually coming up with new and innovative programs for us to try;
and Captain Mike Porter for helping us move in the right direction and facilitating
some of our more “non-traditional” ideas. And thanks to the entire Marblehead Fire
Department; without their support, a lot of our programs would not be possible.
A special thanks to the children for being so wonderful and their teachers for
allowing us into the classrooms.


Respectfully Submitted,
Firefighter Brendan Sheehan
SAFE Coordinator



                                Training Report

The Training Division serves to provide training resources; to assist company
officers and their members in improving company operations toward maintaining a
high level of proficiency, efficiency and readiness; and to assert upon all members
the reduction and prevention of accidents, injuries and occupational illnesses.

The objective of the division is to establish standardized-comprehensive training
procedures, following state and nationally accepted standards for the company
officers and firefighters and firefighter recruits.

The mission of the Training Division is to “maintain and provide quality training
and service, with safety for our firefighters and citizens being of highest priority.”

The Training Division coordinates all in house training by developing a monthly
training calendar based on identified training needs and mandated training topics.
The company officers are responsible for conducting regular drills and classroom
training on their respective shifts. Outside agencies and independent instructors
provide additional knowledge and skills in areas that require specialized training. In
2008, the four shifts combined logged 1,825 hours of in-service training.

All newly appointed firefighters are required to attend the twelve week recruit
training program at the Massachusetts Firefighting Academy. In the past year,
firefighters Matthew Tina and Grant Glavin graduated from the recruit training
program. Upon completion of the recruit training, firefighters Tina and Glavin




                                        153
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


obtained State and Pro Board certification as Firefighter I/II. It should be noted that
90% of the department’s personnel have now graduated from the Firefighting
Academy, and 93% hold certification as Firefighter I/II.

The Marblehead Fire Department has transitioned into a very young and energetic
department. With this transition comes a renewed sense of professionalism and a
desire for further career development. Many of the firefighters have taken advantage
of the opportunity to expand their knowledge and skills beyond the parameters of
the in-service training. In the past year our officers have attended Firefighter I/II
training and certification, Fire Instructor Methodology I training and certification,
Fire Investigator certification, Chief Fire Officers training, and Senior Fire Officer
Forums. I commend them for their continued dedication. Our firefighters have also
demonstrated that same commitment. Seven of our firefighters devoted several
months studying for the Civil Service Lieutenants exam. I wish them all the best.
Likewise, many firefighters have attended an array of courses offered by the
Massachusetts Firefighting Academy. I would like to congratulate firefighter John
Tobey for successfully obtaining certification as a Rope Rescue Technician, John
also sits on the Essex County Technical Rescue Steering Committee. I would be
remiss if I did not recognize Captain Michael Porter. Captain Porter has obtained
certification as Fire Inspector I and is currently studying for Fire Inspector II.
Captain Porter has also attended several other seminars in order to stay current with
the ever changing role of fire prevention officer. Some of the training attended
includes, Trench Safety Permitting, Fireworks CMR seminar, Building
Construction, and Flammable Storage.

Special thanks, to Lieutenant Charles Cerrutti for attending a grueling four day
train-the-trainer program for Rapid Intervention Teams. Lieutenant Cerrutti will use
the knowledge gained from his training, to instruct our firefighters on the most safe
and effective method of rescuing firefighters in distress.

All firefighters realize the importance of training in buildings typical of the ones
they respond to. From a small single-family residence to large commercial
structures, these building provide excellent training opportunities. In 2008, thanks to
the due diligence of our Fire Prevention Bureau, we were once again able to secure
four structures, two commercial and two residential, for the purpose of non-live fire
training. Each of the four shifts took full advantage of the availability. These four
structures afforded our firefighters the opportunity to practice strategy and tactics,
and gain practical experience with tools and equipment.




                                         154
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Providing emergency medical response to our citizens is one of our greatest
priorities. Our commitment to patient care is paramount. Ninety-five percent of our
firefighting personnel are Massachusetts State Certified Emergency Medical
Technicians. As a requirement of maintaining certification as an EMT, the State
mandates 28 hours of continuing education and a 24 hour refresher course. The
Marblehead Fire Department conducts over 497 hours of Medical and related
training a year. The Fire Department is also actively involved with the Heart Safe
Community CPR/Defibrillation program. We have provided CPR and defibrillator
training to other Town departments, citizens groups, religious organizations and
local business.

I would like to recognize and thank those individuals and departments that have
assisted with logistic and training location.
      • The Marblehead High School and Veterans Middle School for use of their
          facilities.
      • Abbot Public Library for use of their conference room.
      • Department of Public Works Director, Dana Snow.
      • Bill’s Towing and Naumkeag Used Auto Parts for supplying and
          removing our training vehicles.
      • Shawn Lerner, from When Seconds Count, for his assistance with medical
          training

I would like to express my appreciation to all the officers and firefighters who have
helped make the training program successful by their cooperation and assistance.


Respectfully,
Captain Jason R. Gilliland
Training Officer



                          Emergency Management
Emergency Management Agency prepares for natural and manmade disasters. The
Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) serves as the local
branch of the Federal Management Agency (FEMA).

Marblehead continues as an active member of the Southern Essex Emergency
Planning Committee. MEMA and the Southern Essex Emergency Planning




                                        155
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Committee hosted a tabletop exercise in Peabody in which Marblehead was a
participant. Held in March, this simulated exercise enabled multiple communities to
work together and put the committee emergency planning into action.

Marblehead Emergency Management attended many training seminars, which
MEMA offered. National Incident Management Systems (NIMS), Incident
Command System (ICS), Multi-Hazard Planning for Schools, and Terrorism and
Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD). These seminars were excellent training
opportunities. In early 2008, MEMA introduced a new and improved Web-EOC
program. Web EOC is a web-based information-sharing program on all MEMA
related subjects.

The town’s Hazard Mitigation committee has started the process of updating and
reviewing Marblehead’s Hazard Mitigation plan. The goal of Marblehead’s plan is
to reduce town wide loss of life, property, and infrastructure from natural disasters
through a comprehensive mitigation plan.

Representatives of FEMA were in Marblehead in December to assess the Abbot
Public Library for a possible Disaster Recovery Center (DRC). This is a pilot
program, which will help FEMA to build a database of DRC ‘s in Essex County.

I would like to thank all department heads and town employees who provided
service and support and a special thanks to Fire Chief Barry C. Dixey.


Respectfully,


Charles Cerrutti
Emergency Management Director




                                        156
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


           FORT SEWALL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE

The Fort Sewall Oversight Committee is an eight-member group appointed by the
Board of Selectmen and comprised of the following: Larry Sands – Glover’s
Marblehead Regiment, Chairman; Judy Anderson – Marblehead Museum and
Historical Society; Joyce Booth – Marblehead Historical Commission; Brenda
Arnold – Old Marblehead Improvement Association; Maureen McKinnon-Tucker –
Selectmen’s Advisory Committee on Disabilities; David Rodgers – Recreation and
Parks Commission; Julia Bantly – Old and Historic Districts Commission Ed Lang
– At large member; and Phil Norcross – At large member. Rebecca Curran, Town
Planner and Thomas Hamond, Recreation and Park Department are both ex-officio
members.

Several improvements were completed at the Fort in 2008. The privacy fences at the
restrooms were replaced, the spilt rail fence was replaced and a new post and chain
fence was installed to protect the upper magazines. Additionally new period lighting
was installed, overhead wires buried, and walkways re-surfaced. The committee
would like to thank Bob Jolly and the Electric Light Company, Dana Snow and the
Water and Sewer and Highway Departments who all greatly assisted in this effort.

On May 3rd we held the first annual Fort Sewall Clean-Up Day which was co-
sponsored by the Old Marblehead Improvement Association. This effort was a great
success with over 40 volunteers helping prune bushes, rake grass, scrape railings
and prepare Fort Sewall for prime visiting season! Thanks to OMIA, First Meeting
House Nursery School and Xtreme Silkscreen for underwriting the cost of t-shirts
for the workers. A new memorial commemorating the USS Constitution’s three
visits to Marblehead was installed in 2008 thanks to the efforts of Fred Goddard,
Tom McNulty and David Cashman.

In 2008 the committee hired the Cecil Group to assist with the design and
specification preparation for the remaining Phase 1 items to be completed, including
a redesign of the area in front of the restroom building with landscaping, the
installation of a drinking fountain: addressing some erosion problems, including the
elimination of existing log retaining wall and retaining stones to create a more
stable slope w/o retaining structure; installing native plant materials to discourage
foot traffic and assist in stabilizing the embankment; installation of a 4-5’ tall
wrought iron fence in approximate location of existing fence; and some work on the
upper magazines to remove historically inappropriate construction and fix erosion
problems.




                                        157
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


In 2009 the committee plans to continue work on the Fort Sewall Restoration
Project that began several years ago with a grant to develop a master plan for the
fort. Another Clean-Up Day is being co-sponsored by the Old Marblehead
Improvement Association. 2009 marks the 230th anniversary of the death of
Casimir Pulaski and we are participating in a re-dedication of the Pulaski memorial
plaque in October.

The Fort Sewall Oversight Committee thanks the Old Marblehead Improvement
Association for presenting the group with an award to acknowledge our effort at
historical preservation. It is with regret that we recently accepted the resignations of
members Brenda Arnold and Maureen McKinnon Tucker. We thank them for their
contributions during their time on the committee.


Respectfully submitted,

Larry Sands, Chairman
Judy Anderson
Joyce Booth
Brenda Arnold
Ed Lang
Phil Norcross
Maureen McKinnon-Tucker
David Rodgers
Julia Bantly
Rebecca Curran, Town Planner
R. Thomas Hamond, Recreation and Park Department




                                         158
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                         HARBORS AND WATERS

The Harbor and Waters Board is pleased to submit its annual report for the period
ending December 31, 2008.

 At May Town Meeting residents overwhelming approved the funds for the
construction of a pier as well as landside improvements at the end of Stramski Way.
The funds will be spent from the Harbor & Waters receipts.

 An Order of Conditions for the construction of the Stramski Pier Project was
approved by the Marblehead Conservation Commission. The Stramski Pier project
is currently on hold pending the outcome of an appeal to the Department of
Environmental Protection, filed by concerned residents.

The visiting yacht facility located at The Harbormasters Quarters at Tuckers Wharf
was very active throughout the season

From June thru mid October the Marine Sanitation Pumpout Boat operated Monday
thru Fridays. The land based Marine sanitation pumpout facility at Cliff Street is
available seven days a week twenty four hours a day. Department personal pumped
out approx 250marine sanitary holding tanks during the 2008 season.

The Harbormaster’s patrol staff responded to various calls and rendered such aid
as, towing disabled vessels, dewatering vessels, providing medical assistance,
conducting search and rescue for overdue vessels, investigated fuel and oil spills,
removed various hazards to navigation.

Special events patrolled;

July 4, 2008 Fireworks

The first annual Great Race, sponsored by the Rotary Club of Marblehead.

The Harbors and Waters Board extends its gratitude to The Board of Selectmen, as
well as all the Town Departments and their employees that provide service and
support to the Harbormasters operations.

Respectfully submitted
Charles J .Dalferro
Harbormaster




                                        159
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Harbor and Waters Board Members

 Gary P .Gregory - Chairman
 John Doub               William Pattison
Jay Michaud              Paul N. Williams



Alternate members

Kenneth Breen, Eliot Rothwell, Paul Stevens

Harbormaster Personnel

Charles J. Dalferro       Harbormaster
Fred Webb Russell III     Assistant Harbormaster
Daniel Roads              Assistant Harbormaster
Sandra Carney             Office Manager

Seasonal Assistants

Frank MacIver             Joseph Homan
Thomas Murray             Jeffrey Flynn
Raymond Gauthier          Carlo Fratini




                                      160
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


               MARBLEHEAD CULTURAL COUNCIL

FY 2008, with $1760 in our account for various reasons and $4000 given to the
Marblehead Cultural Council by the state, a portion of $5,760 was awarded to each
of 14 grant applications. 8 grant requests were denied mainly due to a lack of venue
in Marblehead. Below is a brief summary of the grants that were approved.

    1.   Anchor to Windward will be showing the movie "The Other Sister" to
         bring public awareness and education to the community about the
         discrimination and stigma attached to the population of young adults with
         complex and pervasive learning disabilities.
    2.   Stephen Baird will provide a one-hour summer family and children's
         performance of songs and stories accompanies by guitar, mandolin, banjo,
         hammered dulcimer, animal costumes, kazoos and puppets at the Library.
         Admission is free. Expected attendance is 100 children and adults.
    3.   The Legends School Program will give a one-week arts in education
         residency to the Cohen Hillel school 5th graders - teaches local, regional
         and national history to students in the form of dance, music, art and
         creative writing.
    4.   Wild about reading is an exciting program of stories and songs that
         celebrates reading, the natural world and the human spirit. Roger Tincknell
         & Davis Bates are the performers.
    5.   The program provides the opportunity for 2nd & 3rd graders in the
         Marblehead school system to see the Underground Railway Theatre
         production of the "Carnival of Animals."
    6.   A full day of training to find the character, intention, movement and voice
         for a chosen song, another full day work shopping that song into a
         performance to be presented to the public on the last of the workshop
         during an evening performance. This event will be facilitated by Follow
         Hymn Music Ministries.
    7.   Gary Jackson and Chris Glanville are a classical guitar and flute duo
         performing musical pieces from the Medieval and Renaissance through to
         Jazz and present day.
    8.   Marblehead Community Charter Public School is presenting Art Quest:
         Ancient China to 4th grade students to learn about art from the Shang
         through the Ming Dynasty.
    9.   Luminescence is a student a cappella group from the Marblehead High
         School. This grant will help to cover the cost of recording a CD.




                                       161
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


    10. North Shore Dance Alliance will invite area studios and schools to send
        their most serious dancers ages 12-18 to attend a master class in musical
        theater dance and to perform for each other.
    11. This grant will help defray the cost of the celebration of Israel's 60th year
        that will be free and open to the public - games, dancing, food, crafts and
        music. The events will be held at the Jewish Community Center in
        Marblehead and Congregation Shirat Hayam.
    12. Old North Festival Chorus Concert with singers and musicians. This is the
        27th year for this event.
    13. Senior Moment Tap & Dance Group - Tap dance classes specifically
        designed for seniors.
    14. Grandma, Vaudeville & Me is a program for seniors and children,
        storytelling with a dance program of poignant and true stories and
        entertaining Vaudeville dances I tell about my grandmother, a consummate
        storyteller, and Joe Stirling Beath, a 1930's Vaudeville Tap Dancer.

Members of the council this year were Howie Rosenkrantz, Susan Gessner, Sandra
Broughton, Joan Hollister, Georgia Murray and Michele Bell.

Respectfully submitted by,



Ava Lawrence
Chair, Marblehead Cultural Council




                                       162
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


          MARBLEHEAD HISTORICAL COMMISSION

The goal of the Marblehead Historical Commission is to protect, preserve and
develop the assets of the Town of Marblehead set forth by State Statue of the
Massachusetts General Law, Chapter 40, Section 8d.

The Commission has rooms in Abbot Hall to display and store historic artifacts,
maintain a Maritime Room, a gift shop and office space for research and cataloging
items in the collection. The office is on the second floor of Abbot Hall and is open
from 9:00 – 11:30am and 12:30 – 2:30pm daily. The Commission has monthly
meetings on the 4th Tuesday of the month at 10:00 AM. The public is invited to
attend.

The Maritime Room was opened in the spring of 2008, staffed by volunteers.
Everything has been catalogued and we are hoping to have more volunteers when
the room is open for visitors in the spring of 2009.

The gift shop is managed by Gail Gray and also staffed by volunteers. It is open
during the tourist season and for the Arts Festival and Christmas Walk. We plan to
have both rooms open for visitors in the spring of 2009.

In 2008 we accomplished the following:

    1.   The bell from the USS Marblehead arrived from the National Park Service
         in San Francisco.
    2.   A display stand for both bells was built entirely by volunteers. The Tower
         School donated the material, the builder was Bill Kuker and Scott
         Campbell stained the stand. It is located in the rotunda in Abbot Hall.
    3.   We began the restoration process for the stained glass windows on the 1st
         and 2nd landings. Work will begin in the Spring of 2009.
    4.   The floors at Abbot Hall were sanded and refinished and paid for from the
         Shattuck Fund.
    5.   A list was compiled of paintings and artifacts that belong to the Town
         located in Abbot Public Library.
    6.   The repair and finish of the four entrance doors to Abbot Hall have been
         contracted and work will begin in the spring of 2009.
    7.   The fading of the Lafayette Letter was addressed and a copy was inserted
         in the frame located in the Selectmen’s Office. The original will be kept in
         a safe place.




                                        163
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


    8.   The Dedication Ceremony of the Marblehead Forever Plaque, honoring
         author Marcia Selman and former Chairman of the Marblehead Historical
         Commission Paul Lausier, took place on November 11th and will hang over
         the new display case in the auditorium.

It is noted that the new President of the United States referred to one of the proudest
moments in Marblehead History when he spoke of the crossing of the Delaware at
Trenton.

The same volunteers have continued with cataloging the collection.           They are
Wayne Butler, Chris Johnston, Eleanor Rhoades and Richard Case.

Respectfully submitted,


Wayne T. Butler, Chairman
William E. Conly
Paul “Chris” Johnston
Nancy Graves
Joyce Booth
Raymond F. Cole, Jr.
Donald Gardner

Eleanor Rhoades
Secretary




                                         164
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


             MARBLEHEAD HOUSING AUTHORITY
The Marblehead Housing Authority is pleased to submit our annual report for the
year ending December 31, 2008.

The Marblehead Housing Authority is “a public body politic and corporate”
authorized by State Law and regulated by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
(Department of Housing and Community Development).

The Board of Commissioners consists of four members elected by the Town, and
one member appointed by the Governor. The Board meets regularly on the third
Tuesday of each month and conducts its Annual Meeting and election of officers
every June.

The Board of Commissioners contract with an Executive Director who administers
the day-to-day operation of the Agency.

The Marblehead Housing Authority administers three (3) housing programs
designed to provide the Town with decent, safe, and affordable housing. The
Authority currently operates 307 units of state-assisted conventional housing, as
follows:

                        1 bedroom     2 bedroom        3 bedroom         Total
Family Housing:
Barnard Hawkes Ct           N/A             12              10            22
Broughton Road              N/A             33              21            54
New Broughton Road          N/A             4               4             8

Elderly Housing
Powder House Court          38              N/A            N/A            38
Green Street Court          32              N/A            N/A            32
Farrell Court               64              N/A            N/A            64
New Farrell Court           48              N/A            N/A            48
Roads School                41              N/A            N/A            41

TOTAL                       223             49              35            307




                                      165
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Funding for all programs is received through the Department of Housing and
Community Development (DHCD). Although the Marblehead Housing Authority is
eligible for subsidy under its contributions contract with the DHCD, at the present
time the overall income from rents is in excess of the allowable expense level, and
therefore the Authority does not receive a subsidy.

The Marblehead Housing Authority receives no funding from the Town of
Marblehead.

Eligibility

The Net Income Limits for determining admission to state-aided housing are as
follows:

              No. in Household:                 Net Income Limit:
                     1                                 $46,300
                     2                                 $52,950
                     3                                 $59,550
                     4                                 $66,150
                     5                                 $71,450
                     6                                 $76,750
                     7                                 $82,050
                     8                                 $87,350

Assets: There is no longer any asset limit in any of the Authority’s programs. The
current HUD determined interest rate, or actual interest earned on assets, is included
as income.

Local preference is given to eligible applicants who live or work in the town of
Marblehead.


Veteran’s Preference is given for family housing and to elderly local applicants.

Rent

Residents of elderly housing pay 30% of their adjusted gross income for rent, which
includes all utilities. The average rent paid this year by an elderly resident was
$358.00. The lowest rent paid this year was $18.00 and the highest rent paid was
$1060.00.




                                        166
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Family residents pay 27% of their adjusted income toward rent, and pay for their
own utilities. Family residents are also given an annual heat allowance of $500.00
(two bedroom unit) or $600.00 (three bedroom unit). The average rent paid by a
family this year was $428.00. The lowest rent paid by a family was $50.00 and the
highest rent paid was $1278.00.

The Authority processed three hundred and sixty (360) rent re-certifications,
including two hundred and fifty (250) annual re-certifications and one hundred and
ten (110) interim rent changes.

Applications for Admission/Occupancy Statistics

The Authority saw a significant increase in the number of applicants for housing in
2008.

The Authority received eighty (80) applications for elderly housing during 2008,
including nineteen (19) under the age of sixty (60). This represents a thirty percent
(30%) increase in housing applications. There are currently one hundred and nine
(109) applicants on the waiting list for elderly housing, including eighty-eight (88)
young disabled applicants.

There were thirty-two (32) vacancies in elderly housing during 2008. Of those
vacancies, seven (7) entered a nursing home, and six (6) went to live with family.

The average age of a resident in elderly housing is seventy-six (76). There are
eleven (11) residents over the age of ninety (90), including six (6) residents age
ninety-five (95) or older. Our oldest resident is age ninety-eight (98).

In accordance with State guidelines, 13.5% of the units are occupied by disabled
residents under the age of sixty (60).

The family housing waiting list was re-opened in July. Between July and the end of
the year, the Authority received one hundred and eighteen (118) applications. The
Authority also conducted a waiting list update of the family housing program. As
of the year-end, there were one hundred and twenty-four (124) families on the
waiting list.




                                        167
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


During 2008, nine (9) families moved from family housing: eight (8) families
moved to private housing, and one family (1) family was evicted for lease
violations. In addition, three (3) families were transferred within the Authority due
to being either under-housed or over-housed.

Of the eighty-three (83) units of family housing occupied at year-end, there were
sixty-eight (68) single-parent households, and fifteen (15) two-parent households.
There are one hundred and eleven (118) children under the age of eighteen (18)
living in the family housing complexes.

Maintenance

The Maintenance Department completed a total of fourteen hundred and ninety-six
(1496) work orders, including resident requests, Authority requests, and inspection
findings. Three hundred and eighty (380) unit inspections were completed this year.
These included an annual inspection of every apartment, thirty-five (35) move-in
inspections, thirty-one (31) move-out inspections, and forty-one (41) interim
inspections. The Department also completed forty-one (41) apartment turn-overs:
thirty-two (32) elderly and nine (9) family units. In addition, the maintenance staff
performed a spring clean-up and planting, summer mowing, watering, weeding, and
trimming; fall clean-up and winter snow and ice removal.


Capital Improvements

The Authority continued its efforts to modernize buildings and grounds at several
developments.

Through a grant from DHCD, a study of the dry pipe sprinkler system at the Roads
School was done, and improvements to the system were made.

The Authority completed an exterior door replacement project at our Green Street
Court elderly housing complex. This project included the removal of sixteen (16)
existing steel doors, installation of new doors with sidelights, new hardware, new
trim and painting.

The Authority also completed an exterior door replacement project at our family
housing complex located at Barnard Hawkes Court. New entry doors, storage room
doors, and new storm doors were purchased and were installed by our maintenance
staff.




                                        168
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



New exterior entry doors and storm doors were also installed at twelve (12) units of
family housing at our Broughton Road family housing development.

A site-improvement initiative was undertaken at Barnard Hawkes Court, which
included the planting of new shrubs and grass, new fencing and gates, and extensive
asphalt removal.

Numerous other capital improvement projects were completed during the year. The
Authority spent approximating $15,000.00 on the replacement of appliances (stoves
and refrigerators) in our elderly housing units. Mechanical upgrades to heat and hot
water systems were completed, and roof repairs, gutter repairs, new flooring, and
kitchen cabinets were replaced throughout our complexes. Handicapped door
openers were installed at two (2) locations

General Administration:

Marketing and Outreach

A comprehensive Marketing Plan was developed this year, including community
outreach, new brochures, public service announcements, media coverage, and
special events. A Housing Forum took place at the Abbot Library, which included
printed material, as well as an extensive photo display of the Authority’s housing
complexes, community rooms, as well as pictures taken in several units.

The Board of Commissioners adopted one new policy in 2008. A Gardening Policy
was instituted at all complexes.

The Board also updated two existing policies: the Pet Policy and the On-Call Policy
for the maintenance department.

A modernization office was created to assist the Authority in the organization of
this program, including capital improvement projects and modernization grants, as
well as cataloguing every building system at each of the Authority’s developments
onto a web-based system.

Services to Residents

The Authority continued our support of resident programs this year, and two new
programs were initiated.




                                       169
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



A Fall Prevention Campaign was instituted in response to startling statistics about
fatal falls of senior citizens in Massachusetts. The Authority partnered with several
local agencies and invited speakers in to address this issue. There were
presentations to improve strength, mobility and balance; environmental
modifications such as installing grab bars and removing trip hazards; and a session
on how medications may be a factor. Residents formed a Walking Group; and fall
prevention was covered at the Annual Safety Program

A Grief Counseling and Bereavement Program was developed to assist residents
in dealing with the loss of a spouse, loved one, neighbor, or close friend, and to help
the staff to deal with the loss of residents and be better prepared to deal with the
family, and other residents, particularly in the case of a sudden death. The MHA
partnered with the Marblehead Counseling Center to implement this program.

In order to effectively communicate with residents, and keep them up-to-date, the
Authority distributes a monthly newsletter to all three hundred and seven (307)
households, and welcomed residents to meet with staff and neighbors at a monthly
coffee hour. The Authority sponsored ten (10) guest speakers at this year’s coffee
hours. Every new resident was provided with a packet of information called
“Making the Connection”, designed to inform them about the Authority’s policies
and procedures, as well as information about local agencies and programs that may
be of assistance to them.

The Authority also sponsored a number of other programs designed with our
residents in mind. These include the following:

Resident Service Coordination: By identifying residents that may need assistance
through interviews, phone calls, at the annual unit inspection and the annual rent
recertification meeting, this program links residents to the community resources that
will enable them to live independently for as long as possible. This year, twenty-
three (23) referrals for services were made, including home making, transportation,
financial assistance, medical assistance and protective services.

The Authority completed its sixth year of a Rent Escrow Program, which enables
eligible households in family housing to transition to unsubsidized housing options
in the private market. Three (3) families participated in this program during 2008.




                                         170
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


The Annual Cookout was held in September. This year’s theme was a salute to the
Boston Red Sox, along with live musical entertainment, prizes and a batting
machine. The Authority is grateful to the many local businesses that donated food
and prizes for this event, and to the Park and Recreation Department for the use of
the tents. The administrative staff prepared and served the food, and the
maintenance staff set-up, did the grilling, and the clean-up.

Residents also enjoyed our Annual Holiday Party held in December, with live
music, caroling, and a performance by the Tower School hand bell choir. Once
again, local businesses generously donated gift certificates for the raffle, which is
always the highlight of this event.

Community Activities:

The Authority continued close partnerships with several public and private local
entities.

The Annual Safety Program for residents of elderly housing was held in
conjunction with the Marblehead Police and Fire Departments. This popular
program includes fire prevention and safety tips, fall prevention and personal safety.
The Authority’s “Emergency and Safety Plan”, which is designed to keep residents
and staff as safe as possible during an emergency, was also distributed.

The Marblehead Housing Authority Providers Group, consisting of
representatives from local service agencies and community organizations that serve
the needs of the elderly residents in town, continued to meet monthly to share
information, collaboration and outreach. This group allows needed communication
between these agencies for the benefit of our residents.

The Authority held monthly health clinics, sponsored by the
Marblehead/Swampscott VNA, at all of our community rooms, affording residents
an opportunity to have their blood pressure checked on a regular basis, discuss
medical conditions and have questions answered.

The Executive Director is a member of the TRIAD Council, a partnership between
the Essex County Sheriff’s Department, the District Attorney’s Office, the
Marblehead Police Department and the Marblehead Council on Aging. The TRIAD
program develops and implements an effective crime prevention and education
program for elders.




                                        171
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


The Housing Authority wishes to thank the current staff, Assistant Director Debra
Larkin, Housing Manager Cynthia Palladino, Administrative Assistant Christine
Levoshko, Office Clerk Danielle Caron, Maintenance Foreman John Bonfanti, and
Maintenance Department staff members Mark Sasso, Christopher Homan, Stephen
Abramo, and Michael Curley, for their dedication and hard work during the past
year.

The Housing Authority also wishes to express its sincere appreciation to the town
departments and the citizens of Marblehead, who have supported and assisted the
Authority in our efforts to provide affordable housing for the residents of
Marblehead.

Respectfully submitted,


Nancy M. Marcoux,
Executive Director

Board of Commissioners:
Jean R. Eldridge, Chairman
Richard Whitehill, Vice Chair
Robert Bryne, Treasurer
Peter Russell, Assistant Treasurer & State Appointee
Pamela Basso, Member




                                       172
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


         METROPOLITAN AREA PLANNING COUNCIL
Created by an act of the Legislature in 1963, the Metropolitan Area Planning
Council (MAPC) promotes inter-local cooperation and advocates for smart growth
by working closely with cities and towns, state and federal agencies, non-profit
institutions, and community-based organizations in the 101 cities and towns of
Metropolitan Boston. MAPC strives to provide leadership on emerging issues of
regional significance by conducting research, building coalitions, advocating for
public policies, and acting as a regional forum for action.

MAPC provides technical assistance and specialized services in land use planning,
water resources management, transportation, housing, resource protection,
economic development, public safety, geographic information systems (GIS),
collective purchasing, data analysis and research, legislative and regulatory policy,
and the facilitation and support of inter-local partnerships. More information is
available at www.mapc.org.

MAPC is governed by 101 municipal government appointees, 21 gubernatorial
appointees, and 13 appointees of state and City of Boston agencies. An Executive
Committee comprising 25 elected members oversees agency operations. The agency
employs approximately 40 professional staff under the leadership of an executive
director. Funding for MAPC activities is derived from governmental contracts and
foundation grants, and a per-capita assessment on member municipalities.

To better serve the people who live and work in Metro Boston, MAPC has divided
the region into eight subregions. Each subregion is overseen by a council of local
leaders and stakeholders, and a staff coordinator provides organizational and
technical staff support.

Advancing Smart Growth

MAPC is directed by statute to adopt, from time to time, a comprehensive regional
plan. Our current plan, MetroFuture: Making a Greater Boston Region, was
adopted by the Council on December 2, 2008. This initiative, which has engaged
over 5,000 individual and organizations throughout the region, will guide Metro
Boston’s growth and development, as well as the preservation of critical resources,
through the year 2030. At the December 2nd meeting, Council members and
MetroFuture friends and supporters voted to move the project from planning into
advocacy and action, and participants helped to set priorities among a series of
implementation strategies designed to move MetroFuture into this dynamic next




                                        173
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


stage. MetroFuture is uniting the efforts of MAPC, partner organizations, and the
thousands of “plan-builders” in an effort to alter regional priorities and growth
patterns consistent with the new plan.

As a member of the Massachusetts Smart Growth Alliance, MAPC helped to
form the Transportation Investment Coalition last year. This year, the group of
business, environmental, public interest, and planning organizations changed its
name to Our Transportation Future, and has actively advocated for savings,
efficiencies, and new revenues to address the state transportation finance deficit.

MAPC has continued its participation on a zoning reform task force chaired by
Undersecretary for Economic Development Gregory Bialecki. The “Land Use
Partnership Act,” developed through the task force, would establish a framework
for municipalities to designate growth and preservation areas, and to develop
consistency between master plans and zoning. The bill would significantly
modernize the state’s outdated zoning and subdivision laws, providing a menu of
reforms to all municipalities, and additional relief to those who choose to opt into
the bill’s planning and smart growth requirements. Passing legislation to reform
zoning and planning in the Commonwealth will remain a key area of focus at
MAPC throughout 2009.

Collaboration for Excellence in Local Government

Subregional councils continued to communicate with MAPC’s eight regions and to
gather citizen input this year. Most of the subregional coordinators hosted
legislative breakfasts this year, where participants could prioritize legislative goals
and ideas with their delegation.

Through its Metro Mayors Coalition, MAPC helped 21 communities secure more
than $2 million in Shannon Grant funding over the past three years to implement
multi-jurisdictional, multi-disciplinary strategies to combat youth violence, gang
violence, and substance abuse. Our North Shore Coalition has grown and flourished
during 2008, working on issues as diverse as transportation planning, anti-gang
programs, and consolidation of services.

Collaboration for Public Safety

MAPC performs fiduciary, planning, and project management duties for the
Northeast Homeland Security Regional Advisory Council (NERAC), a network
of 85 cities and towns north and west of Boston. In 2008, MAPC helped to develop




                                         174
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


evacuation and sheltering plan templates across the region, and created three
regional caches of emergency response equipment that can be loaned out to
municipalities for drill exercises or emergencies.

MAPC completed Natural Hazard Mitigation Plans for 46 cities and towns this
year, on top of the 29 plans already completed in recent years. Each plan
recommends strategies to mitigate the impacts of natural disasters before they occur,
along with a GIS map series depicting areas subject to various natural hazards.

Collaboration for Municipal Savings

MAPC’s Regional Services Consortia administered procurements for more than
50 cities and towns, saving communities up to 20% on purchases such as office
supplies, paving services, and road maintenance. In 2008, MAPC performed
multiple procurements for five consortia: North Shore, South Shore, Metrowest,
Northwest and Merrimack Valley (the last in collaboration with the Merrimack
Valley Planning Commission). MAPC also entered the vehicle fuels market in
2008, procuring a contract for several South Shore towns.

Reliable Data, Available to All

MAPC, along with the Massachusetts Executive Office of Transportation, continued
this year to provide municipalities with Pictometry Oblique Aerial Imagery
Technology free of charge to cities and towns. The Pictometry Oblique Aerial
Imagery Technology allows users to display features such as buildings, land areas
and hydrology, which may be viewed from several directions and at different scales.

In April 2008, Pictometry International once again conducted a flyover of the entire
state that provides five-way aerial imagery for all public sector agencies statewide.
The five-way imagery consists of four oblique views (north, south, east and west)
and one straight down view that may be viewed through Pictometry’s Electronic
Field Study software version 2.7, which is also available at no cost to
municipalities.

MAPC also continued expanding the MetroBostonDataCommon.org Web site,
which provides on-line mapping and chart-generating tools for users. This year, the
Massachusetts School Building Authority contracted with MAPC for analysis and
consulting services, including analysis of the impact of new schools on enrollment
patterns. The Data Center also began distributing a monthly e-mail newsletter
highlighting new datasets and resources for constituents.




                                        175
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



MAPC’s data center is partnering with the Donahue Institute at the University of
Massachusetts to encourage more accurate counts on the 2010 Federal Census.
MAPC is helping municipalities prepare for the Census in many ways, including
advocating for the formation of Complete Count Committees that can target hard-
to-count population groups such as recent immigrants and renters in each city and
town.

Getting Around the Region

MAPC continued its popular Regional Bike Parking Program, negotiating
discount group purchasing contracts with three leading vendors of bicycle parking
equipment. This allows MAPC communities, the MBTA, and the Department of
Conservation and Recreation to purchase discounted equipment. The Boston Region
MPO, the Executive Office of Transportation, and the Federal Highway
Administration have provided generous funding to support 100% reimbursement
of the cost of eligible bike parking equipment bought through this program.
Communities around the region have used the program to put new racks at schools,
libraries, parks, and shopping areas.

MAPC continued its work on the Regional Pedestrian Plan, administering a
survey this year to nearly 2,000 people. The plan will identify policies to make
walking more convenient, safe and practical.

On Beacon Hill

    •   Municipal Health Insurance:
        MAPC continued encouraging municipalities to join the Massachusetts
        Group Insurance Commission (GIC), which can help communities save
        millions of dollars each year by taking advantage of lower insurance rates
        available through the GIC. To date, 27 municipalities have joined the GIC.

    •   Shannon Community Safety Initiative:
        Over the last three years, MAPC’s advocacy and grant development
        services have helped more than two dozen communities to secure funding
        for interdisciplinary programs that focus on youth violence, drugs, and
        enforcement against gangs. The program was funded at $13 million in
        Fiscal 2009.

    •   Statewide Population Estimates Program:




                                      176
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


       A $600,000 line item in the 2008 budget provided the State Estimates
       Program with more resources to prepare for the 2010 Census. This
       program will help correct the deficiencies of recent population estimates
       and to prevent similar deficiencies from occurring in 2010. Conservative
       estimates suggest Massachusetts stands to gain between $2.5 million and
       $5 million per year in federal funding, or between $7.5 million and $15
       million between 2007 and the 2010 Census as a direct result of the
       program’s efforts.

   •   Surplus Land:
       MAPC continues to advocate for passage of a new policy on the
       disposition of surplus state land. Specifically, we continue to build support
       for our proposal that encourages smart growth development on surplus
       land while giving municipalities a meaningful role in the disposition
       process, a discounted right of first refusal, and financial participation in the
       proceeds.

   •   Community Preservation Act:
       CPA has been very popular throughout the region, but recently the state
       matching fund has declined precipitously. Legislation filed by Senator
       Cynthia Creem (D-Newton) and Representative Stephen Kulik (D-
       Worthington) would secure adequate funding over the long term for the
       state’s CPA matching fund, and encourage even more communities to join.

   •   District Local Technical Assistance
       The planning assistance offered through the District Local Technical
       Assistance Fund (DLTA) was funded at $2 million for Fiscal 2009. It
       enables the state’s 13 Regional Planning Agencies, including MAPC, to
       provide municipalities with technical assistance in two key areas:
       achieving smart growth land use objectives, and consolidating
       procurement, services and planning across city and town lines.

MAPC Annual Report prepared and submitted by Marc D. Draisen, Executive
Director, Metropolitan Area Planning Council.

Subregions

Inner Core Committee (ICC)




                                       177
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Arlington, Belmont, Boston, Brookline, Cambridge, Chelsea, Everett, Lynn,
Malden, Medford, Melrose, Milton, Newton, Quincy, Revere, Saugus, Somerville,
Waltham, Watertown, Winthrop


The Inner Core Committee discussed planning, legislative and transportation issues
that are relevant to urban communities. Guest speakers presented the following
topics: Urban Renewal Planning and District Improvement Financing; U.S. Census
2010; Massachusetts Green Communities Act; Cambridge - A Green Community;
and the Mystic River Watershed Initiative. Laura Wiener (Arlington) and Joe
Viola (Brookline) began serving as Chair and MAPC Legislative Committee
Liaison respectively. Jeff Levine (Brookline) served as the ICC’s designee to the
Metropolitan Planning Organization’s Regional Transportation Advisory Council.

The Committee took the following actions in 2008: reviewed the Harvard
University Master Plan EENF; set priorities for the FFY 2008-2011 Transportation
Improvement Program (TIP); and provided comments on the TIP, UPWP, and
zoning reform. The following projects were completed in the subregion: Town of
Arlington housing and economic development planning; City of Malden – Malden
Vision Phase I; Town of Saugus Accessory Dwelling Unit bylaw and analysis of
Cliftondale Square; and the Mystic River Corridor Strategy led by the City of
Somerville. Two new regional initiatives began: Metro Mayors Coalition
foreclosure activities and Metropolitan Boston Housing Partnership’s plan to end
homelessness for the Metro Boston Region.

Minuteman Advisory Group on Interlocal Coordination (MAGIC)
Acton, Bedford, Boxborough, Carlisle, Concord, Hudson, Lexington, Lincoln,
Littleton, Maynard, Stow, Sudbury



MAGIC held seven regular meetings and five special meetings in 2008. The
standard meetings consisted of local officials from the thirteen communities
discussing transportation planning and priorities for state funding, state zoning
reform, large regional transportation projects, local walkway initiatives, aerial and
oblique imagery, rails and trails projects, the U.S. Census, as grant programs for
municipalities, and other inter-municipal planning issues. MAGIC provided input
into various state and regional transportation plans, as well as commented on MEPA
reviews.




                                        178
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


For the special meetings, MAGIC hosted two well-attended legislative breakfast
tofacilitate communication between municipal officials and the MAGIC legislative
delegation. MAGIC also hosted a training by the Citizen Planner Training
Collaborative (CPTC) on affordable housing, a 2-day training GIS training session.
MAGIC members also attended a local strategy session for MAPC’s MetroFuture
initiative. In addition to subregional activities, MAPC assisted with the following
projects in the MAGIC subregion: Stormwater Bylaw and Regulation development
in Sudbury, Economic Development in Littleton, Route 85 Corridor Study in
Hudson and Marlborough, and Pre-Disaster Mitigation Plans for all the MAGIC
towns.

North Shore Task Force (NSTF)
Beverly, Danvers, Essex, Hamilton, Gloucester, Ipswich, Manchester by the Sea,
Marblehead, Middleton, Nahant, Peabody, Rockport, Salem, Swampscott,
Topsfield, Wenham

During 2008, the North Shore Task Force took part in a variety of activities,
including the following:

            Reviewed and offered input into a variety of regional transportation
             programs, including the Transportation Improvement Program, the
             Unified Planning and Work Program and the Regional Transportation
             Plan, as well as opportunities to participate in Transportation Demand
             Management and Suburban Mobility programs.
            Evaluated the new Smart Growth/Smart Energy Toolkit, looking
             particularly at how Traditional Neighborhood planning techniques can
             be successfully used on the North Shore.
            Continued to enthusiastically engage with the MetroFuture regional
             planning and initial implementation process.
            Hosted a workshop on the MAPC/MA R.P.A. produced “Best
             Practices Model for Streamlined Local Permitting, a collaborative
             effort involving input from the twelve Massachusetts Regional
             Planning Agencies.
            Heard a presentation on the evolving Land Use Partnership Act and
             offered comments to the MAPC Legislative Committee on the
             continuing effort to reform
             M.G.L 40 A.
            Participated in the Smart Parking Toolkit workshop on how to create
             and implement new parking strategies for North Shore communities.




                                       179
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


           Hosted a Hazardous Materials 101 presentation in which a certified
            Hazardous Materials Manager discussed how planning, public health,
            and building departments can deal with the threats and management
            issues posed by hazardous materials as they impact land use planning,
            water supply and site re-use.
           Collaborated with the Town of Ipswich and the Department of
            Conservation and Recreation (DCR) to co-host a site visit to
            Partridgeberry Place, a model Low Impact Development, clustered
            subdivision development in Ipswich.
           Reviewed on-going municipal issues using Community Exchange at
            each meeting.
           Introduced North Shore communities to GIS Pictometry update
            opportunities and continued to provide ongoing GIS technical and
            mapping assistance.
           Worked with the MA Housing Partnership and the Citizens’ Housing
            and Planning Association (CHAPA) to give a presentation on home
            ownership, looking at North Shore housing challenges and
            opportunities within the 2008 economic downswing.
           Collaborated with the MA Department of Housing and Community
            Development (DHCD), and the Town of Ipswich to co-host a
            workshop on innovative methods on how to effectively survey and
            retain downtown businesses in both towns and small cities.
           Heard monthly updates from the MAPC Legislative Committee and
            offered comments to the Committee on legislation pertinent to North
            Shore communities.

North Suburban Planning Council (NSPC)
Burlington, Lynnfield, North Reading, Reading, Stoneham, Wakefield, Wilmington,
Winchester, Woburn

The North Suburban Planning Council began 2008 with several transportation
related topics including a presentation on the MAPC Parking Tool Kit and a
discussion of the TIP and the UPWP. The February meeting was focused on an
overview of best management practices for streamlined local permitting as well as
zoning reform.
The TIP and UPWP were discussed over the course of several meetings and NSPC
prepared review letters on both of those documents.




                                      180
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


The April meeting was a special region workshop devoted to stormwater
management and low impact development. This meeting included case studies as
well as information on bylaws.

In May the Central Transportation Planning Staff (CTPS) held a Walkable
Communities workshop in Stoneham. This workshop was well-attended and
included a walk of several blocks in Stoneham center to illustrate common issues
for pedestrian safety. Upon returning to town hall, the participants worked together
in groups to develop solutions to the issues just illustrated.

In July NSPC made a site visit to the Residences at Martins Brook which is the first
phase of the 40R development on the former JT Berry site in Wilmington and North
Reading. The project developers presented an overview of the development and the
group walked the site to view some of the special site features and amenities.

The September meeting was devoted to a presentation by the Census Bureau on the
early activities in preparation for the 2010 Census. A particular emphasis of this
meeting was the importance of forming Complete Count Committees in each
municipality.

In October NSPC learned about the Regional Pedestrian Plan and the bike rack
program. There was also a discussion about broadening participation in the
subregion. The year ended with a discussion about the guidelines for the current
round of District Local Technical Assistance grants and the availability of new
oblique aerial imagery.

South Shore Coalition (SSC)
Braintree, Cohasset, Duxbury, Hanover, Hingham, Holbrook, Hull, Marshfield,
Norwell, Pembroke, Rockland, Scituate, Weymouth

The South Shore Coalition comprises representatives or appointees from the
Planning Board and Board of Selectmen or City Council from each of the member
municipalities. The Coalition is staffed by MAPC and the Chairman is Holbrook
Town Administrator Michael Yunits. The Coalition meets monthly to discuss
issues of mutual interest and to learn about MAPC activities and products.

The year 2008 began with a highly successful South Shore Forum in January, on the
topic of New Parking Strategies for Town and Village Centers. Over 60 residents
and municipal officials attended the forum to hear from parking experts and to
discuss application of innovative parking concepts on the South Shore. Since the




                                       181
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


forum, many cities and towns in the subregion have conducted studies or revised
their development controls to try out new concepts.
At subsequent meetings in 2008, participants discussed a variety of topics, including
the Patrick Administration’s Zoning Reform proposals; best practices for
streamlined permitting; the regional Suburban Mobility Program; transportation
funding priorities; and recommendations for MetroFuture, MAPC’s long-range
regional plan. Coalition staff also provided occasional technical assistance to city
and town planners and facilitated the preparation and submittal of two letters of
interest for the region’s Suburban Mobility program.

South West Advisory Planning Committee (SWAP)
Bellingham, Dover, Franklin, Hopkinton, Medway, Milford, Millis, Norfolk,
Sherborn, Wrentham

During 2008, the SWAP subregion municipal representatives continued to meet on
a regular basis to discuss and take action on issues of mutual interest from
community development planning to transportation. SWAP heard presentations on
the upcoming US Census, alternative parking management programs, alternative
growth designs promoted by the state’s Smart Growth tool kit, revisions to the
state’s storm-water regulations that will impact local communities, funding
opportunities forthcoming under the Green Communities Act, and potential
legislative changes to the state’s zoning act. SWAP was also informed about the
availability of free aerial photography for their towns, free bicycle racks, and free
trainings for municipal planners through MAPC.

SWAP provided input regarding an upcoming transportation study of Route 126
from Bellingham to Framingham. The Committee also held a lively discussion on
how communities can best use design review committees and guidelines to foster
appropriate development.

During the past year, the communities participating in the subregion were briefed on
grant opportunities, such as the District Local Technical Assistance fund and the
Suburban Mobility Program as well as the Commonwealth Capital
program. Subregional representatives also participated in MAPC’s MetroFuture
project, to develop a plan for the future of the greater Boston region. During 2008,
MAPC also completed our work with the Town of Millis to rezone a portion of the
western industrial zone along Route 109, assisted Norfolk in securing designation of
Priority Development site under the state’s 43D program, worked with the Sherborn
Planning Board to host a visioning session for the town center, and facilitated
discussions between Milford and MassHighway on a possible Park and Ride lot.




                                        182
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Three Rivers Interlocal Council (TRIC)
Canton, Dedham, Dover, Foxborough, Medfield, Milton, Needham, Norwood,
Randolph, Sharon, Stoughton, Walpole, Westwood

The Three Rivers Interlocal Council (TRIC) is comprised of thirteen communities
southwest of Boston. Taber Keally, Town of Milton, is the Chair. The purpose of
TRIC is to encourage cooperative action concerning growth and development. This
sub region includes the communities of Canton, Dedham, Dover, Foxborough,
Medfield, Milton, Needham, Norwood, Randolph, Sharon, Stoughton, Walpole, and
Westwood.
In 2008, TRIC) met monthly to discuss issues of inter-municipal significance.
Participants at TRIC meetings can include Local Council Representatives, town
planners, members of municipal Planning Boards, Town Administrators, and
Chambers of Commerce.

Presentations of significance at TRIC meetings in 2008 included zoning reform in
Massachusetts, input to the framework for the Land Use Partnership Act, the Smart
Growth/Smart Energy resources provided by the Commonwealth, the
Transportation Improvement Program, oblique aerial imagery and software
available to municipalities, the Commonwealth Capital application process, the I-
95, I-93, University Avenue & Dedham Street Interchanges Project , best practices
in Streamlined Local Permitting, Pharmaceuticals and Personal Care Products
(PCPP),      recommendations of the Massachusetts Transportation Finance
Commission, review of technical assistance programs targeted to municipalities and
provided by Massachusetts Department of Housing and Community Development
(DHCD), input to the Regional Pedestrian Plan and the Regional Bike Parking
Program, technical assistance in preparing proposals for the Suburban Mobility
Program, assistance in creating an inventory of open space and in preparing a
Regional Open Space Plan, discussion and technical assistance regarding the
District Local Technical Assistance (DLTA) grant program.

Current major growth and development issues of shared concern in these towns
include the potential for South Coast Rail construction and implementation to
negatively impact local economic development, the potential for South Coast Rail
construction to adversely impact privately held property, traffic congestion and
gridlock now occurring on municipal roads in peak travel hours, and a strong desire
to work cooperatively with the Commonwealth to institute assessment of
development impacts with a regional scope as opposed to assessment of impacts on
a project-by-project basis that has a focus on a single municipality.




                                       183
            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


MMLD pg 1




                     184
            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




MMLD Pg 2




                     185
            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




MMLD pg 3




                     186
            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




MMLD pg 4




                     187
            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


MMLD pg 5




                     188
            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


MMLD pg 6




                     189
            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


MMLD pg 7




                     190
            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


MMLD pg 8




                     191
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


        OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISSION

The old and historic districts commission (OHDC) is an all-volunteer body. The
objective of the OHDC is to determine the appropriateness of proposed change to
properties within the two districts. The determination of appropriateness includes
consideration of relationship to open spaces, volume, exterior fenestration,
consistency with surrounding structures, and materials of construction among
others. The commission meets on the first and third Tuesday of each month in
Abbott hall, 7:30 PM. Meetings are not held on holidays, or other municipal
exclusions.

Citizens may request a Certificate of Appropriateness regarding structures, visible
from public streets or ways within the districts by submitting an application, which
is available at the Selectman’s office in Abbot Hall. Content of applications
conform to the instructions and pamphlet available at the Selectman’s Office.
Content of an application will include at minimum, drawings, photographs, and plot
plans, which support the appropriateness of the proposed structure. Each
application is considered on a case-by-case basis. A public hearing may be
requested in which the applicant reviews the basis of an intended change or addition
of a structure within the districts. A second phase of public hearings gives affected
parties and abutters the opportunity to support or oppose the applicant’s intentions.
A public hearing is closed by a vote by the Commission to approve or deny the
application.

In 2008, the Commission held approximately one hundred and twenty five (125)
hearings including public hearings. The majority of applications were approved and
a Certificate of Appropriateness granted. Further analysis regarding approved,
denied, and/or modified is under analysis at this time and will be reported to the
Town in a subsequent communication. The commission is currently recruiting
others for positions on the Commission, and alternates.

The Commission wishes to thank Ms. Julia Bantly, who resigned, for her years of
service to the Commission as secretary. Julia set an example for volunteer service
and her input regarding many important Commission matters. The Commission
also thanks the Board of Selectman, and all departments, commissions and boards
who have provided support and substance to the Commission’s operations and
decisions. Thank you all for your support.

Respectfully Submitted: James M. Patrick, Chairman, Susan Bragdon, Thomas
Saltsman, Reed Cutting, Cheryl Boots, Karl Renney.




                                        192
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                 MARBLEHEAD PLANNING BOARD

The Planning Board is a five member elected board that generally meets on the
second and fourth Tuesday of each month in Abbot Hall. The Town Planner
oversees the board’s administrative process and provides technical assistance to
prospective applicants and interested parties seeking information.

One of the functions of the Planning Board is as a permit granting authority. The
Planning Board issues four types of permits: the Site Plan Approval Special Permit,
Wireless Communication Facility Special Permit, Incentive Zoning Special Permit
and Subdivision Control Approvals.

The Site Plan Approval Special Permit process is required for all nonresidential
structures over 700 square feet, all new construction and additions over 500 square
feet located within shoreline districts and any new subdivision resulting in three or
more lots. The Planning Board issued a total of fourteen site plan approval special
permits. Five for non residential construction, a new office building at 39 Atlantic
Avenue, a new pool house at Eastern Yacht Club at 42 Foster Street, a new club
house at Pleon Yacht Club 42 Foster Street, a new veterinarian clinic at 10 Ocean
Avenue and an addition to the Masonic Hall at 62 Pleasant Street. Eight special
permits for additions to single family structures within shoreline district at the
following addresses; 27 Pequot Road, 354 Atlantic Avenue, 452 Atlantic Avenue, 3
Kenneth Road, 22 Crowninshield Road, 22 Coolidge Road, 216 Ocean Avenue, 6
Faye Circle and one permit for the teardown and reconstruction of a single family
structure at 6 Harborview.

Planning Board issued two wireless communication special permits in 2008 for
antenna arrays at 25 Tower Way and 4 Community Road.

The Planning Board sponsored two articles at the 2008 Annual Town Meeting. One
article was to add an alternate member to the board and the other to amend the
zoning bylaw to prohibit land owners from using land abutting a private way as land
area. Both articles were adopted by town meeting. In addition, the planning board
sponsored a public hearing on two citizen zoning articles that were submitted for
placement on the warrant for the 2008 annual town meeting. One article sought to
rezone a single parcel of land from a single residence zone to a business zone. The
lot of land proposed for rezoning had a preexisting nonconforming business use on
it and the owner wished to expand the building. This article was not approved by the
Town meeting. This was the second attempt to pass this rezoning. The second
citizen article was drafted to regulate non wheeled residential storage containers.




                                        193
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


The Planning Board concluded that this article, although well intentioned, required
additional research and therefore the board recommended indefinite postponement.
Planning Board members served on a variety of boards and committees in 2008
including the Jim Bishop - Metropolitan Area Planning Council, Kurt James – Fair
Housing and Smart Growth Committee and Edward Nilsson on the Zoning Sub-
Committee.

The Planning Board thanks the Board of Appeals and Building Department for their
input on the Planning Board’s Zoning Subcommittee and in the coordination and
cooperation on various projects throughout the year.

Planning Board applications are processed in the Engineering Department by
Andrea Flaxer. The Town Engineer Douglas Saal provides technical assistance to
the board and to prospective applicants. The board thanks both Andrea and Doug
for their excellent work.

Philip Helmes, Chairman
James Bishop
Kurt James
Karl Johnson
Edward O. Nilsson
Rebecca Curran – Town Planner




                                       194
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                         POLICE DEPARTMENT

The Marblehead Police Department is pleased to submit to the citizens of
Marblehead our Annual Report for the year ending December 31, 2008.
This past year has been very busy for the Police Department with a total of 17,375
logged incidents requiring police response with 638 of those incidents involving
felonies. The Department had a total of 293 arrests including 46 for protective
custody. Department officers stopped 3,549 motor vehicles for various violations
and issued a total of 1,333 citations. There were a total of 215 reported motor
vehicle accidents in 2008. Officers issued 3,820 parking tickets during 2008. The
Department’s continued policy of strict motor vehicle law enforcement has resulted
in a highly visible police force which has contributed to low accident rates, no
motor vehicle fatalities and low crime rates in general. New equipment such as the
electronic speed monitoring trailer has allowed us to deploy a very visible reminder
to motorists as to their actual speed, having a positive effect on speed in targeted
areas.
This year, the Police Department saw no retirements. Nicholas Economou was
promoted to the rank of Temporary Lieutenant filling the position previously held
by Temporary Captain Mark Mills. A permanent Lieutenant will be promoted at the
same time that the Permanent Captain is promoted. Only one patrol officer was
hired in 2008. Officer Andrew Clark came to us as a transfer from the Medfield,
MA Police Department, with more than four years experience.
The Department applied for and received a Community policing Grant from the
State for $47,500. Unfortunately, that amount was reduced to $36,195 as a result of
State budget cuts. With this money, the Department will be continuing the very
successful Motorcycle unit as well as walking beats. The Marblehead Police
Department continues its safety and security programs through the donations made
to the Safety Awareness Fund and limited grants.
The Department would like to thank all the citizens of Marblehead for their
assistance and support over the past year.
I would also like to thank the officers and staff of the Police Department for their
dedication and professionalism in carrying out their duty throughout the year.
Respectfully Submitted,
Robert O. Picariello
Chief of Police

Police Department Personnel 2008:
Police Officers:
Chief Robert O. Picariello
Temporary Captain Mark D. Mills




                                       195
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Lieutenant David J. Millett
Lieutenant Matthew Freeman
Lieutenant Jonathan Lunt
Temporary Lieutenant Nicholas Economou
Sergeant Donald Decker
Sergeant Marion Keating
Sergeant Sean Sweeney
Sergeant Jason Conrad

Patrol Officers:
Arthur Buckley Jr.         Sean Brady
Paul J. A. Belyea          Charles Sinclair
Lori Knowles               Eric Osattin
Roy Ballard                Brendan Finnegan
David Ostrovitz            Michael Daigle
Christopher Gallo          Dennis DeFelice
Cary Gaynor                Adam Mastrangelo
Dean Peralta               Michael Everett
Christopher Adkerson       Richard Alex
Jason McDonald             Andrew Clark
Michael Roads

E-911 Dispatchers:
Supervisor Amy Gilliland
Scott Kaufman
Teresa Collins

Dispatchers (cont.):
Gregory Lapham
Matthew Lunt
Nicholas Michaud
Michael Economou

Senior Clerk:
Deborah Frongillo

Part Time Clerk:           General labor:
Alison Murray              Bartlett Sherman




                                       196
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Animal Control Division:
Animal Control officer Betsy Tufts
Assistant Laura Consigli
Assistant Diane Treadwell

Animal Inspector:
Isabel Lorenco

School Traffic Supervisors:
Paul Lemieux              Edith Chalifour
Anton Cohen               Betty Gatchell
John Spanks               Leonard Cormier
Warren Perry              Randi Warren
John O’Connell            Margaret Denis
Robin Reed                Marshall Young
Susan Page                Basil Rubin
Elizabeth Greely          Katherine Millett
Thomas Adams              Marjorie Mace
Tracy Tavis

                            ANIMAL CONTROL

Calls to the Police Station for Animal Control in 2008: 1,424

(These do not include calls made directly to the shelter or the Animal Control
Officer)

DOGS:
Impounded                  51
Returned to Owner          50
Released to Shelter        11
Adopted                    12
Euthanized                 0
Complaints                 163
Stray/Loose                295
Reported Missing           91
Bites
        To Person          12
        To Animal          5
Hit by Car                 9




                                        197
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Rescued                    1

CATS:
Reported Missing           112
Found                      52
Complaints About           8
Abandoned                  5
Adopted-
        Cats               117
        Kittens            34
Hit by Car                 21
Euthanized                 1
Other Animals Adopted      7

CITATIONS:
(These are issued after verbal and written warnings in most cases)

Failure to leash           84
Failure to License         42
Pooper Scooper              2

Beach/Park               14
Excessive Barking         8
Failure Vaccinate/Rabies 2

WILD LIFE:

Total Calls                1024
Bird Complaints            166
Marine Life                3
Raccoon                    165
Bat                        14
Coyote                     21
Fox                        59
Opossum                    12
Squirrel                   50
Other Animals              68
Road Kill                  96
Quarantines reported       73
Animal to Animal           54




                                        198
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Animal to Human            19

RABID, SICK, INJURED WILDLIFE EUTHENIZED:

Skunks                     3
Raccoons                   24
Birds                      5
Squirrels                  7
Woodchucks                 1
Opossum                    2
Bat                        1

All other orphaned, sick or injured wildlife were brought to a rehabilitator.

Our Animal Control office and shelter is located at 44 Village Street. I deeply
appreciate all the love and support, not to mention the countless hours, our
volunteers give 365 days a year.

The Atlantic Veterinary Hospital, owned and operated by Jeff Rockwell D.V.M.
continues to be our Town designated vet. Dr. Rockwell and his staff make
themselves available to us 24/7 for dogs and cats hit by cars as well as shelter
emergencies. The North Shore Animal Hospital in Lynn, owned by Dave Dunn
D.V.M. is our back up vet for after hour’s emergencies. It is vital to the operation
of our department knowing these facilities are available when we have a suffering
animal in our hands.

Wildlife still comes under the jurisdiction of the State Division of Fish and Wildlife.
With easy access to the internet, many people are now able to more easily research
all forms of wildlife and to educate themselves on their habits so as to coexist with
fewer issues.

The Town leash law remains in effect although we still receive numerous
complaints regarding its violation. With the number of dog bites to both humans
and other K-9’s it clearly reminds us how important strict adherence to the Towns
leash law becomes.

Although we have reduced facts to statistical numbers, many of these numbers
mean so much more. In many cases they represent the loss of a family member, or
the relief of being reunited with one, because that’s what our pets are, family




                                         199
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


members who brighten our lives and comfort us. I am sincerely blessed to have a
career that enables me to be a part of this.


Respectfully Submitted,

Betsy Tufts
Animal Control Officer




                                     200
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                 RECREATION, PARKS & FORESTY
The Recreation, Parks, and Forestry Commission submits this report for the year
ending December 31, 2008.

The Commission is made up of five residents who are elected annually at a general
Town election on the second Monday in May each year. The Commission’s
regularly scheduled meetings are held on the first and third Tuesday of each month
at 7:00 PM in the Community Center at 10 Humphrey Street. These meetings
consist of reports, the appearance of persons or groups on the agenda, the review of
correspondence submitted for consideration, discussions of plans and objectives,
and reviews of policies, rules, and regulations as needed. The Commission reviews
and approves the hiring of personnel when recommendations are presented.
Programs and budgets are reviewed by the Commission annually and they act as an
advocate with the Finance Committee and at Town Meeting. The Commission also
reviews and approves the fees and charges made for various uses and programs
concerning the department. The Commission has responsibility for overseeing the
programming, rental, and operation of the Community Center. Night and weekend
fees and rental charges are used in the Revolving Fund to contribute to the operating
and utility costs of the Community Center. The Commission relinquished
operational control back to the Selectmen of the Forestry Department on December
31, 2008 in anticipation of the retirement of Superintendent and Tree Warden Tom
Hamond in February 2009.

Fields and school athletic facility maintenance

The Department maintained the fields and was responsible for the field preparation,
including lines, for the following sports: High School (Varsity, Junior Varsity, and
Frosh): football, baseball, softball, lacrosse, soccer, and field hockey; Youth Sports
baseball and football; men’s softball and soccer, women’s softball, and co-ed
softball.

The school’s athletic fields continued to stretch labor, materials, and the perpetually
limited department funding thin to maintain and line them for school events. Paint
costs alone totaled over $7000.00 and took 2 full time maintenance staff to apply
and maintain during the seasons.

Spring required varsity school sports first (Seaside baseball, High School softball,
Middle School lacrosse and baseball), followed by the mid-April Youth Sports
through summer, adult softball through September, and varsity/JV soccer, field




                                         201
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


hockey, and football at the end of August. For the months of September, October,
and November, all fall varsity and junior varsity football, soccer, and field hockey
school and youth sports fields were maintained for soccer and football.

Spring 2008 again saw some early usage of fields that were too cold and wet which
caused unnecessary compaction and killed roots and crowns on dormant and tender
grass (especially bluegrass) which did not recover. Aeration, over seeding, and
fertilization at additional costs for labor and materials had to be increased and
delayed work in other areas.

The mowing and trimming of athletic fields is done on weekdays with school in
session due to extensive usage on afternoons, evenings, and weekends. Line
marking with latex paint and/or non-caustic chalk is also done while classes are
inside the schools. Mowing of properties began in early April and continued
through November on a five day per week schedule. Leaf cleanups ran November
and December, and spring cleanups ran March through May. Special playground
cedar mulch was purchased and added to all school and town playgrounds as needed
for safety surfacing to reduce the chance of injuries due to falls. The department
was unable to “manicure” the grounds at the Schools due to budget and manpower
limitations; plantings and mulch were added as time and materials allowed.

Budget and staff limitations, requests for extra work, and changes on short notice
from coaches and players remained a continual problem. Early spring and late fall
field scheduling depended on when fields were dormant, wet, frozen, or overused in
any one area. Turf damage had extended to a whole playing season in some cases
and could not be satisfactorily repaired without either closing the damaged field
completely and/or taking on substantial additional expenses for replacement
materials and overtime. Fall is the best time to do seeding and sod work on fields
but was frequently in conflict with the demands of the activities scheduled and the
department’s continual shortage of funds, materials, and manpower vs. those
demands.

In June conditions became normalized and the landscaping and horticultural
problems slowed down, allowing the department to begin fertilizing, aerating,
seeding and mowing.

Piper Field’s soil structural problems of compaction continued in spite of all the
aerating, fertilizing, and over-seeding done, and similar problems were found at the
Village School. The quote for remediation at the Village School is cost prohibitive.
The lower baseball field at the high school was reconstructed by TurfLinks with




                                       202
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


financial assistance from Marblehead Youth Baseball and still suffered from
overuse and abuse.

Organic fertilizer with corn gluten for weed control was used in early October on
public building grounds including Abbot Hall, the Library, the Community Center,
Memorial Park, Crocker Park, and the fronts of some elementary schools. Seeding
cannot be done when using weed control.

During the year a sports utilization group met at the Community Center with Sam
Ganglani and Linda Rice Collins acting as liaisons for the Commission. The group
kept communications and scheduling concerns open so the various town sports
teams and coaches could minimize conflicts and maximize usage.

Resident Karin Martin continued outstanding assistance at Memorial Park as part of
the Council on Aging’s program to pick up and clean the area on a daily basis. The
others who provided outstanding assistance as part of this program in other areas at
various times during the year were: Marge Mace at Redd’s Pond, Old Burial Hill,
and Fort Sewall, Carol Green at Devereux Beach, and Jim Zeiff and Fred Alling at
Fort Sewall and Crocker park assisting with keeping the dog waste bag stations
supplied.

All line marking, mowing, and field schedule changes were coordinated by Grounds
Foreman Peter James who assigned Bob Gillis and Pat Sylvester to the athletic field
marking. The efforts of Pete, Bob, and Pat earned kudos from the school
department for their efforts.

The parks maintenance expense budget was again level funded for fiscal year 2008
while material and delivery costs continued to increase. With these restrictions, and
the limited available seasonal maintenance staff, one of the park’s seven full time
employees was switched to a Tuesday – Saturday schedule and dedicated to trash
removal and restroom repairs and maintenance during the summer season.

The Commission receives numerous requests for fund raising and business use of
the Community Center and the parks. These requests must be approved by a vote of
the Commission as required in the Town By-laws. Among those approved were:

        At the community center:
              o The Chamber of Commerce’s Home and Garden Weekend Show.
              o The Board of Health Flu Shot Clinics.




                                        203
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


             o   The Marblehead Arrangers Garden Club Christmas plant and
                 arrangement sale during the Christmas Walk.
            o The Democratic Town Committee Caucus
            o Scouts
            o Marblehead Family fund “Touch a Truck”
            o Free seminars
       Shore Lea Nature Center:
            o The Massachusetts Audubon Society sponsored a camp program
                 during July with the staff from the Ipswich River Sanctuary
                 supervising.
       Devereux Beach and parking areas:
            o Senior Class Carnival.
            o The M.S. Walk in April.
            o The Boston Children’s Hospital “Cycle for Life” used the beach
                 to begin and end its fund raising bike ride.
            o Several other bicycle and road races to use the beach to begin and
                 end events.
       Gerry Playground:
            o The Republican Town Committee.
            o Several Cub Scout outings.
            o Class reunions
            o Eco Farm Co-operative Market from spring through fall.
       Other fields:
            o Boy Scout Troop 11 for the sale of Christmas trees at Gatchells
                 Playground.
            o The Y.M.C.A. fun run at Seaside Park and outdoor summer
                 programs at Orne, Gerry, and Hobbs Playgrounds for soccer and
                 T-ball programs.

Building and Comfort Station (restroom) Maintenance

In addition to the community center other buildings required more attention due to
increased demand. The department continuously maintained a workshop and
equipment storage at Devereux Beach, the garage on Vine Street, the cemetery
garage at Waterside, Gerry Playground garages and playground room storage, and
the Seaside Park grandstand storage for supplies only.

The department also maintained comfort stations (restrooms) at the following
locations: Chandler Hovey Park, Devereux Beach, Crocker Park, Fort Sewall,
Reynolds Playground, Gerry Playground, Gatchells Playground, and Shore Lea




                                      204
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Nature Center on a seasonal basis. Water & Sewer costs, electricity, cleaning
supplies, and paper goods all came from the department budget. $2000 was spent
for doggie bags for Chandler Hovey Park, Crocker Park, and Fort Sewall. Dogs are
prohibited from all athletic fields and children’s playgrounds; all other Parks require
dogs to be on a leash and dog waste is required by law to be disposed of in proper
safe receptacles designed for fecal waste disposal (not public trash barrels).

Capital improvements for buildings

The Seaside grandstand continued to be a target for numerous incidents of
vandalism, resulting in the department having to frequently conduct maintenance
and repairs to the facility. The bathrooms were made usable and are still slated to
be upgraded. A donation fund has been created at the Selectmen’s office to raise
funds for future repairs and upgrades.

Anticipated capital improvements

   Repairs and restroom remodeling at Crocker Park.
   Updated provisions for handicap access at Fort Sewall.
   Clean and repair the Vine Street garage facility for storage of seasonal
    equipment.
   Expand shared equipment storage & maintenance facilities at Waterside
    Cemetery

Leased Properties

The Devereux Beach Concession Stand was operated in 2008 by Mr. Paul Petersiel
doing business as “Lime Rickey’s” in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 30 with
permission of the Board of Selectmen and the Recreation & Parks Commission.

The Gerry Playground house (A.K.A the Stramski house) lease still remained
vacant. The Commission continued to seek usage of the facility compatible with
recreation & park programs and policies.

Equipment Replacement and Seasonal Staffing

The tree department received a new rack body truck in 2008. The ongoing problem
of finding reliable seasonal maintenance staff from April through November
continued as college students are only available during the summer school break
leaving us short staffed during spring and fall months when we needed them the




                                         205
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


most. This has resulted in the shifting of budget monies to allow for use of sub
contracting in some areas to meet the demands of grounds maintenance.

Facility & Grounds Landscape Maintenance Program

The Parks and Forestry staff was responsible for the landscape maintenance,
mowing, trimming of trees and shrubs, and removal of litter on the following
properties in 2008 (Note: “*” denotes athletic fields requiring continuous mowing,
lining, and reconditioning for the Town’s sports programs):

 Recreation, Parks, &        Cemetery & Historic
                                                            Public Landings:
 Forestry Properties:              Grounds:
   Castle Rock Park          Cressy Street Cemetery          Barnegat trash
 Chandler Hovey Park         Green Street Cemetery        Clark Landing trash
  Community Center           Hooper Tomb Cemetery           Cloutmans trash
     Crocker Park            Harris Street Cemetery      Commercial Street trash
   Devereux Beach           Old Burial Hill Cemetery       Parker Yard trash
      Fort Beach                  Redd’s Pond             Tucker Wharf Trash
                               Waterside Cemetery
     Fountain Park             (when requested by
                             Cemetery Department)
    Gerry Playground        School Dept. properties:     Other Public Grounds:
                               Beacon/Green Street
 * Gatchells Playground                                        Fort Sewall
                                     reserve
  * Hobbs Playground               Bell School             Gas House Beach
   * Orne Playground             Coffin School            Grace Oliver’s Beach
 * Reynolds Playground           Eveleth School              Red Steps Way
     * Seaside park               Gerry School           Fort Sewall turnaround
     Memorial Park               Glover School             Brookhouse Drive
                               * Marblehead High
 Devereux Beach garage                                    Gallison Avenue Way
                                     School
     Vine St. Garage          Lincoln Ave. reserve           Gatchells Green
                              * The Village Middle
                                                            Lovis Cove Beach
                                     School
                              * The Veterans Junior
                                  High School
                                                             Conservation
                            Other Public Building’s
         Other:                                            Commission Lands
                                  properties:
                                                           (As labor permits):




                                      206
                           MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                                                           Bicycle, Exercise, &
  All public shade trees            Abbot Hall
                                                            conservation trails
Traffic Islands (donated)        Abbot Library               Robinson Farm
 All Public litter barrels         Gun House             Shore Lea Nature Center
                               Mary Alley Building             Forest River
                                 OKO Building                Hawthorn Pond
                                Old Town House                Steer Swamp
                                 Powder House                Wyman Woods
                               Tower Way Grounds               Ware Pond

Winter and spring 2008 Recreation Programs

The department continued the successful ski program which took two busses with
5th to 12th graders and volunteer chaperones under the planning and supervision of
Recreation Supervisor Mike Lane to Attitash/Bear Peak in Bartlett, N.H. leaving at
6:00 AM on five Saturdays and returning at approximately 7:00 PM. The ski
program continued to be a popular youth program.

The department also continued to offer the family skating program at Salem State
College for two hours on Sunday afternoons from October through February, and
programs at the community center and other Town facilities including: An adult
boot camp; a Saturday morning Youth Basketball program; a winter pre-school
“indoor park”; after school programs including softball and lacrosse clinics, “Know
Atom” science classes, Lego workshops, piano lessons, and a new Girl’s Basketball
program for girls in grades 2 – 8. Evenings featured adult badminton on Tuesdays,
Wednesdays and Sundays and adult pickup volleyball on Mondays, and Thursdays.
Every second Thursday of each month offered a psychic session. Marblehead
Youth Badminton and Marblehead Youth Basketball also rented time in the gym for
their programs on weekday afternoons.

Mike Lane also organized the Yearly Christmas parade, the free Halloween
decorating contest, and the free “Talk with Santa” program.

Summer and fall 2008 Recreation Programs

The department continued providing numerous summer outdoor programs (with
rain locations provided) including the Gerry playground program (ages 5-7), and the
new Seaside Park program (ages 8-11) which replaced the old Reynolds and
Gatchells programs. Both programs offered an “extended day” option. Other
programs offered included: Field trips to Canobie Lake Park and Water Country;




                                       207
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


The Magician’s football, field hockey, basketball, baseball, and lacrosse clinics; the
Roger Day baseball clinic, and a Major League Soccer clinic at various fields
around town; Tennis lessons and Girl’s evening basketball at Seaside Park; youth
sailing classes at Gerry Playground; a soccer and badminton camp at both
Gatchells’ Green and the Community Center, and kayaking instruction at Riverhead
Beach. Indoor programs in summer and fall at the Community Center continued to
offer science classes, pet dog training, adult volleyball, psychic sessions, and piano
lessons.

Urban Forestry Program

Public shade trees and shrubs located on public ways are under the jurisdiction of
the Tree Warden and the four person tree crew. Long time Superintendent and Tree
Warden Tom Hamond announced his retirement for February 2009, resulting in the
Commission and the Selectmen agreeing to return operational control of the Tree
Department’s manpower, budget, and facilities back to the Selectmen as of
December 31, 2008 as outlined by the Mass General Law’s chapter 87.

Marblehead has many older trees, some that have lived past their expected maturity.
The department strives to identify and reduce tree hazards that may result in injuries
or damage to people or property and along public ways including the cemeteries,
parks, and school grounds.

The department received an excess of telephone calls from residents regarding tree
matters; those matters deemed as hazardous receive priority while routine pruning
and plantings were scheduled according to staff availability. Problems with tree
roots buckling sidewalks and fouling electrical wiring continued and calls have
shown a noted increase in the past year.

During 2008 an increase in trees removed after being evaluated as dangerous, dead
or dying by the department has been noted, especially Norway and Sugar Maples
which are noticeably declining around town. While replacement plantings of some
trees is ongoing, location, site conditions, and tree types have not in many cases
been conducive to trees being replanted in the same locations as the old trees since
they would become more of a liability than an asset.

There is still hope of updating the Town’s tree inventory which was left incomplete
in 1992 and is not in a G.I.S. compatible format. A tree inspection system that
breaks the town into quarters with one quarter being inspected per year using this
updated G.I.S. compatible tree inventory would be preferable. This system could be




                                        208
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


combined with sidewalk repair requests at the Highway Department when tree roots
cause sidewalk damage.

The department continued to work closely with the Marblehead Conservancy and
the Chamber of Commerce regarding 20/20 projects for the business district.

Marblehead again qualified for the National Tree City USA as designated by the
National Arbor Day Foundation and celebrated Arbor Day in conjunction with
Earth Day at the end of April.

The department purchases tree seedlings from the Massachusetts Tree Wardens and
Foresters Association. Approximately 400 seedlings were planted in open and
conservation areas by the Marblehead Conservancy and other volunteers including
the Boy and Girl Scouts and Charter School and Middle School student volunteers.

The volume of requests for tree removals and/or pruning reflects the need to
continue the strong working relationship with the Light Department, especially
when storms create tree emergencies.

Department Staff

We want to thank the Department’s employees for their dedication to our Town’s
natural resources and recreation opportunities. The following worked for the
Departments during the past year:
   R. T. Hamond, Department Superintendent and Tree Warden
   C. Michael Lane, Recreation Supervisor and Assistant Superintendent
   Ric Reynolds, Senior Clerk
   Peter R. James, Working Foreman/Building and Grounds
   Walter Leszczynski, Heavy Equipment Operator
   Robert Gillis, Parks Maintenance Craftsman
   Greg Snow, Maintenance Craftsman/Mechanic
   Reginald Berry, Mike Attridge, Mike Atkins, Brad Delisle, and Pat Sylvester,
    Maintenance/Groundskeepers.
   Douglas D. Gordon, Working Foreman/Tree Surgeon
   Ed Park and Art Beauchesne, Tree Climbers/Forestry Maintenance

There are many instructors who worked in the various recreation programs,
playground, and other leisure services within the department in the parks and at the
Community Center. Also, there were seasonal maintenance workers and caretakers
for the parks, and summer maintenance workers and lifeguards at Devereux Beach.




                                       209
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



The Commission would like to thank the staffs of the Highway, Health,
Harbormaster, Building, Schools, Finance, Municipal Light, Cemetery, Police, Fire,
and Water/Sewer Departments for their continued support and the Town
Administrator, Town Clerk’s, and Selectmen’s office for their assistance during the
past year.

Every year there are many who volunteer with maintenance and recreation
programs for the Town. The Commission wants to express its thanks on behalf of
all the residents who benefit from the countless hours volunteered, making
Marblehead a great place to live.

Respectfully submitted,


Derek Norcross, Chairman
Chip Osborne
Sam Ganglani
Linda Rice-Collins
Dave Rodgers

R. Thomas Hamond
Superintendent
Recreation, Parks, & Forestry
Town of Marblehead




                                       210
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



             SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES

The following work was completed for the year ending Dec 31, 2008:

Scales Sealed:                             42
Scales Condemned:                           0
Gasoline/Diesel pumps Sealed:               6
Gasoline/Diesel pumps NOT Sealed:           0
Scales Rechecked After Repairs              0
Consumer Complaints Investigated            0
Report Letter Written                       0
Apothecary Sets Sealed                      3


Respectfully submitted,


David C. Rodgers
Sealer




                                     211
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                       SHELLFISH CONSTABLES

Devereux, Tucker’s, and Goldthwait beaches were closed for the harvesting of surf
clams in September for a couple of reasons. The initial concern was the ever
lingering red tide algae and then a low level bacteria count caused closure to date.
The Board of Health continues to supply the MA Division of Marine Fisheries with
historical water quality reports. Submitting samples for frequent testing is the
responsibility of the Town and performed frequently in order to insure consistency.
There are more stringent guidelines when measuring bacteria levels for human
consumption then are require for swimming areas. While these consumption levels
are borderline and the water quality for swimming in these areas is very good. We
are also faced with budget reduction issues at the MA Division of Marine Fisheries
and will continue to work with them. The Board of Health has been and will
continue to address water quality issues at these three very important recreational
areas.

The clamming season in Marblehead is during the months of September through
April.

Monitoring diggers, checking water quality and testing of the clams is ongoing by
the MA Division of Marine Fisheries and local residents that have volunteered to
serve as Shellfish Constables. The Town Clerk and her staff have been very diligent
in processing the paperwork for the State and issuing licenses.

        Respectfully submitted,

        Wayne O. Attridge, Director of Public Health
        Chief Shellfish Constable

        Constables:
        Douglas Aikman
        John Gregory Attridge
        Raymond Bates Jr.
        Harry Christensen, Esq.
        David Donahue
        Deborah Fadden
        Jeffrey Flynn
        R. Thomas Hamond
        Douglas Percy
        Susan Hogan




                                       212
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



            TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION

The Marblehead Task Force Against Discrimination was formed by the Board of
Selectmen in August 1989 in response to the desecration of Temple Emanu-el and
the Jewish Community Center of the North Shore. Our town leaders, recognizing
that prejudice and bigotry are community-wide concerns, established the Task Force
to educate its citizens and to work to prevent hate crimes.

The committee, appointed yearly by the Marblehead Board of Selectmen, is co-
chaired by Helaine R. Hazlett and Rev. Anne Marie Hunter. The appointees include
members of the clergy, educators, students, the Marblehead Police Department, and
concerned citizens. There is currently a vacancy on the committee for an attorney.
The Task Force meets in open session throughout the year to discuss concerns
raised by the Board of Selectmen, the Marblehead Police Department, Task Force
members, and/or citizens.

During the past year, the Task Force responded to several incidents of desecration
and discrimination. Most of these incidents occurred in the form of graffiti. In
addition, the Task Force discussed examples of discrimination and stereotyping in
the media. The addition of Chief Robert Picariello of the Marblehead Police
Department has increased the Department’s proactive efforts to identify and report
incidents of discrimination town wide. Throughout the year, all incidents received
appropriate recognition and response by the Marblehead Police Department and the
Task Force.

Under the auspices of the Anti Defamation League’s No Place for Hate, founded
in 1999, Task Force Against Discrimination members participated in the annual
ADL North Shore Advisory Committee’s Interfaith Seder and the Annual Law Day
Forum.

The Task Force Against Discrimination will celebrate its 20th Anniversary during
2009. Celebratory events include a logo contest engaging Marblehead High School
Fine Arts students, and outreach to the Marblehead clergy, Board of Selectman, and
the community at large. Throughout the years, the Task Force’s mission has
remained consistent: to work toward a safe community that celebrates diversity,
where people of every race, faith, class, sexual orientation, physical ability, country
of origin, and ethnic background are welcomed. Marblehead is a place where
diversity is embraced and where discrimination will not be tolerated.




                                         213
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Respectfully submitted,

Helaine R. Hazlett
Reverend Anne Marie Hunter
Co-chairs

Melissa Aizanman
Rabbi Jonas Goldberg
Isabel Katzman
Mary Levine
Judy Luise
Harvey Michaels
Jay Morrison
Chief Robert Picariello
Barbara Schneider
Monica Tecca
Deacon John E. Whipple




                                   214
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                             VETERANS’ AGENT

I hereby submit my report as Veterans Agent, Flag Officer, Veterans Burial Officer,
and Veterans Graves Registration Officer for the year ending Dec 31, 2008.

My number one duty is to the Veterans of the Town of Marblehead and their
families. I continue to attend State and Federal training sessions and seminars to
remain updated in all aspects of Veterans Affairs.

Office records for 2007 indicate that five Veterans or their families filed for benefits
under Mass General Laws, Chapter 115. This chapter of the law provides assistance
to Veterans in need.

Requests for assistance in filing for Department of Veterans Affairs Benefits
(Federal) remained high. This office has encouraged enrollment in the VA
Healthcare System. Many Marblehead Veterans have taken advantage of this health
benefit, which includes obtaining daily prescription drugs for $8.00 per month for
each medication. Casket Flags and Grave Markers were the principal Death
Benefits filed for with the Department of Veterans Affairs.

A total of 76 Marblehead Veterans were laid to rest between Nov 11, 2007 and Nov
11, 2008. Seventy percent of these men and women were World War II Veterans.
As a town and country we have an obligation to this generation of Americans.
Service to our Veterans and their families remains the most important goal of this
office.

I would like to thank Chaplain Lyman Rollins VFW Post 2005, the American
Legion Post 32, and the US Submarine Veterans, Marblehead Base for their
assistance in the affairs of this office in 2008. I would also like to thank
Marbleheader Karen Martin for her work in Memorial Park.


Respectfully submitted,

David C Rodgers, Veterans Agent




                                         215
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                WATER AND SEWER COMMISSION

The Marblehead Water and Commission is pleased to submit its report for calendar
year 2008. In the past year our staff has completed many tasks as well as
commenced the engineering on many new improvements to take place in the future.

Over the past year, the Water Department has continued with all of its annual
maintenance and inspections including system flushing, hydrant inspection, painting
and replacement, water quality testing and backflow inspection, water meter
reading, replacement and the addition of radio reading devices. Other programs
performed also include leak detection and addressing customer complaints, water
main breaks and valve replacements were also completed by our crews.

No major water projects were performed by the Department in 2008. However, in
April of 2009 the final phase of the water main replacement on Harbor Ave. will be
started. The Department continues to install radio read water meters with good
progress being made. Our new computer operated telemetering system (SCADA) is
now fully functional and is able to continuously monitor all the important
parameters, as well as being able to automatically adjust pumps to maintain
appropriate pressures to the Town.

The Sewer Department has continued its annual maintenance program. This
includes the daily inspection of its 28 sewer pump stations. Other maintenance
includes line cleaning, root treatment and inspection of over 100 miles of sewer
mains, as well as over 3,000 manholes.

During the summer of 2008, the Sewer Department completed the replacement of
the May St. pump station. The Department has also completed another phase of
televised sewer line inspections. There is only one more phase to be completed in
2009.

The Storm Drain Department has continued to maintain the over 2,000 catch basins
throughout town. Major work was performed in the Robert Rd. and Carna Rd. area,
Seaview Ave., Lawrence Drive and Green St. playground. Many other areas have
had repairs to existing structures, or may have had inlet capacity increased. In
November and early December, all catch basins were cleared of debris and
inspected.




                                       216
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Our office staff has once again been busy processing over 30,000 bills, while
collecting over $7,000,000 in revenue. Other office duties include maintaining
records to house connections cards, construction planning, scheduling
appointments, providing information to hundreds of customers, and addressing
mark out requests.

The Commission wishes John Belanger and Jean MacAskill many happy years of
retirement. We also wish to recognize the new members of our staff Peter Dorney,
Michael Atkins and Susan Gamage.

Finally, we would like to thank all the Town Departments and our own employees
for another successful year of service to the Town.


Respectfully submitted,

Dana E. Snow
Superintendent


Marblehead Water and Sewer Commission
F. Carlton Siegel, P. E., Chairman
Emerson F. Brown, Vice Chairman
Wilbur E. Bassett, P. E.
Bradford N. Freeman
John P. Doane
Telephone:         (781) 631-0102
FAX Number: (781) 631-2670

Dana E. Snow                               Charles R. McCollum
Superintendent                             Assistant Superintendent

Water Department Employees:                Sewer Department Employees:
William Haskell, Spec. Labor III           Mark Fulton, Spec. Labor III
Gregory Burt, Water Tech.                  James Johnson, Mech. Pipefitter II
John Bradshaw, Mech. Pipefit.              Jonathan Morley,Mech.TV Spec.
Michael Marsters, Mech. Pipefit.           Brian Conrad, Mech Pipfitter
David Cameron, Hvy. Eq. Op.                Robert Landry, Mech. Pipefit.
Corey Smith, Spec. Labor I                 Eric Hildonen, Hvy. Eq. Op.
Matthew Thibault, Spec. Labor I            Stephen Hull, Spec. Labor I




                                     217
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Office Employees:                        Drain Department Employees:
Linda Matthews, Office Mgr.              Kevin Wilson, Spec. Labor III
Krissey Regan, Billing Tech.             William Larios, Hvy. Eq. Op.
Susan Gamage, Special Clerk


                WATER DEPARTMENT REPORT

1.      Water Breaks                             10
2.      Damaged Hydrants Repaired or Replaced    15
3.      New Water Services and Renewals          14
4.      Inside Valves Replaced                   20
5.      New Water Mains or Extensions            1
6.      Water Services Repaired                  9
7.      New Sprinkler Lines Added                0
8.      Frozen Water Meters                      13
9.      Hydrants Painted                         200
10.     Trouble Calls                            12


                SEWER DEPARTMENT REPORT

1.      Sewer Lines Cleaned                      30,786 Ft.
2.      Drain Lines Cleaned                       9,368 Ft.
3.      Wet Wells Cleaned/H2o Used           34/17,000 Gal.
4.      Total Water Used From Lines l, 2 & 3    99,671 Gal.
5.      Vacuum Dig Repairs                          13
6.      Lines Televised – Sewer                     500 Ft.
7.      Service Repaired – Permits                   20
8.      New Services – Permits                       26
9.      Construction Repairs                          2
10.     Manholes Repaired                            25
11.     Pumping Stations Maintained & Repaired       28
        Repairs made include but not limited to overhauling/replacement of
        compressors, sump pumps, drive couplings, generators, and computer
        electronic parts.

        New May St. pump station. Major improvement over old station, highly
        efficient.




                                   218
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



12.    Vehicles Maintained                             23
        New high velocity sewer cleaner purchased, traded in 1988 cleaning truck
        and overhauled 10 year old velocity machine for the purpose of vacuum
        excavation.
13.     Dig Safe Mark Outs                            958
14.     Oil Spills Into Sanitary Sewer                  0
15.    Footage of Sewer Lines Treated for Roots    9,326 Ft.


                  DRAIN DEPARTMENT REPORT

1.      Catch Basins Repaired                            34
2.      New Catch Basins                                 6
3.      New Manholes                                     3
4.      Sump Pump Connections                            11
Carna Rd. from Robert Rd. to Lafayette St., 2 catch basins, 1 double catch basin,
1 manhole, 300 feet of 10” PVC pipe, and 75 feet of 8” PVC pipe.

Lawrence Dr. #6 to Atlantic Ave., 2 catch basins and 1 manhole, 150 feet of
12” PVC pipe, and 30 feet of 8” PVC pipe.

Madison Rd. #3 to Greystone Rd.-sump pump connection and new catch basin, 150
feet of 4” PVC pipe.

Nanepashemet St. #11-connected catch basin to manhole with 30 feet of 12” PVC
pipe.

Pleasant St. #81 replaced 30 feet of culvert with 10” PVC pipe.


                   SOUTH ESSEX SEWERAGE DISTRICT

As the Town’s representative to the South Essex Sewerage District (SESD), I am
pleased to submit the following report for calendar year 2008.

As in the past couple of years, the treatment plant has performed very well. Our
personnel have continued the efforts to fine tune all facets of the operation. This
work has helped us to provide the best possible treatment at the lowest cost to the
ratepayers.




                                        219
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



The Sewerage District is currently exploring the possibilities of utilizing wind
power, as well as co-generation to provide some of our own energy for our facility.

At this time, I wish to recognize all of the employees at SESD and commend them
for a very productive and successful year.

As always, we are pleased to answer any questions as they relate to the operation of
the SESD facility. I feel very proud to be a part of this operation, and look forward
to the continued operation of this excellent, clean safe and efficient facility.


Respectfully submitted,


Dana E. Snow
SESD Representative




                                        220
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Prepared by: Brian McNamee
1/14/09
Treasurer SESD


REVENUE             Method of            %            Amount       SESD
DESCRIPTION         Apportionment        TOTAL                     Total
Assessment          FY08 Budgeted          8.09%      2,108,462     26,075,455
Revenue             Apportionment
Member Refunds      Actual                    0.00%            0   (2,550,000)
Paid
Chemical            District                  8.70%     15,574        179,099
Reimbursements      Apportions
Sewer Rate Relief   Fixed Amount              7.60%     51,330        675,249
                    Budgeted for
                    Marblehead
                    Utilization
                    Balance
                    Apportioned
                    based on Appor.
                    Agree
Septage Revenue     District                  7.97%     18,338        230,134
                    Apportions
MWPAT Loan          Based on Cost             7.96%    664,070       8,347,646
Subsidy             Apportionment
                    Agreements
Interest Income,    Actual & District         9.35%     92,644        990,629
Investment          Apportions
Income              Based on
                    Average
                    Monthly UFB
                    Balance
Misc. Rev. &        Actual                    8.72%      8,333         95,552
Other Income
Total Revenues                            8.69%       2,958,751     34,043,764
Expenses            Method of            % Total       Amount        SESD
Description         Apportionment                                     Total
O & M 2000          Based on % of             0.00%            0       142,068




                                        221
              MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


             Flow
O & M 3000   Based on % of          0.00%        0     236,069
             Flow
O & M 4000   Based on % of          0.00%        0      30,981
             Flow
O & M 5000   Based on % of          0.00%        0     437,300
             Flow
O & M 5001   Based on % of          0.00%        0           0
             Flow
O & M 6000   Based on % of          8.25%    36,866    446,781
             Flow
O & M 6001   Based on % of          0.00%        0           0
             Flow
O & M 7000   Based on % of          8.27%   282,817   3,419,798
             Flow 3 yr Avg.
             Flow & Solids
O & M 7001   Based on % of          0.00%        0           0
             Flow 3 yr Avg.
             Flow & Solids
O & M 7050   Based on Cost          0.00%        0           0
             Apportionment
             Agreements
O & M 7100   Based on % of          0.00%        0      10,122
             Flow
O & M 7200   Based on % of          0.00%        0       8,595
             Flow
O & M 7300   Based on % of     100.00%        3,606      3,606
             Flow
O & M 7400   Based on % of          0.00%        0      20,122
             Flow
O & M 7500   Based on % of          0.00%        0      10,686
             Flow
O & M 7600   Based on % of          0.00%        0      26,818
             Flow
O & M 7601   Based on % of          0.00%        0           0
             Flow
O & M 8010   Based on % of          8.27%   112,702   1,362,779
             Flow 3 yr Avg.
             Flow & Solids




                              222
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


O & M 8011       Based on % of          0.00%        0           0
                 Flow 3 yr Avg.
                 Flow & Solids
O & M 8020       Based on % of          7.52%   160,851   2,139,091
                 Flow 3 yr Avg.
                 Flow & Solids
O & M 8021       Based on % of          0.00%        0           0
                 Flow 3 yr Avg.
                 Flow & Solids
O & M 8030       Based on % of          8.25%    30,761    372,793
                 Flow 3 yr Avg.
                 Flow & Solids
O & M 8031       Based on % of          0.00%        0           0
                 Flow 3 yr Avg.
                 Flow & Solids
O & M 8040       Based on % of          9.31%   162,260   1,743,170
                 BOD
O & M 8041       Based on % of          0.00%        0           0
                 BOD
O & M 8060       Based on               8.28%   298,284   3,602,772
                 Weighted % of
                 BOD/TSS
O & M 8061       Based on               0.00%        0           0
                 Weighted % of
                 BOD/TSS
O & M 9000       Based on % of     100.00%      142,466    142,466
                 Flow
Special          Actual                 0.00%        0           0
Assessment
Principal-Long   Based on Cost          7.62%   577,531   7,580,501
Term             Apportionment
                 Agreements
Interest-Long    Based on Cost          7.07%   190,917   2,700,971
Term             Apportionment
                 Agreements
MWPAT Loan       Based on Cost          7.96%   664,070   8,347,646
Subsidy          Apportionment
                 Agreements




                                  223
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


MWPAT               Based on Cost           7.97%     12,239      153,469
Administrative      Apportionment
Fees                Agreements
Interest-Short      Based on Cost           0.00%          0            0
Term                Apportionment
                    Agreements
Lieu of Taxes       Based on Cost       11.25%        56,266      500,000
                    Apportionment
                    Agreements
Intergovernmental   Based on Cost           0.00%          0            0
Fines               Apportionment
                    Agreements
Stabilization       Based on % of 3         0.00%          0            0
                    Yr Avg. of Flow
                    & Solids
Transfer to CPF's   Actual                  0.00%           0            0
Misc. Expense       Actual                  0.00%           0            0
Total Expenses                              8.17%   2,731,635   33,438,605
EXCESS (DEFICIENCY)                                   227,116
REVENUES OVER EXPENSES




                                      224
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                      ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS

The Zoning Board of Appeals met in regular bi-weekly session in 2008, conducting
87 advertised hearings, granting 80 applications, denying 1, and allowing 6 to
withdraw. The Board also conducted non-advertised administrative hearings for
minor modifications to previous special permits.

The Board members are: Barbara Shefftz, David Tubridy, Alan Lipkind, Karen
Tenenbaum and William R. Moriarty. The alternates are Christopher Casey,
Andrea Papanek, Betsy Burke-Jacobson and Paige Hintlian. Special thanks to David
Bennet for his service.

Assisting the Board were Andrea Flaxer, Town Engineer Doug Saal, Town Planner
Becky Curran, and the ever-solicitous Steve Ware who provided cheerful custodial
support.


Respectfully submitted,

William R. Moriarty
Chair




                                     225
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                         SCHOOL DEPARTMENT


                   MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE

                 Amy Drinker                Term Expires May, 2010
                James Dearborn              Term Expires May, 2009
                 Patricia Blackmer          Term Expires May, 2011
                Jonathan Lederman           Term Expires May, 2010
                Dick Nohelty                Term Expires May, 2011

                                ORGANIZATION
                         Chairperson       Amy Drinker
                         Vice-Chairperson James Dearborn
                         Secretary        Patricia Blackmer

                              REGULAR MEETINGS

The regular meetings of the School Committee are held in the High School Library
bi-monthly at 7:30 p.m. on the first and third Thursdays of the month except in July
and August.

                   MARBLEHEAD SCHOOLS ON THE WEB

Additional information about all Marblehead Public Schools programs can be found
on the internet site at: http://www.marblehead.com/schools

                        ADMISSIONS REQUIREMENTS

Entrance Age: Any child who will be six years of age on or before August 31 of that
school year may be admitted to the primary unit during the month of September. No
child ineligible for the primary unit in September shall be admitted during the
school year. The minimum age for entering the kindergarten shall be five years on
or before August 31 of that school year.

Children entering school for the first time are required to present a birth certificate,
a physical exam (including vision screening for distance visual acuity and
stereopsis) completed within 12 months prior to the date of school entry, and
documentation of immunizations. All children must be immunized against polio;
diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (DTaP); measles, mumps and rubella (MMR); varicella




                                         226
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


(chicken pox); and hepatitis B. Exemptions from immunizations are allowed under
Commonwealth of Massachusetts Law for either religious or medical reasons, both
of which require documentation.

                          SIGNALS FOR NO SCHOOL

No school announcements will be made over radio, television channels 4, 5 and 7,
on the Marblehead Public Schools website at http://www.marblehead.com/schools
as well as through email and phone messages with the AlertNow system.
Telephone calls should not be made to the Police or Fire Departments.

Since widely varying conditions in the various parts of Marblehead may make it
difficult to reach decisions about inclement weather conditions, parents are
requested to exercise their discretion in regard to their own children's attendance.

                            2007-08 SCHOOL HOURS

                   High School             7:55 a.m. to 2:37 p.m.
                   Middle School           8:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
                   Village School          8:00 a.m. to 2:15 p.m.
                   Glover, Gerry, Bell      8:15 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
                   Eveleth, Coffin         8:05 a.m. to 2:20 p.m.




                  SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS

         The Marblehead Public Schools continue to progress in our efforts to
improve student achievement at all grade levels. This past year, our MCAS
performance improved dramatically, especially at specific grade levels. We
performed in several areas within the top 10 school districts in the state. Beyond our
MCAS results, which still need improvement in certain areas, we continue to
improve with the delivery of our Instructional Focus which can be viewed on the
Superintendent’s web page (Marblehead.com/schools/). I extend my gratitude and
appreciation to our teachers, administrators and support staff for the educational
services they provide for the children of Marblehead everyday. This year’s budget is
planned using conservative anticipated state aid and local revenues. We have




                                         227
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


planned a “level services” budget for 2010, anticipating 15% less State aid and 10%
less local revenues from the Town of Marblehead.

The School District’s educational Vision is dedicated to helping all Marblehead
students develop their attitudes of inquisitiveness, creativity, truth seeking and
keenness of mind as they learn to master academic disciplines. We believe our
students will, as a result of the development of these attitudes, be able to solve
complex problems at higher levels of thinking. The development of the
aforementioned attitudes is what we refer to as developing Critical Spirit within our
students.

The 2010 budget proposal is $27,421,550, which is $722,114 more than the FY09
amount of $26,699,436. The net operations and maintenance budget increase, after
applying budget offsets for Circuit Breaker, Special Education tuition revenue and
other “revolving accounts,” is $722,114 which equals an increase of 2.7%. This
increase appears previous to the negotiation of a new contract with teachers and
support staff, but does include meeting current contractual obligations. Negotiations
for the successor contract are scheduled to begin on February 10, 2009.

Within the school budget, we reallocate funds as necessary in order to reinforce the
Marblehead Public Schools strategic “Instructional Focus”. The following are 2010
budget priorities:

CLASS SIZE MAINTAINED:
This FY10 budget is designed to protect current class size (student-teacher ratios). I
am not suggesting that we are experiencing optimal class sizes (20+/-2). We, in fact,
have larger than normal class sizes in certain areas such as the 5th grade, however,
this budget as presented is not intended to contribute to class size increases.

IMPLEMENTATION OF YEAR #3 OF OUR MPS INSTRUCTIONAL
FOCUS:
The implementation of Year #3 of the Instructional Focus resides primarily in the
areas of Professional Development, Exhibition Science (supplies for the Know
Atom Science program), International Baccalaureate registration and teacher
training at the high school as well as the introduction of Spanish to Grade 5 at the
Village School.

EXPANDING EARLY LITERACY IN READING & MATH:
Early Childhood literacy is addressed in order that student learning issues will be
diagnosed in our youngest students as early as possible so that best practice




                                        228
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


instruction can be prescribed to eliminate literacy problems. “Skillful Thinking”
cannot be practiced by students as long as literacy problems in reading and
mathematics persist. This budget, therefore, contains a PK-3 Reading Specialist
who will work with PK-3 teachers. Additional tutor hours are added at both the Bell
and Glover/Eveleth schools to assist primarily with reading and math literacy issues.
We are strengthening our English Language Learners program (ELL) to address the
needs of an increased number of non-English speaking students in our student body.
Finally, a supplemental math program, which will work collaboratively with our
“Everyday Math program,” is funded in this budget.

TECHNOLOGY:
The District’s technology program will receive much needed professional assistance
in this budget. An IT Technician will be added to assist staff with technology
maintenance and programming. A stipend is added as well to provide technology
instructional support. As in past years, an article related to technology appears on
this year’s warrant, and a recommendation will be made at Town Meeting.

TEACHER LEADERSHIP:
Teacher leadership stipend positions are expanded to our K-6 grade level to provide
instructional direction related to “the Focus” in the elementary grades. We will also
transfer a clerical position from the high school to a “Central Intake” position. This
position will consolidate all student registration, district data analysis and Special
Education personnel information. The data analysis can then be given to teacher
“Core & Intercore” teams as information used to diagnose student learning
problems. The teams are then able to prescribe specific learning strategies designed
to improve student achievement.

BUILDING MAINTENANCE:
An additional $25,000 is allocated to our building maintenance account to help
maintain our elementary schools. This amount is not adequate to fully address
capital repairs at our elementary schools, especially the Glover and Gerry Schools,
but it will help address priority needs at these two schools. As in past years, an
article related to building projects appears on this year’s warrant, and a
recommendation will be made at Town Meeting.

The additional programs and services in this budget will be paid for primarily
through staff retirements and budget reallocations. 2.5 professional staff and .5 FTE
support staff reductions will occur because of lower kindergarten enrollment, small
enrollment in selected high school classes and changes in program offerings. We are
hopeful that most impacted staff will be transferred to positions which historically




                                        229
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


open in the spring. We have made difficult budget decisions in order to maintain
forward momentum in the Marblehead Public Schools. We are especially motivated
to continue building the foundation necessary to propel our Instructional Focus
forward for the benefit of all Marblehead students.

Once again the School Committee and the Administration are committed to the
highest quality education for all Marblehead students within the economic realities
and parameters provided us by the Town of Marblehead. We will continue to be
good stewards of our resources, as we strive to reach our academic goals, including
putting all Marblehead students in the best possible position for success in the
future.

Respectively submitted,
Dr. G. Paul Dulac
Superintendent of Schools




                 MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE
                   Report to the Town, February, 2009

     As stated in past Town Reports, the School Committee’s primary
responsibilities are the hiring and supervision of the Superintendent of Schools, the
creation and oversight of school policy, and the review and approval of the school
district’s budget. Appropriate allocation of the school budget requires the School
Committee not only to balance the needs of individual students, schools, and
programs with the overall direction and priorities of the district, but to live within
the town’s financial means. By listening to the Superintendent, the district’s
educators, students, parents, and the Marblehead community, the School Committee
is able to draw on excellent resources in order to make sound and sustainable
decisions.

         The School Committee continues its support of Superintendent Dulac’s
focus on developing Critical Spirit in all students to ensure that they have the
necessary skills to pursue their goals in the competitive global market. This vision
distinguishes Marblehead as one of the top performing school districts in
Massachusetts. In the fall of 2008, the School Committee revised its vision and
mission statements to reflect Critical Spirit/Instructional Focus as the cornerstones




                                        230
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


for its decision-making guidelines. For additional information regarding Critical
Spirit and the Instructional Focus, please visit the district website at
Marblehead.com/schools/ and click on the “Superintendent” link in the left-hand
column.

Marblehead Public Schools Vision Statement: To develop in our students a
Critical Spirit: the mastery of disciplines, creativity, inquisitiveness, a truth-seeking
disposition and a keenness of mind.

Marblehead Public Schools Instructional Mission Statement: The Marblehead
Public Schools will implement the educational programs and classroom best-
practices outlined in the district’s Instructional Focus as the means to develop in all
Marblehead students the attitudes and dispositions of a Critical Spirit.

          The School Committee’s budget deliberations for FY10 are based on
maintaining level services and meeting current contractual obligations. The
Governor’s midyear FY09 cuts (January 2009) to local aid exacerbate the pressure
on both the town and school budgets. Across the state, municipalities face escalating
health insurance costs coupled with limited revenue streams, creating an austere
fiscal climate for collective bargaining. The current Marblehead teachers’ contract
expires in August, 2009. The School Committee’s goal is to keep educators’ salaries
competitive in order to attract and retain high caliber professionals while
maintaining quality educational services. A delicate balance must be found between
offering competitive salaries and living within the town’s financial means.

        The School Committee continues to address its building facility needs
through diligent maintenance and carefully planned capital projects, including the
following initiatives currently underway:

         1) The Village School: In May, 2008, the Massachusetts School Building
Authority (MSBA) qualified the $21.7M Village School repair project for up to
40% state reimbursement. After May Town Meeting approval and passage of a debt
exclusion override in June, 2008, the Village Building Oversight Committee
(VBOC) followed MSBA procedures and hired an architectural firm and an owner’s
project manager (OPM) in order to execute necessary drawings, schedule and
procurement documents in order to begin infrastructure repairs in February, 2009.
In December, 2008, the 6th grade was moved from the Village School to the Middle
School in order to vacate the Village School’s one-story wing, where Phase I
construction work will commence in February, 2009. Grades 4 and 5, along with
administrative and support staff offices, are currently housed in the Village School




                                          231
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


three-story wing, with exterior access to the gym section of the one-story building.
The extensive preparations to date have been successfully implemented thanks to
the dedicated efforts of school personnel working in concert with the VBOC,
chaired by volunteer Michael Rockett. For further information regarding the Village
project, please visit the district website at Marblehead.com/schools/ and click on the
“Village School Project” link.

2) Glover School: May 2008 Town Meeting approved funding for the Glover
School Feasibility Study which will identify the most financially responsible and
educationally sound solution to its facility needs. A $395,000 debt exclusion
override was passed in June, 2008. The MSBA requires Marblehead to hire an OPM
to act as a building expert for the district, as well as a designer, who will provide
architectural expertise to the district throughout the Feasibility Study phase. The
Glover School Building Committee, chaired by Patricia Blackmer of the School
Committee, is waiting for the MSBA to approve its OPM Request for Services
document (submitted in August 2008) so that design feasibility work can commence
as soon as possible. Given the priority placed on the Village School repair project,
the MSBA has asked Marblehead to be patient regarding the Glover Feasibility
Study.

3) Gerry School: This facility, now 103 years old, is aging gracefully but showing
its age nonetheless. Ongoing work is necessary to address securing exterior wood
components, re-pointing of portions of the brick façade, and fixing leaks in the slate
roof. The School Department will continue to be a responsible steward for this
school in anticipation of the time when the Gerry School can be submitted to the
MSBA as the district’s priority; then the collaborative process between the district
and the MSBA will identify the most financially responsible and educationally
sound solution to its facility needs.

4) Security Measures at all schools: In 2007, the School Committee appointed a
Security subcommittee to review security/safety measures at all of the district’s
schools. This subcommittee, chaired by Fire Chief Jason Gilliland, includes
representatives from the police and school departments as well as community
volunteers who have security expertise. Work to date has included review of school
exterior and interior locks, monitoring capabilities, and appropriate glass for interior
doors. Upgrading badge identification for school personnel and school visitors has
also been addressed. The Security subcommittee will continue to offer expertise to
the School Department in order to ensure that Marblehead’s public schools offer
students and staff a safe place in which to learn.




                                         232
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


The Marblehead School Committee is appreciative of the generosity of the many
parent groups, community members and local businesses that support our schools.
The Friends of Marblehead Public Schools continues to provide significant financial
support for innovative education through its grants. Other private foundations also
provide significant support to school programs. The School Committee remains
fully committed to providing a quality education for Marblehead’s students, while
delivering a fiscally responsible budget to the taxpayers. Public education is a
responsibility that challenges us to strive for excellence within our community’s
fiscal means, accessing state and federal funds whenever possible.

                                             Respectfully submitted,
                                             Amy Drinker, Chairman
                                             Marblehead School Committee



             MARBLEHEAD PUBLIC SCHOOLS PERSONNEL
                      ADMINISTRATION


Name                              Position                            Telephone
Dr. G. Paul Dulac                 Superintendent of Schools           639-3141
         Carmen Darisse           Administrative Assistant
Jonathan Goldfield                Business Manager                    639-3140
         Kerry O’Shaughnessy      Personnel Secretary
         Nancy Smith              Payroll Secretary
         Mary Valle               Bookkeeper
         Kathy Gallagher          Accounts Payable Secretary
Robert Bellucci          Dir. of Student Services and                 639-3148
                                  Program Accountability
         Joya Pezzuto             Secretary
John Ziergiebel          High School Principal                        639-3100
         Margo Ivers              Principal’s Secretary
Kathleen Duff            High School Assistant Principal              639-3100
Elizabeth Moore          Middle School Principal                      639-3120
         Donna Carey     Principal’s Secretary
Thomas Desjardins        Middle School Assistant Principal            639-3120
Elizabeth Bryant         Village School Principal, Interim            639-3159
         Melody Worthley          Principal’s Secretary
Danielle Cherry          Village School Assistant Principal           639-3159




                                       233
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Stephen Medeiros         Bell School Principal                  639-3170
         Gayle Louisos            Principal’s Secretary
Sean Satterfield         Coffin/Gerry Schools Principal         639-3180
         Linda Mills              Principal’s Secretary
Mary Devlin              Glover/Eveleth Schools Principal       639-3190
         Barbara Hawlena          Principal’s Secretary
Mike Plansky             Athletic Director                      639-3100
         Patricia Magee           Secretary
Kristina Kyles           METCO Coordinator                      639-3100
Beth Delforge            Fine Arts Curriculum Director          639-3100
Martha Bedrosian         K-12 Science Director                  639-3100
Michael Hanna            Curriculum Director Coordinator        639-3146
Sue Gravel               K-6 ELA & World Cultures Coordinator   639-3159
Kathy Comeau             Technology Director                    639-3100
Paula Dobrow             Lead Nurse                             639-3147
Richard Matthews         Director of Facilities                 639-3120
Philip Padulsky          Food Services Director                 639-3100
Karen Bourgeault         Grants Coordinator                     639-3148
Nancy Bryson             High School Sped Chairperson           639-3110
Janine Glabicky          Village & Middle Sped Chairperson      639-3165
Maureen Smith            K-4 Sped Chairperson                   639-3148
Nancy Charest            Early Childhood Coordinator            639-3170


                           FACULTY AND STAFF

Name                                      Current Assignment

Adams, Bethany                            PACE
Adams, Diana                              Custodian
Addis, David                              Math Sped Tutor
Agostini-Sheridan, Susan                  Reading Tutor
Allen, Cynthia                            Gr 4 Sped Para
Alling, Matthew                           Latin
Alves, Lisa                               Gr 4 Inclusion Para
Ambrose, Karen                            Gr 4/5 STEPS
Amsden, Valerie                           Tutor-TIDES
Anderson, Sharon                          Sped Tutor
Anderson, Martha                          Cafeteria




                                    234
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Anderson, Tracey                      Grade 4
Anderson, Robin                       Social Worker
Andrews, Lisa                         Integ. Kdg. Para
Andrews, Laura                        Supp Kdg Sped Tutor
Angelopolus, Adam                     Grade 6
Angrisano, Susan                      Para, Sped/Lunch
Anthony, Nancy                        Library Media Specialist
Antonucci, Deborah                    Sped, 7-8 Lang Based
Apostoloff, Kimberly                  Sped Para
Armstrong, Patricia                   Sped, Autism Specialist
Arnold, Ross                          Para, 1:1 Sped Therapeutic
Arnould, Carol                        Grade 2
Arthur, Elena                         Nurse
Audibert, Kathryn                     Cafeteria Helper
Avalon, Sarah                         Grade 7 Math
Babbitt, Diane                        Kindergarten
Bach, Janet                           Sped Integ. 2
Bailey, Marguerite                    Cafeteria
Baker, Amie                           Phys Ed
Balboni, Robert                       Custodian
Barrell, Maribeth                     Sped, Resource Room
Barrett, Melissa                      Reading Tutor
Barry, Judith                         Cafeteria
Barton, O'Malley                      Math
Bassila, Nicole                       Sped Tutor
Bates, Wendy                          Lunch Para
Battle, Jennifer                      Guidance Counselor
Beaulieu, Judith                      Art
Beckman, Rachel                       Grade 1
Beechwood, Justin                     Therapeutic Para
Berg, Robin                           Grade 2
Bergeron, Leroy                       Custodian, Painter/Custodian
Bergeron, Kerry                       Grade 2
Bernhardt, Terri                      Psychologist
Best, Kimberly                        Reading Tutor
Bethune, Mary Ann                     Secretary, HS Registrar
Bial, Lisa,                           Tutor, 1:1 Sped
Billings, Jennifer                    English
Binari, Michael                       Academic Skills Para
Bishop, Kathleen                      Sped Tutor




                                235
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Blake, Constance                      Grade 1
Blanchard, Gianna                     Grade 2
Blodgett, Amanda                      Grade 6 Math/Science
Bonneau, Nicole                       Social Worker
Bontaites, Anne                       Secretary, HS
Boroda, Stefan                        Sped Para
Bosken, Lindsay                       Grade 1 Supported
Bouchard, Jacqueline                  Tutor, Gr 10/11 Resource
Bourque, Michael                      Tutor, 1:1 Sped
Bowden, Denise                        Math, Gr 7
Bowen, Adam                           Grade 3
Bowen, Virginia                       Library Media Specialist
Bowler, Kathleen                      Grade 3
Boyce, Leslie                         Sped Para
Bradford, Sarah                       Tutor, 1:1 Sped
Brand, Rebecca                        Grade 4
Breed, Nancy                          Para, Kdg/Lunch
Breed, Mary                           Phys Ed
Brennan, Dana                         Grade 5 ELA/SS
Brenner-O'Sullivan, Nicole            Sped, STRIDES
Brinton, Robert                       Custodian
Broughton, Alison                     Sped Para
Browning, Erin                        Sped Para 1:1
Brunelle, Nicole                      Sped Tutor
Buckley Uhrich, Diana                 Nurse
Buganski, Melissa                     Spanish
Buono, Anna                           English
Buonopane, Kathy                      Computer Support Specialist
Buonopane, Susan                      Sped, 8 Inclusion
Bushman, Molly                        Tutor, Math
Butters, Bryan                        Social Studies
Buxbaum, Dawn                         Nurse
Byrne, Katherine                      Chemistry
Cacciola, Mario                       Social Studies
Calahan, Robin                        Para, Academic Skills
Callaghan, Tawny                      Science, Grade 7
Campbell, Pamela                      Sped Para
Carey, Cathy                          Sped Tutor
Carpenito, Nichole                    Art
Carrancho, Michelle                   FL French




                                236
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Carroll, Linda                      Para, Clerical
Castoldi, Catherine                 Grade 9 Resource Room
Cecere, Michael                     Phys Ed
Cefalo, Carla                       Health
Chacon, Fabio                       Custodian
Chalek, Wendy                       Tutor, Lang. Based
Chalifour, Edythe                   Cafeteria
Chavez, Jennifer                    Latin
Chaykowski, Christine               Guidance Counselor
Christensen, Henry                  Tech Ed
Church, David                       Maint, Plumb/Heating
Ciccone, Amy                        Para, Clerical
Clark, Lora                         Grade 4
Clayman, Sally                      Para, K/Lunch
Clements, Scott                     Custodian
Clough, Linda                       Sped Para 1:1 MC
Clough, Patrice                     English
Codkind, Bradley                    Physics/Robotics
Cohen, Donna                        Sped Tutor
Cohen, Craig                        Sped Tutor ABA
Colantuno, Claire                   Para, Sped/Lunch
Colby, Stephanie                    Library Media Specialist
Coleman, Laura                      Para, Sped/Lunch
Coleman, Rosalind                   Para, Sped/Lunch
Colfer, Robert                      Social Studies
Comeau, Ronald                      Maint, Electrician
Comins, Brenda                      Cafeteria
Conley, Karen                       Grade 3
Cook, Teresa                        Speech & Language
Cooney, Constance                   Grade 5
Costonis, Christina                 Grade 6
Cowan, Judith                       Tutor, Lang. Based
Coyle, Carolyn                      Grade 1
Criswell, Maryann                   English
Croke, Deborah                      ABA/Home Service Tutor
Cronin, Lenore                      Kindergarten
Crosby, Rosemary                    Nurse
Crowley, Brian                      Social Studies
Cruz, Claridalia                    Tutor, Acad. Skills
Culhane-Herman, Catherine           Nurse




                              237
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Cullen, Deborah                     Nurse
D'Amelio, Danielle                  Kindergarten
D'Amour, Eileen                     Music
Dana, Gregory                       Math
Darci, Maureen                      Kindergarten
Dartlay Rocco, Maura                Wellness
Davidson, Gail                      Cafeteria
Davis-Allan, Ann                    Sped, 7 Inclusion
Dawes, Elizabeth                    Sped, Acad Skills
Dawes, Edmund                       Science, Engineering
DeBerardinis, Debora                Physical Therapy Assistant
deBronkart, Lindsay                 Chemistry
DeFranco, Gloria                    Para, Sped/Lunch
Deiana, Dawna                       Grade 4 Inclusion
Delano, Judith                      Para, Lunch
Delman, Renee                       Kindergarten, Integrated
Denis, Margaret                     Cafeteria
Desjardins, Thomas                  Asst Principal .5/.5 K-8 Math CD
Devanney, Amanda                    Guidance Counselor
Dewing, Diane                       Cafeteria Helper
Dewing, James                       Custodian, Asst. Head
Dexter, Lesley                      Sped Tutor Inclusion
DiGiammarino, Jennifer              Tutor, Math
Dill, Estelle                       Academic Skills Teacher
Dillon, Robert                      English
Doane, Marilyn                      Para, Clerical
Dodge, Elizabeth                    Sped Tutor 1:1
Donovan McLeod, Patricia            Nurse
Douglass, James                     Custodian
Dow, Brian                          Art
Drummond, Ellen                     Grade 1
Duffy, Brianne                      Spanish
Duffy, Amy                          Grade 2
Duncan, Sharon                      Sped Para PACE
Eaton, Allison                      Guidance Counselor
Edwards, Kathleen                   Tech Ed/Family Consumer
Eisenhower, Kay                     Grade 8
Elterich, Kristen                   Psychologist
Emblidge, Jennifer                  Biology
Emond, Christine                    Sped Para




                              238
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Ericsson, Thomas                     Science, Biology
Erikson, Melissa                     Grade 3
Erskine, Kimberly                    Physical Therapist
Evans, Vanessa                       Spanish, .4
Fairbanks, Lee-Anne                  Grade 1
Fallon, Lois                         Secretary, Guidance
Fargo, Eric                          Phys Ed
Feins, Steve                         Social Studies
Feins, Robin                         English
Feraco, Nadine                       Sped
Ferris, Linda                        Para, Kdg/Lunch/ Bus
Ferris, Kathryn                      Band
Fine, Carol                          Grade 7 Sped Therapeutic
Finnegan, Jennifer                   Sped, Res Rm .5
Finn-Welch, Ellen                    Sped, Spch&Lang Therap
Fintonis, George                     Para, Special Education
Firth, John                          Sped Tutor
Fischer, Susan                       TIDES
Fishman, Lindsay                     Grade 5
Fitzgerald, Judith                   Cafeteria
Forero, Martha                       Custodian
Forward, Maura                       Grade 4
Frankel, Dara                        Tutor, Reading
Fraser, Holly                        Music
Frawley, Patricia                    Sped, PK-K SAILS
Freeto, June                         Cafeteria
Friedrich, Jennifer                  Chemistry
Futcher, Edward                      Math
Gallinelli, Robert                   Grade 8 Science
Galper, Michelle                     Sped Tutor
Garrett, Karen                       Tutor, Special Education
Garry, Benjamin                      Language Based
Garthe, Jane                         Tutor, Reading
Gaskell, Marian,                     Sped Tutor, Math
Gauthier, Allan                      Guidance Counselor
Gay, Betsy                           Kindergarten
Geary, Joan                          Science
Geraghty, Anne                       Sped, Spch&Lang Asst
Getz, Thomas                         Grade 5
Giardi, Michael                      Math




                               239
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Gilbert, Rebecca                    Sped, Inclusion
Gilligan, Amy                       Para, Clerical/Lunch
Goering, Kathryn                    Speech/Language, .5
Goodwin, Darlene                    Sped Para Gr 2
Goodwin, Josene                     Cafeteria
Gora, Diane                         Grade 1
Gray, Carol                         Grade 7
Graziano, Angela                    Grade 2
Greeley, Elizabeth                  Cafeteria
Greenberg, Mindi                    Spanish
Greenman, Mark                      Science, Chemistry/Physics
Gregware, Kimberly                  Para, Lunch
Griffin, Erika                      Guidance Counselor
Guerrido, Annelly                   Tutor, 1:1 Sped Math
Guider, F.                          Math
Gunter, Cassandra                   METCO Bus Monitor/Clerical
Gurman, Martha                      Spch & Lang Path .8
Guthartz, Randy                     Art
Guttadauro, Jae                     FL Spanish
Halks, Judith                       Library Media Specialist
Hall, Phyllis                       Cafeteria
Hall, Faith                         Grade 3
Halvorsen, Erik                     Permanent Substitute
Halvorsen, Alice                    Grade 6
Hamilton, Anne                      Para, METCO Clerical
Hamilton, Monica                    Sped Para
Hanifey, Patricia                   Para, Office
Hanlon, Susan                       Kindergarten
Hanson, Cara                        Music
Harmon, Paul                        English
Hart, Mary Ellen                    Literacy Academic Coach
Haskell, William                    Custodian
Hastings, Rebecca                   Para, K/Lunch
Healey, Mary                        Cafeteria
Heenan, Brian                       Science, Biology
Heller, Jonathan                    Grade 6
Herchenhahn, Mary                   Art, elementary, .8FTE
Herrick, Cheryl                     Sped, 9 Resource Room
Hicks, Patrick                      Sped, Inclusion
Higgins, Thomas                     English




                              240
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Hirshberg, Matthew                  Social Studies
Holbrook, Susan                     Sped Resource Room
Holtzman, Sally                     Para, Sped/Lunch
Hooks, Cynthia                      Grade 3
Hughes, Kenneth                     Custodian/Bus Driver
Hughes, Anna                        Tutor, Reading
Humphrey, Melissa                   Social Studies
Hyte, Alyson                        Para, Math/Science
Ingram, Casey                       Grade 3
Introini, Jessica                   Grade 4
Jackson, Jacklyn                    Cafeteria
Jalbert, Jean                       Custodian, Head
James, Lynda                        Grade 4
Jancsy, Immacula                    Permanent Substitute
Janock, Heidi                       Grade 2
Johnson, Beth                       Grade 2
Johnson, Carol                      Sped, LICSW
Johnston, Elisa                     Tutor, Inclusion
Jones, Richard                      Custodian
Jones, Bethan                       English
Jones-Tentendo, Marylyn             Para, Kdg./Lunch
Joyce, Megan                        Guidance Counselor
Joyce, Michael                      Permanent Substitute
Juncker, Henry                      Social Studies
Kakula, Cyril                       METCO Liaison
Kalfin, Gale                        Sped Grade 11 Resource
Kaltsas, Eleni                      Cafeteria
Kameras, Maria                      Technology, .5
Kamin, Shelley                      Sped Clerk
Kannally, Timothy                   Grade 4
Karns, Brigitte                     Grade 8
Kavanagh, Joan                      Sped. Lang Based
Keating, James                      Science, General
Kelley, Liam                        Custodian
Kennedy, Patricia                   Cafeteria
Keroack, Maria                      Tutor, ELL
Kintish, Debbie                     STEPS
Knight, Katherine                   Para, Kdg/Lunch
Knowlton, Nancy                     Sped Para
Kolsky, Robert                      Custodian, Nights




                              241
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Korodi, Nicole                        Grade 3
Kozlowski, John                       Sped Van Driver/Custodian
Kraft, Ali, Tutor                     Preschool Therapeutic
Kritikos, Alexis                      ACCESS Tutor
Kuszmar, Linda                        Para, Clerical
Lamby, Juanita                        Guidance Counselor
Land, Howard                          Bus Driver/Custodian
Landergan, Catherine                  Tech Ed
Landy, Eileen, Tutor                  Reading
Lane, Cortney                         Sped, Inclusion
Laroe, Daniel                         Grade 4
Lavender, Michael                     Phys Ed
Lavoie, Susan                         Reading Tutor
Lavoie, Scott                         Custodian
Leap, Jeanette                        Para, Kindergarten
LeBlanc, JoAnne                       Para, Clerical/Lunch
LeBlanc, Mary                         Grade 6
LeClerc, Mary                         Para, Clerical
LeFleur, Sandra                       Sped, Integrated Preschool
Legget, Donna                         Para, Clerical
Lehman, Karen                         Photography
Lemieux, Jody                         Tutor, Reading
Lemieux, Robert                       Custodian
Leslie, Margery                       Sped Tutor
Leverone, Amy                         Resource room Tutor
Levy, Steven                          Coach, Science, Homework
Little, Luana                         Grade 7
Lonergan, Barbara                     Para, 1:1 Sped/Lunch
Long, Glenn                           Custodian, Head
Lovely, Laura                         Grade 7
Luise, Judy                           Adjustment Counselor
Lydon, Maria                          Para, Kdg/Lunch
Mace, Jayne                           Para, Science Lab
Mace, Richard                         Custodian
Mack, Gail                            Academic Skills
Maddock, Pamela                       Social Studies
Magana, Elmer                         Spanish
Mandell, Elissa                       Sped Para 1:1
Maney, Martha                         Para, PreK
Margolis, Linda                       Grade 5




                                242
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Martin, Jermain                        METCO Academic Coach
Mason, Robert                          Custodian, Night
Masterson, Danielle                    Grade 6 ELA/SS
McCarthy, Elizabeth                    Para, Lunch
McEntee, Christine                     Para, K/Lunch
McGrath, Danielle                      Phys Ed
McGrath, Kristen                       Nurse
McGuinnes, Melissa                     Grade 1
McIntosh, John                         Phys Ed
McKeever, Charles                      Custodian, Head, Nights
McKie, Maryann                         Secretary
McLaughlin, Janice                     Cafeteria
McLean, Gordon                         Math
McMahon, Julie                         Grade 5
McMahon, Maura                         Grade 3
Mello, Rena                            Grade 5 Inclusion
Mellor, Margaret                       Para, Kdg/Lunch
Merrill, Melissa                       Tutor, Reading
Metheny, S. Jennifer                   Sped Para
Michaels, Lelia                        Grade 4
Michaud, Maria                         Para, Sped/Lunch
Miles, Mary                            Grade 6
Miller, Joan                           Sped, 7 Inclusion
Miller, Jennifer                       Grade 4 Inclusion
Millett, Michael                       Technology Network Manager
Millett, Katherine                     Cafeteria
Minigiello, MaryBeth                   Para, Kdg/Lunch
Monaco, Merel                          Sped Tutor, HS Academic Skills
Morneau, Albert                        Maint, General
Morong, Jon                            Grade 3
Moscaritolo, Sheryl                    Para, Lunch
Moses-Farmer, Barbara                  Secretary
Mullarkey, Tracie                      Sped Para TIDES
Murphy, Craig                          STEPS
Murphy, Philip                         Phys Ed
Murphy, Lisa                           Sped, Lang Based
Murray, Dawn                           Nurse
Nash, Laura                            Grade 5
Neilson, Paula                         Kindergarten
Nelson, Todd                           1:1 Access Tutor




                                 243
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Nesbitt, Tracy                         Reading Tutor
Neumann, Carol                         Math Tutor
Neville, Haley                         ABA Tutor
Newsome, Jeffrey                       Guidance Counselor
Nicosia, Jennifer                      Para, Lunch
Norman, Kristen                        Secretary, Student Activities
November, Donna                        Grade 2
Oestermeyer, Caroline                  English
Oliver, Shawnette                      Para, Sped/Lunch
Olson, Katie                           ACCESS Room Tutor
Onusseit, Dale                         Language Based Tutor
O'Reilly, Debora                       Science, Chemistry
Orlen, Gerald                          METCO Academic Coach
Orlen, Iris                            METCO Academic Coach
Page, Carolan                          Math Tutor
Page, Harriett                         Science, Chemistry
Page, Susan                            Para, Lunch
Park, Janice                           Occupational Therapy Asst.
Pasackow, Noah                         Grade 7 Social Studies
Pasquini, Monika                       Spanish
Payne, John                            Marine Technology
Perroni, Brenda                        Kindergarten
Peters, Evonne                         Tutor, ELL/Resource
Peterson, Valerie                      Music
Phillips, Raymond                      Custodian
Phillips, Tammy                        Tutor, Job Coach
Pierce, Karen                          Sped Integ 3
Pierce, Stephen                        Art
Pillsbury, Susan                       Sped, Spch&Lang Path
Pittore, Patrica                       Grade 2
Polan, Andrea                          French
Portnoy, Andrea                        METCO Academic Coach
Potvin, Richard                        Lunch Van Driver
Powell, Kathleen                       Reading Tutor
Price, Dawn                            Para, Lunch
Pruett, Elizabeth                      Grade 4
Pugh, Annie                            Grade 5
Purdin, Joy                            Grade 4
Queval, Pascale                        French
Quigley, Suzanne                       Sped Tutor




                                 244
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Quillen, Lisa                         Grade 1
Quinn, Janet                          Reading Tutor
Racki, James                          Custodian, Head
Raimer, Jennifer                      Reading Tutor
Raimo, Paulette                       Para, Preschool
Ranta, Mary Ellen                     Sped Tutor
Reardon, Meredith                     Guidance Counselor
Restaino, Gina                        Sped, ACCESS
Reulbach, Christina                   Tutor, Math/Lunch para
Reynolds, Katherine                   Science, Gr 8
Richards, James                       Custodian
Rivera, Hope                          Para, Sped/Lunch
Robels, Javier                        Custodian
Roberts, Kim                          Guidance Counselor
Roeder, Amanda                        Music
Roeser, Kathleen                      Reading Tutor
Rombach, Jeannie                      Sped Tutor
Rosenthal, Michele                    ELL Tutor
Ross, Killeen                         Grade 4
Rotman, Sandra                        Phys Ed
Rowe, Julie                           1:1 Sped Tutor
Rudloff, James                        Sped, HS Therapeutic
Rudzinski, Elizabeth                  Kindergarten, Integrated
Rumson, Janet                         Grade 5
Russett, Kristen                      French
Ryan, Micheline                       Math
Ryan, Connor                          English
Ryan, Nicole                          Art
Rydzewski, Kenneth                    Sped, 12 Resource Room
Salkins, Laura                        Grade 2
Sands, Klara                          Latin
Sawyer, Thomas                        Therapeutic Tutor
Schaffnit, James                      Grade 7
Schiller, Barbara                     Reading Tutor
Schwartz, Maria                       Grade 1
Scott, Anne                           Nurse
Scribner, Deborah                     Custodian
Scribner, Robert                      Custodian, Head
Seiden, Gloria                        1:1 Sped Para
Sevinor, Meryl                        Kindergarten




                                245
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Sexton, Erica                         Grade 4
Shapiro, Mary                         Grade 1
Shatford, Susan                       Sped Tutor
Shaw, Francesca                       Guidance Counselor
Shaw, Sally                           Para, Preschool/Lunch
Sheridan, Peter                       Shop, Carpentry
Sheridan, Frances                     Kindergarten
Sherlock, Kathleen                    Access Program
Sherwood, Christine                   Math
Shevory, Sally                        Grade 3
Sholds, Kristinia                     English
Shull, Williard                       Grade 7
Simard, Christine                     Cafeteria/Sped Van Monitor
Skalaban, Janice                      Business
Slattery, Margaret                    Sped Admin Assistant
Slattery-Sumner, Marjorie             Cafeteria
Slepian, Jane                         Para, Sped/Lunch
Sliney, Candice                       Spanish
Smith, Kathryn                        Grade 8
Smith, Karen                          Reading Tutor
Smith, Andrew                         Math
Smith, Nancy                          Grade 3
Smullin, Rachel                       Sped, TIDES
Snow, Lyn                             ABA
Softic, Gavin                         Sped Para
Soghomonian, Allison                  Library Media Specialist
Sojka, Szymon                         Sped Tutor
Sommerstein, Ann                      ACCESS Para
Song, Kendra                          Math
Soucy, Wendy                          Senior Project Coord.

Spear, Susan                          TIDES Tutor
Spillane, Carol                       Kindergarten
Steadman, Joanne                      Phys Ed
Steinberg, Sari                       Spch & Lang Path
Stevens, Caron                        Para, Sped/Lunch
Stoddard, Joseph                      Music
Stoll, Gayle                          Spch & Lang Path
Stomatuk, Joan                        Business
Strasser, Rebecca                     Music




                                246
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Stuart, Bridget                      Sped Tutor
Sugarman, Lisa                       Para, Kdg/Lunch
Sullivan, Sarah                      Language Based
Sumner, Gregory                      Custodian
Swain, Lisa                          COTA
Sweazy, Kilmer                       Instructional Tech Specialist
Tangney, Matthew                     Social Studies
Taranto, Beth                        Sped Para
Tardiff, Paula                       Grade 2
Tarmey, Mark                         Sped Tutor Math
Tatirosian, Lynne                    METCO Academic Coach
Tatterfield, Martha                  Cafeteria
Taverna-Dennis, Barbara              Sped, Mod Sped Nds
Tejada, Lynne                        Cafeteria
Tentindo, Paul                       Psychologist
Terpos, Katherine                    Health
Thomas, Barbara                      Kindergarten
Thompson, Cynthia                    Clerical Fine Arts Para
Thompson, Denise                     Sped Para
Thorne, Nancy                        Math Tutor
Thornton, Susan                      Academic Skills
Tirelli, Robert                      Music
Tobin, Catherine                     Para, Kdg/Lunch
Trainor, Stephanie                   Grade 6
Traynor, Veronica                    Sped Para 1:1
Treff, Maria                         Sped Tutor ACCESS
Trunfio, Jane                        Physical Therapist
Tully, Frances                       Grade 1
Turcotte, Lindsay                    Grade 3
Venezia, Stephen                     Social Studies
Volpe, Stephen                       Grade 5
Vona, Mark                           Math
Wachtel, Kyle                        Phys Ed
Wahtera, Philo                       Grade 2
Wales, Susan                         Sped
Wallace, Barbara                     TIDES Tutor
Ward, Laura                          Gr 5
Warren, Kenneth                      Music
Webster, Leigh                       1:1 ABA Tutor
Weiss, Laura                         Resource .5/Preschool, .5




                               247
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Wentzell, Jean                               Sped Gr 8 Inclusion
Wicks, Celine                                Grade 6
Wilkens, John                                Social Studies
Willard, Marilyn                             Sped Para
Williams, Mark                               Behavior Specialist
Williams, Pamela                             Sped Para
Williams, Nancy                              Para, Clerical
Williams, Daniel                             Custodian
Wilson, James                                Grade 10 Resource Room
Wilson, Janice                               Secretary, HS Guidance
Wolff-Variam, Cheryl                         Language Based Tutor
Wood, Enid                                   Cafeteria
Woodfin, Lonna                               Nurse
Worrick, Ann                                 Reading Tutor
Xiarhos, Kristin                             Reading Tutor
Yakubian, Elaine                             1:1 DA Tutor
Yanow, Brooke                                Kindergarten
Yeti, Danielle                               Orchestra Director, 3-12
Zalanowski, David                            Physics
Zarni, Patricia                              Sped Para
Zimmer, Wendy                                Spch & Lang Path



                           2008 MCAS SUMMARY

                            Longitudinal Summary
                (percentage of students at each performance level)


                             Grade 3 System Wide

   Reading/ELA              2004      2005         2006      2007       2008
   Advanced                                         38        26         28
   Proficient                88        81           40        48         47
   Needs Improvement         11        16           21        21         21
   Warning/Failing            1         2           1          4         4
   Mathematics                                     2006      2007       2008




                                      248
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Advanced                                 6       30       37
Proficient                               64      41       37
Needs Improvement                        25      21       20
Warning/Failing                          5        8        6




                               Grade 4

  English/Lang. Arts    2004     2005    2006    2007     2008
  Advanced               15       14      8       18       13
  Proficient             58       51      57      63       54
  Needs Improvement      25       29      28      15       27
  Warning/Failing        2        6       7       4         6
  Mathematics           2004     2005    2006    2007     2008
  Advanced               20       21      19      21       26
  Proficient             40       37      36      37       34
  Needs Improvement      35       36      38      34       34
  Warning/Failing        4        7       8       8         6



                               Grade 5

 English/Lang. Arts     2004     2005     2006     2007        2008
 Advanced                                  25       21          25
 Proficient                                55       56          54
 Needs Improvement                         15       19          18
 Warning/Failing                           4        3           3
 Mathematics            2004     2005     2006     2007        2008
 Advanced                                  30       33          42
 Proficient                                36       41          29
 Needs Improvement                         26       18          20




                               249
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


   Warning/Failing                                   8            8            10
   Science & Tech.         2004        2005         2006         2007         2008
   Advanced                 21          18           18           18           26
   Proficient               38          53           46           42           42
   Needs Improvement        35          25           32           35           27
   Warning/Failing          6            4           4            5            5


                                   Grade 6

  English/Lang. Arts     2004        2005     2006         2007         2008
  Advanced                                     20           17           28
  Proficient                                   64           69           57
  Needs Improvement                            13           12           12
  Warning/Failing                               3            2            3
  Mathematics            2004        2005     2006         2007         2008
  Advanced                38          26       25           28           39
  Proficient              28          36       41           42           40
  Needs Improvement       24          24       23           24           14
  Warning/Failing         10          14       11            6            7




                                  Grade 7

English/Lang. Arts       2004       2005      2006         2007         2008
Advanced                  24         19        20           21           20
Proficient                64         66        64           69           71
Needs Improvement         10         13        14           8            8
Warning/Failing            3         2          2           1            2
Mathematics              2004       2005      2006         2007         2008
Advanced                                       15           21           22




                                     250
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Proficient                                        37          40          44
Needs Improvement                                 35          30          27
Warning/Failing                                   13          9           8




                                    Grade 8
Eng/Language Arts            2004       2005           2006        2007    2008
Advanced                                                24          39      39
Proficient                                              60          57      55
Needs Improvement                                       13          2        6
Failing                                                 3           2        0
Mathematics                  2004          2005        2006        2007    2008
Advanced                      16            31          34          36      43
Proficient                    35            34          33          37      34
Needs Improvement             34            21          15          20      15
Warning/Failing               15            14          18          7        8
Science/Technology           2004          2005        2006        2007    2008
Advanced                      7             1           12          6        8
Proficient                    38            46          50          49      59
Needs Improvement             42            43          28          40      28
Warning/Failing               12            9           11          6        4




                                Grade 10

Eng/Language Arts      2004          2005         2006        2007        2008
Advanced                39            43           17          44          39
Proficient              46            43           70          47          48
Needs Improvement       13            12           12              9       12
Warning/Failing         3              2           2               1       1
Mathematics            2004          2005         2006        2007        2008




                                     251
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Advanced                  46          53           54        67           60
Proficient                32          27           28        22           26
Needs Improvement         14          17           13        10           10
Warning/Failing            7           4           5         2            4
Science&                                                                 2008
Technology
Advanced                                                                  34
Proficient                                                                42
Needs Improvement                                                         19
Warning/Failing                                                           5




                    Scholastic Aptitude Test Scores (SAT)
                              Five-Year History
                          Marblehead SAT Scores

             Year         Verbal            Math            Combined
             2004          557              556               1113
             2005              559           559              1118

                          Critical
             Year                           Math            Writing
                          Reading
             2006           552              563                 550
             2007              554           554                 548
             2008              550           553                 543

                                AP Examinations
               YEAR                  2006           2007          2008
     # of Students                    163            128           158
                                      250            176           210
     Total Grades reported
     # of Subjects                     14            11            13
     % Earning 3 or Better            75%           88%           81%




                                     252
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                     National Merit Scholarship Program
Class of 2009 - 8 Commended Scholars
Class of 2008 - 6 Commended Scholars
Class of 2007 – 1 Semi-Finalist and 13 Commended Students
Class of 2006 – 1 Semi-Finalist and 5 Commended Students

                        Advanced Placement Awards
            Class of 2007-20 AP Scholar Awards
                          14 AP Scholar with Honors Awards
                           3 AP Scholar with Distinction Awards
                           1 AP National Scholar

            Class of 2006-14 AP Scholar Awards
                          11 AP Scholar with Honors Awards
                          12 AP Scholar with Distinction Awards
                           1 AP National Scholar

                Post Secondary Report for the Class of 2008
                Size of Class                     235
                Percentage continuing education  94 %
                   Attending 4 year Colleges     89 %
                   Attending 2 year Colleges       4%
                   Post Grad or Technical School   1%
                   Military                       1%
                Percentage going into employment 5 %




                               Class of 2008

                Valedictorian: Nora Anne Updegrove

        Damola Musbau Abu
+       Syeda Anum
+       Christopher Casey Argiros
        Alexandra Lucía Bakovic
        Jackson McCabe Barber
        Katherine Presbrey Beaumont




                                      253
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


      Caroline Margaret Belli
      Sean Anthony Belliveau
*++   Kyle M.Benowitz
      William Charles Beringer
      Lauren Dana Bibby
      Christian Ayana Blue
      Alika Kiona Brammer
      Ryan Burton Braun
      Hilary Rose Brenton
      Erin Elizabeth Brings
+     Inna Brockman
+     David Solomon Brooks
+     Candace Eve Brown
+     Matthew Douglas Bruno
      Joshua Eli Buchsbaum
*++   Trevor Verbridge Burd
      Alexandra Dawn Burke
      Jessica Nicole Burnett
      Joshua Edward Butler
+     Julia Ann Buttitta
      Alison Marie Cacace
+     Caroline Elizabeth Caliri
+     Taylor Kaitlin Callahan
      Madison Don Cameron
      Robert Charles Campbell
*++   Vincenzo Capasso
      Shelby Paige Carroll
      Nicholas Carter
      Emma Jules Charney
      Sarah Elizabeth Chirlin
      Rachel Ilyssa Cohen
      Sarah Elizabeth Cohen
      Tucker Fitzgerald Cohen
+     Courtney Therese Colantuno
      Michael Anthony Colucci
*++   Christopher Edward Keith Conn
      Amber Leah Connors
      Timothy John Cox
*++   Anna Catherine Crespi
      Simon Allerton Crowe




                                 254
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


*+    Carly Cutler
      Naydeesha Carlnita Davis
      Todd Michael DeLisle
+     Gillian Rose Dempsey
+     Erin Laura Depew
      Michael Anthony DiFillippo
*++   Benjamin Lee Dobkin
      Yoel Drachman
      Rachel Eileen Duffy
      David Clifton Dufour
      Isiah Otis Duncan-Morgan
+     Christina Maria Economou
      Jennie Elizabeth Edwards
      Richard Alexander Ehlert
      Gustaf Aaron Erickson
+     Alexandra Steinfeld Etholm
      Eric Michael Fader
      Alex Curtis Farmer
      Kyle Maurice Farmer
      Bryan J. Fink
+     Suzanne Elizabeth Foley
      Marco Erminio Forziati
+     Sarah McAllister Foss
      Dustin Scott Foudray
*++   Hilary Diane Franklin
      Glenn Scott Freeman
++    Philip William Freidin
+     Alison Sara Futcher
      Tori Sasha Galiel
      Anna Katherine Georges
      Andrew Murphy Glabicky
*++   Lisa Michelle Goldman
      Steven Edward Goler, Jr.
      Yannick Sebastian Gomes
+     Joseph Adam Goodman
+     Raquel Latoya Graham
*++   Hannah Elizabeth Green
      Paul Antoine Green
      Ethan David Greif
      Drew Baker Guzowski




                                   255
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


      Chelsey Marie Halpin
      Elise Flynn Hamilton
*++   Rachel Marie Hastings
+     Amanda Jean Hebert
      Shoshana Beth Heerter
*++   Stephanie Elizabeth Herbst
+     Hannah Elizabeth Hood
      Avenash Hemraj Hospedales
*++   Caroline Elizabeth Humphrey
      Victoria Jordan Hurney
      Collin Daniel Hyte
      Molly Kellogg Iberger
      Britney Leigh Jackson
      Amanda Marie James
      James Ryan Johnson
      George Kaltsas
      Jonathan Michael Kamin
++    Laura Frances Kanarski
*++   Zachary Ian Kaplan
      Ariel Joshua Katz
      Dylan Gleason Kennedy
*+    Eileen Maude Kennedy
*++   Tamara Joy Kessler
      Harry Michael Kornfeld
*++   Jacob Mathew Koshy
+     Julie Fitzgerald Kowalik
      Brad Michael Krivelow
      Benjamin Simon Labovitz
      Wendy Brooke Lampert
      Alycia Anne Latorella
      Kristen Elizabeth Lawson
      Jennifer Diana Lazea
*++   Jessica Lynn Lebowitz
*++   Libby Rose Levine
      Zachary Adam Levinson
      Paul Leyfer
      Shawn Matthew Likins
      Jack O'Keefe Loveday
      George Horning Lowden III
      Gabriella Luise




                                    256
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


++    Jill Colleen Mackesey
+     Bonnie Elizabeth Magee
      Michelle Elizabeth Manley
      Rachel Marcorelle
+     Laura Shumway Marenghi
      Daniel Thomas Martin
      Olivia Rose Martin
      Meta Catherine Martinez
      Michael Towler Marzan
      Catelin Ann McCarriston
      Brian Michael McCarthy
      John James McDonald
+     Daniel Scott McDowell
+     Ariel Marie McKenney
      Haley Cameron McMahon
      Rebecca Jill Melnick
      Lila Reneaux Menard
      Neala Kathleen Menz
+     Tessa Ray Merrick
      Benjamin Samuel Mervis
      Samuel Benjamin Mewton
      Claire Catherine Michaud
*++   Melanie Leah Miller
*++   Amy Samantha Mishkin
+     Jenna Lauren Mizner
      Jordan Warren Moskow
      Ben Aaron Moss
      James Philip Moulton
*+    Vanessa Aurelie Mukania
      Miles Samuel Mulman
+     Juliet Theresa Munroe
      Patrick Ryan Murphy
+     Amanda Sue Neilson
      Kevin James Nesbitt
      Joshua Payson Norman
      Daniel Poppel November
      Gregory Vincent Noyes
      Michael Edward Noyes
      Laura Meaghan O’Connor
      Keira Elizabeth O'Donovan




                                  257
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


      Kari Rose Osborne
*++   Neil Rankin Patch
      Sinead Asha Persaud
      Luiza Pissolatti de C. Moura
      Christopher Wiswell Quealy
++    Catherine Elizabeth Rafferty-Millett
+     Chelsey Ann Reardon
+     James Hulbert Redding
      Christopher Joseph Rengel
      Brandon Scott Rice
      Mackenzie Lee Robb
      Brett Evan Rome
      Angelica Maria de Jesus Rosa
      Annabel Cora Ruderman
      Remington Robert Russo
      Michael Linden Sahagian
      Nicholas Anthony Santoro
      Ben Khalil Saponar
      Jessica Mary Sasso
      Jonathan Steven Satin
      Adrienne Elyse Schenkel
      Anthony Alberto Schepsis
*++   Jessica Rachel Score
      Michael Reynolds Scott
+     Nelly Ena Shteynberg
      Katherine Marie Simmons
+     Katherine Renner Slattery
      Lydia Ann Smith
+     Tyler Allerton Smith
      Victoria Elizabeth Snow
+     Jessica Cecelia Sokol
      Andrew David Solomon
+     Sara Rose Wandahl Sommerstein
+     Alexander Gregory Spanos
+     Kathrin Ann Spillane
+     Cassandra Ann Sprague
       Alexandra Georgia Stamison
       Elizabeth Rose Stevens
+      Nikki Anne Stracka
       Natalia Jean Struyde




                                    258
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


          Paul Frederick Stunzi, Jr.
          Elise Helene Sutherland
+         Michael Benjamin Syversen
+         Kaitlyn Mae Taylor
          Caitlin Elisabeth Teague
          Alexander Lee Terrill
          John Herlihy Tobin
          Nicholas O'Dea Tobin
          David Bradford Traynor
          Neana Marie Tucker
*++       Nora Anne Updegrove
          Jeffrey Charles Vaccari
          Blake Patterson Van Dussen
          Fernando Villa
          Camille Marie Voyer
*++       Benjamin Austin Hawkes Waller
          Laura Grace Walsh-Rogalski
          Kymber Rachelle Ward
+         Amanda Leigh Welch
          Ashley Anne White
          Kellie Marie Wiesner
+         Jane Grace Wilkens
          David Gregory Dispirito Wise
+         Michael Flacks Wittner
          Jillian Ashley Wood
          Katherine Anne Wyman
          Jeremy Daniel Young


                           * National Honor Society Member
         ++ High Honor Graduate: 3.8 Cumulative Grade Point Average or better
                                      (7 semesters)
      + Honor Graduate: 3.4 Cumulative Grade Point Average or better (7 semesters)
                    NOTE: List of graduates and awards subject to change




                                       259
      School    PreK   K      1     2     3     4     5     6     7     8     9    10    11     12   Totals

      Bell      45     82    84    84    75                                                           370




                                                                                                                                            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT
                                                                                                              October 1, 2008 Enrollments
      Coffin                       84    82                                                           166

      Gerry            79    77                                                                       156

      Glover                 96    107   88                                                           291
260




      Eveleth          98                                                                             98

      Village                                  263   251   222                                        736

      Middle                                                     249   226                            475

      High                                                                   245   269   248   227    989

      Total     45     259   257   275   245   263   251   222   249   226   245   269   248   227   3281
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


             Five-Year Enrollment Summary




             10/1/04   10/1/05   10/1/06   10/1/07   10/1/08

PreSchool      28        39        42        32        45
Elementary    1017      1005      1029      1036      1036
Village       624       610       612       707       736
School
Middle        435       462       462       463       475
School
High          971       1001      990       982       989
School
Total         3075      3117      3135      3220      3281




                           261
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
County of Essex, ss
to Any Constable in the Town of Marblehead
Greeting:

         You are hereby required and directed in the name of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts to warn and give notice to the inhabitants of Marblehead, qualified to
vote in elections and in town affairs, to meet at the Marblehead Veterans Middle
School Auditorium, Duncan Sleigh Square, 217 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA,
on Monday, the fourth day of May next A. D. 2009 (it being the first Monday in
May) at 7:45 o’clock in the afternoon to act on the following articles in the Warrant
for said meeting as follows:

Article 1 Articles in Numerical Order
To see if the Town will vote to adopt an order requiring articles in the Warrant to be
taken up in their numerical order, as requested by the Selectmen.

Article 2 Reports of Town Officers and Committees
To receive the report of the Town Accountant, the reports of the Town Officers, and
special Committees and act thereon.

Article 3 Lease Town Property
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to let or
lease such land, buildings or structures owned by the Town on such terms as they
may determine, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board
of Selectmen.

Article 4 Accept Trust Property
To see if the Town will vote to accept certain trust property, gifts or grants to be
administered by the Town or modify the terms thereof, or take any other action
relative thereto, as sponsored by Town Counsel.

Article 5 Assume Liability
To see if the Town will assume liability in the manner provided by Section 29 of
Chapter 91 of the General Laws, for all damages that may be incurred by work to be
performed by the Massachusetts Highway Department for the improvement,
development, maintenance and protection of tidal and non tidal rivers and streams,
harbors, tidewaters, foreshores and shores along a public beach in accordance with
Section 11 of Chapter 91 of the General Laws and authorize the Selectmen to




                                        262
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


execute and deliver a bond of indemnity therefor to the Commonwealth, or take any
other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 6 Unpaid Accounts
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum
of money to provide for the payment of any unpaid accounts brought forward from
previous years, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Director.

Article 7 Payment in Lieu of Tax (“PILOT”) Agreement
To vote to approve the payment in lieu of Tax (“PILOT”) Agreement between the
Town of Marblehead and Adventcare, Inc. with respect to the property known as
the Lafayette Rehabilitation and Skilled Nursing Facility and located at 25
Lafayette Street, Marblehead, Massachusetts. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen and the Board of Assessors.

Article 8 Available Funds Appropriate to Meet State Aid Revenue Cuts
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate the free cash balance in the hands of the
Town Treasurer sufficient to offset the reductions in fiscal year 2009 state aid
revenue, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Director.

Article 9 Reductions in Fiscal 2009 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what amounts of money the Town will reduce from existing fiscal year 2009
appropriations to be reduced from amounts appropriated in Article 44 of the May
2008 Annual Town Meeting in order to address the reductions in the fiscal year
2009 state aid revenue or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Finance Director.

Article 10 Proposed Establishment of Other Post Employment Benefits
Liability Trust Fund
To see if the Town will vote to accept the provisions of Chapter 479 of the Acts of
2008. Sponsored by the Finance Director.

Article 11 Walls and Fences
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for the
construction and reconstruction of walls and fences for the protection of highways
and property, including engineering services in connection therewith; to authorize
the appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or
otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefor; to determine whether this




                                        263
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 12 Transfer of a portion of the unexpended proceeds of Seawall
Project Bond Anticipation Notes to Village School Project
To see if the Town will vote to transfer a portion of the unexpended proceeds of
outstanding bond anticipation notes that the Town issued pursuant to the vote of the
Town passed May 9, 2007 (Article 52), which vote appropriated and authorized a
borrowing of $8,700,000 for the construction and/or reconstruction of the Ocean
Avenue Causeway, to finance costs associated with the architectural, project
management, and construction of the Village School project as authorized by the
vote of the Town passed May 5, 2008 (Article 39), which vote appropriated and
authorized a borrowing $21,766,993 for such project, and to reduce the amount
authorized to be borrowed pursuant to such vote by the amount of such transfer; or
to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Director.

Article 13 Revolving Funds
To see if the Town will vote to authorize various revolving funds as required by
M.G.L. c 44 s.53E ½, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 14 Fiscal 2009 School Budget Additional Appropriation
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum
of money to fund additional expenses of the fiscal 2009 school budget, said sum to
be added to Article 44, Item 101, Schools, as voted at Town Meeting in May 2008,
or take any action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 15 Water and Sewer Commission Claims
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the
Board of Selectmen acting jointly to compromise any claims for damages or suits
pending against the Town of Marblehead on account of acts which may have
occurred during the construction of the water, sewer and storm water system or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 16 Storm Drainage Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the construction or
reconstruction of sewers for surface drainage purposes, and to authorize the
appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise,




                                        264
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


any land or easements necessary therefor, and to raise the money for such purposes
by the issue of bonds or notes or in any other manner, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 17 Sewer Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction or reconstruction of sewers for
sanitary purposes and for sewerage disposal, pump stations, original pumping
equipment, metering equipment, safety equipment, replacement of said equipment,
engineering, consultants, surveys, including revenue studies and other general
Sewer Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or
easements necessary to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 18 Water Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction, reconstruction and extending of
water mains, replacement of water meters, appurtenances, engineering, consultants,
surveys including revenue studies and other general Water Department purposes,
and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by
purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements necessary to take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 19 Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
To see if the Town will raise and appropriate any sums of money for the purchase
of equipment for the several departments of the Town; to authorize the Board of
Selectmen to trade old equipment as part of the purchase price; to determine
whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Committee.

Article 20 Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for
remodeling, reconstructing and making extraordinary repairs to existing Town
buildings and purchase necessary equipment including computer hardware and
software to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or
otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen.




                                      265
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Article 21 Sidewalks
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 162 Article III Section 162-9 of the
Bylaw which now reads, “No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any
snow and/or ice on or against a fire hydrant or on any sidewalk or roadway.” To be
revised as follows:
Omit section 162-9 in its entirety and replace as follows:
Section 162-9 A. Purpose
To protect the health and safety of the citizens of Marblehead by requiring snow
removal from sidewalks and in particular to assist school children, the elderly, and
the general public from having to walk in the street or be injured on snow-filled
sidewalks.
Section 162-9 B. Prohibition
No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any snow and/or ice on or against a
fire hydrant or on any sidewalk or roadway. This prohibition includes the
requirement that property owners remove snow from their bordering and adjacent
sidewalks, including curb cuts, within six hours after the snow ceases to fall if it
ceases to fall in the daytime and before 12:00 noon if it ceases to fall in the
nighttime.
Section 162-9 C. Penalty
Who so ever is found in violation of this Bylaw shall be fined $25.00 for each
offense. Every day that the sidewalk and adjacent areas remain unclear shall
constitute a separate offense. The Building Commissioner and the Police
Department shall enforce this Bylaw. Any appeal hereunder shall be taken to the
Clerk of the District Court as set forth in G.L. c. 40 §21D or take any action relative
thereto. Sponsored by Judith Bocock and others.

Article 22 Collective Bargaining (Fire)
To see if the Town will, pursuant to G.L. c. 150E §7, vote to appropriate the sums
of money sufficient to fund the collective bargaining agreement for fiscal year 2010
with the International Association of Firefighters AFL/CIO CLC Local 2043, or
take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 23 Collective Bargaining (Police)
To see if the Town will, pursuant to G.L. c. 150E §7, vote to appropriate the sums
of money sufficient to fund the collective bargaining agreement for fiscal year 2010
with Town of Marblehead Police Officers Union, or take any action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.




                                         266
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Article 24 Collective Bargaining (IUE/CWE – Local 1776)
To see if the Town will, pursuant to G.L. c. 150E §7, vote to appropriate the sums
of money sufficient to fund the collective bargaining agreement for fiscal year 2010
with Local 1776 of the IUE/CWE, or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by
the Board of Selectmen

Article 25 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Administrative)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Administrative Pay Schedule; to strike out the pay schedule
as it relates to Administrative personnel, substitute in place thereof the following
new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of
money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 26 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Seasonal and
Temporary Personnel)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Seasonal and Temporary Personnel Pay Schedules; strike
out the pay schedules as they relate to seasonal and temporary personnel, substitute
in place thereof the following new pay schedules and to transfer from available
funds and/or appropriate a sum of money to make said new pay schedules effective,
or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 27 Pay Schedule and Reclassification (Traffic Supervisors)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Traffic Supervisors Pay Schedule; to waive the pay schedule
as it relates to Traffic Supervisor personnel, substitute in place thereof the following
new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of
money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 28 Ratification of Salary By-law
To see if the Town will vote to ratify certain actions taken by the Compensation
Committee under the 1955 Salary By-law, Section 3(e) as last amended.
Or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Compensation
Committee.




                                         267
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Article 29 Compensation - Town Officers
To see if the Town will vote to revise the compensation of the Town Clerk as the
Town by vote may determine and to transfer from available funds and/or
appropriate a sum of money to make said revision effective or take any other action
relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 30 Financial Assistance for Conservation
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Conservation Commission and other
proper officers of the Town to apply for financial assistance from public and private
sources to be expended by the Conservation Commission for the purchase of vacant
land and any other purpose, authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General
Laws as amended, or to reimburse the Town for sums of money expended for such
purposes, or both, and to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Conservation Commission.

Article 31 Public consumption of Marijuana or Tetrahydrocannabinol
To see if the Town will amend Chapter 119 of the Town Bylaw by adopting the
following Article IV:

Chapter 119 Peace and Good Order

    Article IV   PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OF MARIJUANA OR
                 TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL
         § 119-4 A.    Prohibition on Use

    1.   Not in a Motor Vehicle: No person shall smoke, ingest, or otherwise use or
         consume marijuana or tetrahydrocannabinol (as defined in G.L. c. 94C, §1)
         while in or upon any public building, vehicle controlled by the Town,
         recreational area, playground, park, beach, boat landing or launch,
         schoolhouse, school grounds, street, sidewalk, public way, passageway,
         bridge, stairs, parking lot, cemetery, bus stop, or any area or property
         owned or under the control of the Town, or any area accessible to the
         public.
    2.   In a Motor Vehicle: The consumption of marijuana or
         tetrahydrocannabinol is also prohibited in any motor vehicle in or on a
         public way whether or not the user is operating the vehicle or whether the
         vehicle is in operation at all.

         § 119 –4 B.       Violations and Penalties




                                        268
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



    1.   Whoever violates this Bylaw shall be punished by a fine of three hundred
         dollars ($300) for each offense. Any penalty imposed under this Bylaw
         shall be in addition to any civil penalty imposed under G.L. c. 94C, §32L.
         If a violator fails to pay the fine issued, he or she may be subject to civil
         contempt proceedings.

         § 119 – 4 C. Enforcement

    1. Violations of any provision of this Bylaw may be processed pursuant to
       Chapter 40, section 21 D of the general laws of the Commonwealth and
       shall be in amount set forth above. Enforcement of this Bylaw under the
       Non-Criminal Disposition process shall be carried out by the Police Chief,
       and duly sworn Police Officers who shall have full enforcement powers.
    Sponsored by the Police Chief.


Article 32 Regional Emergency Communications Center
To see if the Town will vote to direct the Board of Selectmen to enter into an
intergovernmental agreement for a period of ten years to provide emergency and
non-emergency police, fire and emergency medical services dispatch with other
municipalities in Essex County based on a per capita chargeback through the
Cherry Sheet, or take any other action thereon. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen.

Article 33 Sex Offender Bylaw
To see if the Town will vote to require that no level two or level three sex offender
may reside or be employed within one mile of any school, library, pediatrician’s
office, park, playground, nursery school or school bus stop. No level two or three
sex offender may loiter within fifty feet of any school, library, pediatrician’s office,
park, playground, nursery school or school bus stop. Sponsored by Minora Collins
and others.

Article 34 Support for Merger of North Shore Technical High School and
Essex Agricultural High School
To see if the Town will vote to approve the merger of North Shore Technical High
School and Essex Agricultural High School. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 35 North Shore Technical High School Building Project




                                         269
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


To see if the Town will vote to approve the indebtedness authorized by the
Regional District School Committee of the North Shore Regional Vocational
School District for the purpose of the construction of a new North Shore Technical
High School, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen.

Article 36 North Shore Regional Vocational School District
To see if the Town will vote to approve the gross operating and maintenance budget
of the North Shore Technical High School and appropriate a sum of money for the
Town’s assessment of the same, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored
by the Board of Selectmen.

Artricle 37 Facilities Permit
To see if the Town will vote that the Marblehead Facilities Permit be of 3 options:
1. As current, allowing access to the Transfer Station and Devereux Beach; 2.
Allowing access to the Transfer Station only at a reduced fee; 3. Allowing access
to Devereux Beach only at a reduced fee. Fees to be determined by the Board of
Health. Sponsored by James Terlizzi and others.

Article 38 Proposed Demand Fee Level for Delinquent Taxes
To see if the Town will vote to charge for each written demand issued by the Town
Collector a fee of fifteen dollars to be added to and collected as part of the tax, as
authorized by Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 60, Section 15, effective as of
July 1, 2009. Sponsored by the Finance Director.

Article 39 Zoning Bylaw Change
To see if the town will vote to amend the zoning Bylaw as follows: (bold text
added)
a.       Article II Definitions 200-7 Meaning of words. DECK first sentence which
presently reads “An unroofed outdoor area whether of wood or other material,
whose floor is more than two feet above mean grade.” To read instead “ An
unroofed outdoor structure whether of wood or other material, with a floor which
is more than two feet above existing grade at any point.”

b.       Article 200-9 Interpretation of zone district boundaries D. Shoreline and
Harborfront District Boundaries Add a new paragraph (5) In any shoreline district
the side yard setback requirement shall be applied to the property line(s) that
is most perpendicular to the direction of the shoreline.
Or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Planning Board




                                        270
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Article 40 Smart Growth Overlay District
To see if the the Town will vote to amend the Marblehead Zoning Bylaw by adding
a new § 200-44 entitled “Smart Growth Overlay District” to read as follows:
§200-44. Smart Growth Overlay District (SG)
A. Purposes. The purposes of the Smart Growth Overlay District are:(1) To
encourage smart growth development within Marblehead, especially in the
downtown.(2) To promote low impact, green, and sustainable development that is
pedestrian friendly.(3) To ensure high quality site planning, architecture and
landscape design that is consistent with the distinct visual character and identity of
downtown Marblehead and Vinnin Square and provides development with safety,
convenience and amenities appropriate to its residential and mixed-use nature. (4)
To establish development standards that ensure context-sensitive design and
creative site planning in the reuse of existing buildings and construction of new
buildings. (5) To provide for diversified housing stock at a variety of costs in close
proximity to the local bus lines, including affordable housing, that meets the needs
of the Town’s population and promotes diversity. (6) To generate positive tax
revenue, and to benefit from the financial incentives provided by M.G.L. Ch. 40R,
while providing the opportunity for housing choice among households of varying
incomes, ages and sizes. B. Scope and Authority. The SG is established pursuant
to the authority of M.G.L. Ch. 40R and 760 CMR 59.00, and shall be deemed to
overlay the parcels as shown on the Zoning Map of the Town of Marblehead, as
amended. At the option of the owner, development of land within the SG may be
undertaken by means of a Plan Approval pursuant to the zoning controls set forth in
this § 200-44 or by complying with all applicable zoning controls set forth in the
Zoning Bylaw of the Town of Marblehead (Underlying Zoning). Development
Projects proceeding under this § 200-44 shall be governed solely by the provisions
of this § 200-44 and shall be deemed exempt from the standards and/or procedures
of the Underlying Zoning. C. Establishment and Delineation of Smart Growth
Overlay District and Sub-Districts. Within the SG, there are Sub-Districts
identified as SG School / Pleasant Sub-District and SG Vinnin Square Sub-District.
The boundaries of the SG and the Sub-Districts are delineated SG and labeled
“Smart Growth Overlay District and Sub-Districts” on the Official Zoning Map of
the Town of Marblehead in the office of the Town Clerk. D. Definitions. All
definitions are as they appear in the Marblehead Zoning Bylaw in effect as of the
date of adoption of this Bylaw, 2009, with the exception of the follow terms which
are not defined in the Underlying Zoning. As used in this § 200-44, the following
terms shall have the meanings set forth below. To the extent that there is any
conflict between this § 200-44, or the administrative rules referenced in § 200-




                                        271
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


44(K), and M.G.L. Ch. 40R and / or 760 CMR 59.00, et seq., the latter shall control:
ADMINISTERING AGENCY – A qualified housing organization designated by
the Marblehead Board of Selectmen with the power to monitor and to enforce
compliance with the provisions of this Bylaw related to Affordable Units, including
but not limited to computation of rental and sales prices; income eligibility of
households applying for Affordable Units; administration of an approved housing
marketing and resident selection plan; and recording and enforcement of an
Affordable Housing Restriction for each Affordable Unit in the SG.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING RESTRICTION – A deed restriction of an Affordable
Homeownership Unit meeting the requirements in M.G.L. Ch. 184 § 31 and the
requirements of this Bylaw. AFFORDABLE RENTAL UNIT – A dwelling unit
required to be rented to an Eligible Household in accordance with the requirements
of this Bylaw.
AFFORDABLE HOMEOWNERSHIP UNIT – A dwelling unit required to be sold
to an Eligible Household in accordance with the requirements of this Bylaw.
APPLICANT – A landowner or other petitioner that files a Plan for a Development
Project subject to the provisions of the SG. APPROVING AUTHORITY – The
Planning Board of the Town of Marblehead acting as the authority designated to
review projects and issue approvals under this Bylaw. AS-OF-RIGHT
DEVELOPMENT – A Development Project allowable under this Bylaw without
recourse to a special permit, variance, zoning amendment, or other form of zoning
relief. A Development Project that is subject to the Plan Review requirement of this
Bylaw shall be considered an As-of-Right Development. DHCD – The
Massachusetts Department of Housing and Community Development (DHCD) or
any successor agency. DESIGN STANDARDS – The document entitled
Marblehead Smart Growth Overlay District Design Standards, as amended,
approved by DHCD [INSERT DATE OF DHCD APPROVAL], 2009 pursuant to
M.G.L. Chapter 40R, § 10. The Design Standards are applicable to all Development
Projects within the SG that are subject to Plan Review by the Approving Authority.
DEVELOPMENT LOT – One or more Lots meeting the dimensional requirements
of this Bylaw which are designated as a Development Lot on a Plan for a
Development Project proposed within the SG and for which Plan Approval is
required under the provisions of this Bylaw. The lots comprising a Development
Lot need not be in the same ownership but within the initial application the
Applicant must demonstrate site control of all land subject to modification pursuant
to the requested permit. DEVELOPMENT PROJECT – A residential or mixed-use
development undertaken under this § 200-44. The limits of a Development Project
shall be identified in the SG in the Plan which is submitted to the Approving
Authority for Plan Review. ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLD – An individual or
household whose annual income is below eighty percent (80%) of the area-wide




                                       272
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Median Household Income as determined by the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD),adjusted for household size, with income
computed using HUD's rules for attribution of income to assets. HOUSEHOLD
INCOME, MEDIAN – The median income, adjusted for household size, as reported
by the most recent information from, or calculated from regulations promulgated
by, the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT – A building with a minimum of 25%
of the floor area on the street level devoted to nonresidential uses and including
residential units. A minimum of 50% of the total gross floor area in a Mixed-Use
Development Project shall be devoted to residential uses. MULTI-FAMILY
DWELLING – A residential or mixed-use building containing more than three
Dwelling Units designed for occupancy by the same number of families as the
number of Dwelling Units. NON-RESIDENTIAL USE – Office, Retail or
Restaurant Use, inclusive, or some combination of the same. OFFICE – A place of
business of a professional organization or the administration facility of a
commercial or industrial organization. PLAN – A plan depicting a proposed
Development Project for all or a portion of the SG and which is submitted to the
Approving Authority for its review and approval in accordance with the provisions
of this Bylaw. PLAN APPROVAL – The Approving Authority’s authorization for a
proposed Development Project based upon a finding of compliance with this Bylaw
and Design Standards after the conduct of a Plan Review. PLAN REVIEW – The
review procedure established by § J of this Bylaw and administered by the Planning
Board of the Town of Marblehead as the Approving Authority. PUBLIC PARK –
The public open space owned by the Town of Marblehead and located on Assessors
Parcel 129-19-0. RENOVATION – Physical improvement that adds to the value of
the real property. Painting, ordinary repairs, and other normal maintenance do not
constitute a renovation. SETBACK – Please refer to ARTICLE V Dimensional
Regulations § 200-15. B.(3) of the Marblehead Zoning Bylaw in effect as of the
date of adoption of this Bylaw. SG – The Smart Growth Overlay District, an
overlay zoning district adopted pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 40R, in accordance with the
procedures for zoning adoption and amendment as set forth in M.G.L. Ch. 40A and
approved by the Department of Housing and Community Development pursuant to
M.G.L. Ch. 40R and 760 CMR 59.00. SUB-DISTRICT – A specific and defined
area of land within the SG that is subject to specific requirements for allowable uses
or dimensional requirements that may differ from the requirements for allowable
uses or dimensional requirements in other specific and defined areas within the SG.
UNDERLYING ZONING – The zoning requirements adopted pursuant to M.G.L.
Ch. 40A that are otherwise applicable to the geographic area in which the SG is
located, as said requirements may be amended from time to time. UNDULY
RESTRICT – A provision of the SG or a Design Standard that adds unreasonable




                                        273
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


costs or unreasonably impairs the economic feasibility of a proposed Development
Project in the SG. UNRESTRICTED UNIT – A Dwelling Unit that is not restricted
as to rent, price or eligibility of occupants. ZONING BYLAW – The Zoning Bylaw
of the Town of Marblehead, Massachusetts, adopted in accordance with and
pursuant the provisions of M.G.L. Ch. 40A. ZONING MAP – The Zoning Map of
the Town of Marblehead, Massachusetts, adopted in accordance with and pursuant
the provisions of M.G.L. Ch. 40A. E. Permitted Uses. The following uses shall be
permitted in the following Sub-Districts As-of-Right upon Plan Approval, and at
residential densities specified in Table G. Table of Dimensional and Density
Requirements pursuant to the provisions of this Bylaw: e


                 Residence         SG              SG
                 Uses              Pleasant St     Vinnin
                                   Sub district    Square
                                                   Sub
                                                   district
                 Multi-            No              Yes
                 Family
                 Dwelling
                 Mixed Use         Yes             Yes
                 Development
                 Project


Uses that are not included as allowable uses pursuant to this Bylaw but allowable
pursuant to the Underlying Zoning must be permitted pursuant to the Underlying
Zoning. Mixed-Use Development Projects that include a non-residential component
only allowable by Special Permit must apply for and receive a Special Permit
pursuant to the Underlying Zoning prior to exercising a Plan Approval pursuant to
this Bylaw. F. Prohibited Uses or Activities in the SG. (1) Non-Residential Use,
except for those uses permitted pursuant to the Underlying Zoning or in a Mixed
Use Development Project. (2) Any use prohibited by the Underlying Zoning in
effect as of the date of adoption of this Bylaw. (3) Any use not listed in § E of this
Bylaw is expressly prohibited; provided, however, that uses permitted in the
Underlying Zoning district are permitted subject to the permitting requirements and
performance standards in the Zoning Bylaw and other applicable regulations. G.
Dimensional and Other Requirements. (1) New buildings within the SG shall be
subject to the bulk, dimensional and density requirements in Table G. Table of
Dimensional and Density Requirements: Su




                                         274
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




         275
                               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



b-District
                         Sub district     Min lot   Max       Min        Min
                         min              area      Res       Frontage   open
                                                    density              area
                         SG               10,000    30        35         N
                         School/Pleasan
                         t Sub-District
                         SG Vinnin        10,000    30        35         (2)
                         Square Sub-
                         District
                         Sub district     Min       Min       Min rear   Max
                         min              front     side      setback    height
                                          setback   setback
                         SG               N         (1)       (1)        45
                         School/Pleasan
                         t Sub-District
                         SG Vinnin Sq     N         (1)       (1)        40
                         Sub-District


Notes: N – None (1) – Except as to any boundary abutting any other business district, six feet; as to any
boundary abutting any residential district, nine feet. May be reduced at the discretion of the Plan
Approval Authority. (2) – One square foot of open land area (in addition to the areas of required parking
spaces for such lot) for each two square feet of gross floor area.

(2) Building Renovation. Renovation of existing buildings may maintain existing
building footprints, and may only expand such footprints insofar as such expansion
is in compliance with the required dimensional requirements for new buildings.
Renovation building projects need not meet Setback requirements applicable to new
construction, but renovated buildings may not cross lot lines or Sub-District
boundaries. (3) Fractional Units. When the application of the allowable densities
specified in Table G. Table of Dimensional and Density Requirements results in a
number that includes a fraction, the fraction shall be rounded up to the next whole
number if the fraction is 0.5 or more. If the result includes a fraction below 0.5, the
fraction shall be rounded down to the next whole number. (4) Adjacency to Public
Park. Where a Development Project is proposed on a Development Lot located
immediately adjacent to a Public Park, the allowable as-of-right density shall be
calculated based on the combined land area of the proposed Development Lot and
the land area of the Public Park. H. Off-Street Parking. (1) Off-street parking for
the non-residential portion of mixed-use buildings shall be provided in order to
meet or exceed the minimum requirements in § 200-17 (B-D) of the Zoning Bylaw
in effect as of the date of adoption of this Bylaw. (2) Off-street parking for
Dwelling Units in the SG School/Pleasant Sub-District shall be provided in order to
meet or exceed the following minimum requirements: (3) Off-street parking for
Dwelling Units in the SG Vinnin Square Sub-District shall be provided in order to
meet or exceed two (2) parking spaces per Dwelling Unit. Dwelling Unit (1
bedroom) 1.0 spaces; Dwelling Unit (2 bedrooms) 1.5 spaces; Dwelling Unit (3




                                                    276
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


bedrooms) 2.0 spaces; Dwelling Unit (4 bedrooms) 2.5 spaces. (4) Fractional
Spaces. When the application of the minimum required parking standards in this
Section H results in a number that includes a fraction, the fraction shall be rounded
up to the next whole number if the fraction is 0.5 or more. If the result includes a
fraction below 0.5, the fraction shall be rounded down to the next whole number.
(5) Location of parking. Any surface parking lot shall be located at the side or rear
of a building, relative to any public right-of-way or public open space. In no case
shall surface parking for new construction be permitted within the required front
setbacks. Sub-surface parking is allowed. (6) The Approving Authority may grant a
Plan Approval making such modifications in the parking standards or prescribe
safeguards and conditions as it shall warrant appropriate, provided that it finds that
it is impractical to meet the standards and that such modifications are appropriate by
reason of the proposed use and will not result in or worsen parking or traffic
problems in the SG. The Approving Authority may impose conditions of use or
occupancy appropriate to such modifications. (7) Where the Development Lot
consists of more than a single lot, the lots, in combination, shall be treated as the
Development Lot, may be contiguous or non-contiguous, and at the discretion of
the Approving Authority, may be considered as one lot for the purpose of
calculating parking requirements. (8) Shared use of required parking. At the
discretion of the Approving Authority, shared use may be made of required parking
spaces by intermittent use establishments such as churches, assembly halls, or
theaters whose peak parking demand is only at night or on Sundays and by other
uses whose peak demand is only during the day. In order for such shared parking to
be eligible to satisfy required off-street parking standards in whole or in part, prior
to Plan Approval a formal agreement shall be made in writing by the owners of the
uses involved concerning the number of spaces involved, substantiation of the fact
that such shared use is not overlapping or in conflict, and the duration of the
agreement. Required spaces shall be within 300 feet of the main entrance to the
principal buildings served by the shared parking. (9) The Approving Authority may
require additional visitor parking beyond the maximum required spaces per unit if
deemed appropriate given the design, layout, use and/or density of the proposed
Development Project. (10) Construction Standards. Each parking space shall be at
least nine feet wide and 20 feet long and shall be designed with appropriate means
of vehicular access to a street as well as maneuvering areas. Access and
maneuvering areas shall not be obstructed or used for the parking of motor vehicles.
Parking shall be designed and constructed to comply with all applicable disability
access requirements including but not limited to the Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA) and the Massachusetts Architectural Access Board (AAB). I. Design
Standards. To ensure that new development shall be of high quality, and shall meet
the standards envisioned by the Town of Marblehead in adopting this Bylaw, the




                                         277
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Approving Authority shall adopt the Design Standards governing the issuance of
Plan Approvals for Development Projects within the SG and shall file a copy with
the Town Clerk. In addition to the standards set forth in this Bylaw, the physical
character of Development Projects within the SG shall comply with such Design
Standards. In the event of any conflict between this Bylaw and the Design
Standards, this Bylaw shall govern and prevail. J. Affordable Housing. (1)
Number of affordable units. Twenty percent (20%) of all Dwelling Units
constructed in a Development Project shall be Affordable Units provided, however,
that twenty-five percent (25%) of all rental dwelling units in a Development Project
shall be Affordable Units. For Development Projects in which all of the Dwelling
Units are limited to occupancy by elderly persons and/or by persons with
disabilities, twenty-five percent (25%) of the Dwelling Units shall be Affordable
Units, whether the Dwelling Units are rental or ownership units. (2) Fractional
Units. When the application of the percentages specified above results in a number
that includes a fraction, the fraction shall be rounded up to the next whole number if
the fraction is 0.5 or more. If the result includes a fraction below 0.5, the fraction
shall be rounded down to the next whole number. (3) Affordable Units shall comply
with the following requirements: (a) The monthly rent payment for an Affordable
Rental Unit, including utilities and parking, shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of
the maximum monthly income permissible for an Eligible Household, with price
determined assuming a Family size equal to the number of bedrooms in the unit
plus one unless other affordable program rent limits approved by DHCD shall
apply; (b) For an Affordable Homeownership Unit the monthly housing payment,
including mortgage principal and interest, private mortgage insurance, property
taxes, condominium and/or homeowner's association fees, insurance, and parking,
shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the maximum monthly income permissible
for an Eligible Household, assuming a Family size equal to the number of bedrooms
in the Dwelling Unit plus one; and (c) Affordable Units required to be offered for
rent or sale shall be rented or sold to and occupied only by Eligible Households. (4)
Design and construction. (a) Design. Affordable Units must be comparable in initial
construction quality and exterior design to the Unrestricted Units. However, nothing
in this section is intended to limit a homebuyer’s rights to renovate a Dwelling Unit
under applicable law. The Affordable Units must have access to all on-site
amenities. The total number of bedrooms in the Affordable Units shall, insofar as
practicable, be proportionate to the total number of bedrooms in all units in the
Development Project. (b) Timing. All Affordable Units must be constructed and
occupied not later than concurrently with construction and occupancy of
Unrestricted Units. For any Development Project that is approved in phases, the
proportion of Affordable Units shall be consistent across all phases.




                                        278
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


(5) Age/Disability. At the Applicant’s option, the Development Project may include
the imposition of deed restrictions on age or disability to permit the Development
Project to be exclusively for the elderly and/or persons with disabilities provided,
however, that any such restrictions may not be applicable to the District as a whole.
(6) Affordable housing restriction. Each Affordable Unit shall be subject to an
Affordable Housing Restriction which is recorded with the Essex County Registry
of Deeds or Land Court Registry District of Essex County. The Affordable Housing
Restriction shall provide for the implementation of the requirements of this Bylaw.
All Affordable Housing Restrictions must include, at minimum, the following: (a)
Description of the Development Project, including whether the Affordable Unit will
be rented or owner-occupied. (b) A description of the Affordable Unit by address
and number of bedrooms. (c) The term of the Affordable Housing Restriction shall
be the longest period customarily allowed by law but shall be no less than thirty
(30) years. (d) The name and address of the Administering Agency with a
designation of its power to monitor and enforce the Affordable Housing Restriction.
In a case where the Administering Agency cannot adequately carry out its
administrative duties, upon certification of this fact by the Marblehead Board of
Selectmen or by DHCD such duties shall devolve to and thereafter be administered
by a qualified housing entity designated by the Marblehead Board of Selectmen or,
in the absence of such timely designation, by an entity designated by the DHCD. (e)
Reference to a housing marketing and resident selection plan, to which the
Affordable Unit is subject, and which includes an affirmative fair housing
marketing program, including public notice and a fair resident selection process.
The housing marketing and selection plan may provide for preferences in resident
selection to the extent consistent with applicable law. The plan shall designate the
household size appropriate for a unit with respect to bedroom size and provide that
preference for such unit shall be given to a household of the appropriate size. (f) A
requirement that buyers or tenants will be selected at the initial sale or initial rental
and upon all subsequent sales and rentals from a list of Eligible Households
compiled in accordance with the housing marketing and selection plan. (g)
Reference to the formula pursuant to which rent of a rental unit or the maximum
resale price of a homeownership unit will be set. (h) A requirement that only an
Eligible Household may reside in an Affordable Unit and that notice of any lease or
sublease of any Affordable Unit to another Eligible Household shall be given to the
Administering Agency. (i) Provision for effective monitoring and enforcement of
the terms and provisions of the Affordable Housing Restriction by the
Administering Agency. (j) Provision that the restriction on an Affordable
Homeownership Unit shall run in favor of the Administering Agency and the Town
of Marblehead, in a form approved by municipal counsel, and shall limit initial sale
and re-sale to and occupancy by an Eligible Household. (k) Provision that the




                                          279
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


restriction on Affordable Rental Units in a rental Development Project or rental
portion of a Development Project shall run with the rental Development Project or
rental portion of a Development Project and shall run in favor of the Administering
Agency and the Town of Marblehead, in a form approved by municipal counsel,
and shall limit rental and occupancy to an Eligible Household. (l) Provision that the
owner(s) or manager(s) of Affordable Rental Unit(s) shall file an annual report to
the Administering Agency, in a form specified by that agency certifying compliance
with the provisions of this Bylaw and containing such other information as may be
reasonably requested in order to ensure affordability. (m)A requirement that
residents in Affordable Units provide such information as the Administering
Agency may reasonably request in order to ensure affordability eligibility and
compliance. (n) Designation of the priority of the Affordable Housing Restriction
over mortgages and other restrictions. (7) Administration. The Administering
Agency shall ensure the following: (a) Prices of Affordable Homeownership Units
are properly computed; rental amounts of Affordable Rental Units are properly
computed. (b) Income eligibility of households applying for Affordable Units is
properly and reliably determined. (c) The housing marketing and resident selection
plan conforms to all requirements and is properly administered. (d) Sales and
rentals are made to Eligible Households chosen in accordance with the housing
marketing and resident selection plan with appropriate unit size for each household
being properly determined and proper preference being given. (e) Affordable
Housing Restrictions meeting the requirements of this section are recorded with the
Essex County Registry of Deeds or Land Court Registry District of Essex County.
(8) The housing marketing and selection plan may make provision for payment by
the Applicant of reasonable costs to the Administering Agency to develop,
advertise, and maintain the list of Eligible Households, to conduct the housing
lottery, and to monitor and enforce compliance with affordability requirements over
time. K. Administration. The Approving Authority shall adopt and file with the
Town Clerk administrative rules relative to the application requirements and
contents for Plan Review. Such administrative rules and any amendment thereto
must be approved by the Massachusetts Department of Housing and Community
Development. The Plan Review process encompasses the following: (1) Pre-
application review. The Applicant is encouraged to participate in a pre-application
with the Approving Authority at a regular meeting(s) of the Approving Authority.
The purpose of the preapplication review is to obtain the advice and direction of the
Approving Authority prior to filing the application. At the preapplication review the
Applicant shall outline the proposal and seek preliminary feedback from the
Approving Authority, other municipal review entities, and other members of the
public. The Applicant is also encouraged to request a site visit by the Approving
Authority and/or its designee in order to facilitate pre-application review. (2)




                                        280
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Application procedures. (a) An application for Plan Approval shall be filed by the
Applicant with the Town Clerk and a copy of the application including the date of
filing certified by the Town Clerk shall be filed forthwith with the Approving
Authority. The Applicant shall also file the required number of copies of the
application with the Building Inspector and with the Approving Authority. Said
filing shall include any required forms provided by the Approving Authority. (b) As
part of any application for Plan Approval, the Applicant must submit the following
documents to the Approving Authority and the administering Agency: (1) Evidence
that the Development Project complies with the cost and eligibility requirements of
§ J. Affordable Housing; (2) Development Project plans that demonstrate
compliance with the requirements of § J. Affordable Housing; and (3) A form of
Affordable Housing Restriction that satisfies the requirements of § J. Affordable
Housing. (c) Review fees. The Applicant shall be required to pay for reasonable
consulting fees to provide peer review of the application for the benefit of the
Approving Authority. Such fees shall be held by the Town of Marblehead in an
interest-bearing escrow account, and shall be used only for expenses associated
with the use of outside consultants employed by the Approving Authority in
reviewing the Plan application. Any surplus funds remaining after the completion of
such review, including any interest accrued, shall be returned to the Applicant
forthwith. (d) Upon receipt by the Approving Authority, applications for Site
Approval shall be distributed to the Board of Selectmen, Board of Health, Fair
Housing Committee, Building Inspector, Conservation Commission, Zoning Board
of Appeals, Department of Public Works, the Fire and Police Departments and the
Water and Sewer Commission. Any reports from these parties shall be submitted to
the Approving Authority within sixty (60) days of filing of the application. (e)
Within thirty (30) days of filing of an application with the Approving Authority, the
Approving Authority or its designee shall evaluate the proposal with regard to its
completeness and shall submit an advisory report in writing to the Applicant
certifying the completeness of the application. Where an application is found to be
incomplete, the Approving Authority or its designee shall provide a statement
outlining required items that were missing from the application. The Board or its
designee shall forward to the Applicant, with its report, copies of all
recommendations received to date from other boards, commissions or departments.
(3) Public hearing. The Approving Authority shall hold a public hearing and review
all applications according to the procedure specified in M.G.L. Ch. 40R § 11. (4)
Prior to the granting of any Plan Approval for a Development Project, the Applicant
must demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Administering Agency or, in the event
that an Administering Agency has not yet been named, to the satisfaction of the
Approving Authority, that the method by which such affordable rents or affordable
purchase prices are computed shall be consistent with state or federal guidelines for




                                        281
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


affordability applicable to the Town of Marblehead. (5) Plan Approval decision. (a)
The Approving Authority shall make a decision on the Plan application by majority
vote of its members, and shall file said decision with the Town Clerk, within 120
days of the receipt of the application by the Town Clerk. The time limit for public
hearings and taking of action by the Approving Authority may be extended by
written agreement between the Applicant and the Approving Authority. A copy of
such agreement shall be filed with the Town Clerk. (b) Failure of the Approving
Authority to take action within 120 days or extended time, if applicable, shall be
deemed to be an approval of the application. (c) An Applicant who seeks approval
because of the Approving Authority’s failure to act on an application within the 120
days or extended time, if applicable, must notify the Town Clerk in writing, within
fourteen (14) days from the expiration of said time limit for a decision, of such
approval and that a copy of that notice has been sent by the Applicant to parties in
interest by mail and that each such notice specifies that appeals, if any, shall be
made pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 40R and shall be filed within twenty (20) days after
the date the Town Clerk received such written notice from the Applicant that the
Approving Authority failed to act within the time prescribed. (d) The Approving
Authority’s findings, including the basis of such findings, shall be stated in a
written decision of approval, conditional approval or denial of the Plan Approval
application. The written decision shall contain the name and address of the
Applicant, identification of the land affected and its ownership, and reference by
date and title to the plans that were the subject of the decision. (e) The decision of
the Approving Authority, together with the detailed reasons therefore, shall be filed
with the Town Clerk, the Board of Appeals and the Building Inspector. A copy of
the decision shall be mailed to the Applicant and to the owner if other than the
Applicant by the Approving Authority certifying that a copy of the decision has
been filed with the Town Clerk and that all plans referred to in the decision are on
file with the Approving Authority. A notice of the decision shall be sent to parties
in interest and to persons who requested a notice at the public hearing. (f) Effective
date. If twenty (20) days have elapsed after the decision has been filed in the office
of the Town Clerk without an appeal having been filed or if such appeal, having
been filed, is dismissed or denied, the Town Clerk shall so certify on a copy of the
decision. If the application is approved by reason of the failure of the Approving
Authority to timely act, the Town Clerk shall make such certification on a copy of
the application. A copy of the decision or application shall be recorded with the
title of the land in question in the Essex County Registry of Deeds or the Essex
Land Registry District, and indexed in the grantor index under the name of the
owner of record or recorded and noted on the owner’s certificate of title. The
responsibility and the cost of said recording and transmittal shall be borne by the
Applicant. (6) Criteria for approval. The Approving Authority shall approve the




                                        282
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Development Project upon finding that it complies with the requirements of the SG
and applicable Design Standards. (7) Criteria for conditional approval. The
Approving Authority may impose conditions on a Development Project as
necessary to ensure compliance with this § 200-44 and applicable Design
Standards, or to mitigate any extraordinary adverse impacts of the Development
Project on nearby properties, insofar as such conditions are compliant with the
provisions of M.G.L. Ch. 40R and applicable regulations and do not Unduly
Restrict opportunities for development. The Approving Authority may require
construction of an approved Development Project to be phased for the purpose of
coordinating the Development Project with any mitigation required to address
extraordinary adverse Development Project impacts on nearby properties. (8)
Criteria for denial. The Approving Authority may deny an application for Plan
Approval pursuant to this Bylaw if the Board finds one or more of the following: (a)
The Development Project does not meet the conditions and requirements set forth in
the SG Zoning and applicable Design Standards. (b) The Applicant failed to submit
information and fees required by the SG Zoning and necessary for an adequate and
timely review of the design of the Development Project or potential Development
Project impacts. (c) It is not possible to adequately mitigate significant adverse
Development Project impacts on nearby properties by means of suitable conditions.
(9) Time limit. A project approval shall remain valid and shall run with the land
indefinitely provided that construction has commenced within two (2) years after
the decision issues, which time shall be extended by the time required to adjudicate
any appeal from such approval. Said time shall also be extended if the project
proponent is actively pursuing other required permits for the project or if there is
good cause for the failure to commence construction, or as may be provided in an
approval for a multi-phase Development Project. (10) Appeals. Pursuant to M.G.L.
Ch. 40R, § 11, any person aggrieved by a decision of the Approving Authority may
appeal to the Superior Court, the Land Court department, or the Housing Court
department within twenty (20) days after the Plan decision has been filed in the
office of the Town Clerk. L. Waivers. The Approving Authority may authorize
waivers in the Plan Approval with respect to the dimensional and other standards
set forth in this § 200-44 and in the Design Standards upon a finding that such
waiver will allow the Development Project to achieve the density, affordability
and/or physical character allowable under this Bylaw. However, the Approving
Authority may not waive any portion of the Affordable Housing requirements in §
J. Affordable Housing except insofar as such waiver results in the creation of a
number of Affordable Units in excess of the minimum number of required
Affordable Units. M. Fair Housing Requirement. All Development Projects
within the SG shall comply with applicable federal, state and local fair housing
laws. N. Annual Update. On or before July 31 of each year, the Board of




                                       283
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Selectmen shall cause to be filed an Annual Update with the Department of
Housing and Community Development (DHCD) in a form to be prescribed by
DHCD. The Annual Update shall contain all information required in 760 CMR
59.07, as may be amended from time to time, and additional information as may be
required pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 40S and accompanying regulations. The Town
Clerk shall maintain a copy of all updates transmitted to DHCD pursuant to this
Bylaw, with said copies to be made available upon request for public review. O.
Notification of Issuance of Building Permits. Upon issuance of a residential
building permit within the SG, the Building Inspector shall cause to be filed an
application to the DHCD in a form to be prescribed by DHCD, for authorization of
payment of a one-time density bonus payment for each residential building permit
pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 40R. The application shall contain all information required
in 760 CMR 59.06 (2), as may be amended from time to time, and additional
information as may be required pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 40S and accompanying
regulations. The Town Clerk shall maintain a copy of all such applications
transmitted to DHCD pursuant to this Bylaw, with said copies to be made available
upon request for public review. P. Date of effect. The effective date of this Bylaw
shall be the date on which such adoption is voted upon by Town Meeting pursuant
to the requirements of M.G.L. Ch. 40A § 5 and M.G.L. Ch. 40R; provided,
however, that an Applicant may not proceed with construction pursuant to this
Bylaw prior to the receipt of final approval of this Bylaw and accompanying Zoning
Map by both the Department of Housing and Community Development and the
Office of the Massachusetts Attorney General. Q. Severability. The provisions of
this section are severable. If any provision of this section is held invalid, the other
provisions shall not be affected but shall remain in full force. (A copy hereof is
available at the office of the Town Clerk)
Or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Planning Board.

Article 41 Landfill Regulatory Compliance Activities
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for continued water quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk
assessment, engineering, and any other services related to the old landfill; to
determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or
take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Health

Article 42 Disposal Area Remediation / Stoneybrook Rd.
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money to be
expended by the Board of Health for disposal area remediation as it relates to
Stoneybrook Road and private property(s) on Stoneybrook Rd., some of which abut
land owned by the Town of Marblehead and to determine whether this




                                         284
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Health

Article 43 Litchman Terrace Open Space
To see if the Town will vote to transfer the care, custody, management and control
of a portion of the following described parcel of land known as Parcel 29 on
Marblehead Assessor’s Map 136 which is owned by the Town of Marblehead to the
Marblehead Conservation Commission for Open Space purposes. Said entire parcel
of land is described as a certain parcel of land owned by the Town of Marblehead
containing 1.153 acres and lying between a proposed road off Turner Road to the
northwest and Litchman is bounded as follows:

NORTHWEST by said proposed road (45 feet in width) off Turner Road;
NORTHEAST by land now or Bryan C. and Sara W. Segee (12 Turner Road),
Steven J. Elliott and Jane L. Knight (10 Turner Road), Sharon A. Trainor (76 Green
Street), Linda W. Boynton (72 Green Street), Vlad Farfel (68 Green Street) and
Robert L. and Michele McKay (66 Green Street);
SOUTHEAST by Litchman Terrace;
SOUTHWEST by land now or formerly of Paul and Sophia Moroz (24 Taft Street),
Joanne N. Jauron (22 Taft Street), Lewis W. II and Kristine E. Farrar (20 Taft
Street), Martha M. Stiles (18 Taft Street), William J. and Constance M. Willis (16
Taft Street) and Louise M. Antoniolli (14 Taft Street)
The parcel of land described above is identified by the term “Reservation” on a plan
entitled “Town of Marblehead, Turner Estate, Lot Plan” dated October 22, 1941, R.
O. Burlingham, Town Engineer, recorded with Essex South District Registry of
Deeds, Plan Book 73, Plan 82. The “Reservation” parcel shown on the 1941 plan
has been modified by the layout of Litchman Terrace in 1969 as shown on plan
entitled “Town of Marblehead, Litchman Terrace Layout (In Part)” dated
September 24, 1968, George H. Clark, Jr., Town Engineer, on file in the Office of
the Town Engineer, Marblehead, MA 01945.

Said portion of land to be transferred to the Conservation Commission shall include
the above description but shall not include a portion of the parcel of land which
consists of a 40-ft wide strip of land running parallel to and adjacent to Litchman
Terrace as shown on Plan entitled “Town Land off Litchman Terrace, Marblehead,
MA 01945” dated January 2009 on file in the Office of the Town Engineer,
Marblehead, MA 01945. Said strip of land to be excluded contains about 4,000
square feet (0.09 acres) and is to remain under the care, custody, management and
control of the Marblehead Board of Selectmen, or take any action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.




                                       285
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Article 44 Land Acquisition, Naugus Avenue
To see if the Town of Marblehead will vote to acquire for recreation purposes a fee
simple interest in certain parcel(s) of land totaling approximately three acres,
commonly known as the WESX property, located on Naugus Avenue, owned by
ATCO Inc. which are shown on Marblehead Assessors Maps as Map 176 Lot 16,
which land shall be held in the care and custody of the Board of Selectmen for
recreation purposes; that a sum of money be appropriated for such purpose and to
raise such appropriation, the Treasurer be authorized to borrow under and pursuant
to Chapter 44, Section 7 and 8C, of the General Laws or any other enabling
authority, and to issue bonds or notes of the Town therefor; provided that the
amount authorized to be borrowed hereunder shall be contingent upon the vote of
the Town Election to exempt from the provisions of Proposition 2-1/2, so called, the
amount required to satisfy the obligations, including principal and interest, under
the bonds; and further that the Board of Selectmen shall be authorized to file on
behalf of the Town of Marblehead any and all applications deemed necessary for
grants and /or reimbursements from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts or the
United States under the Self-Help Act (Chapter 132A, Section 11) and/or any other
state or federal programs including those in aid recreation land acquisition and to
receive and accept such grants and reimbursements, including grants from private
parties, for this purpose and/or any others in any way connected with the scope of
this Article; and the Board of Selectmen shall be authorized to enter into all
agreements and to execute any and all instruments as may be necessary on behalf
of The Town of Marblehead to affect said purchase, or take any other action in
relation thereto. Sponsored by Board of Selectmen.

Article 45 School Department Computer, Support Equipment, and
Technology Infrastructure.
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
purchasing computers, technology infrastructure, support software and equipment
and necessary accessory furnishings and to raise the money for these purposes by
the issuance of bonds or notes or in any other manner, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 46 Schools Construction and or Renovation Program
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
remodeling, constructing, furnishing or making extraordinary repairs, including all
professional feasibility studies, design, architectural and engineering fees, to the
Gerry, Coffin, Bell, Eveleth, Glover, Village, Veterans Middle and High School
and/or any other schools and their respective playing fields, and to raise the money




                                       286
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


for these purposes by the issue of bonds or notes or in any other manner, or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 47 Fiscal 2009 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, to defray the
necessary and usual expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal
year beginning July 1, 2008, to be added to Article 44 of the May 2008 Annual
Town Meeting, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the
Finance Department.

Article 48 Available Funds appropriate to Reduce Tax Rate
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate free cash balance in the hands of the
Town Treasurer, including any surplus or part of surplus in the Electric Light
Department for use of the Assessors in making the tax rate or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Director.

Article 49 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the necessary and
usual expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2009, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Finance
Department.

Article 50 Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the supplemental
expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning July
1, 2009, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Finance
Department.

You are hereby further required and directed to notify and warn the Inhabitants of
the Town of Marblehead aforesaid who are qualified to vote in elections and in
Town affairs to subsequently meet at the several designated polling places in their
respective precincts in said Marblehead to wit:

In Precinct 1 - Polling Place –
OLD TOWN HOUSE
In Precinct 2 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 3 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER




                                       287
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


In Precinct 4 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 5 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 6 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 7 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER

on Monday, the 11th day of May next A.D. 2009 (it being the second Monday in
May) at 7 o’clock in the forenoon then and there to bring into the precinct officers
of their respective precincts their votes on one ballot for the following-named Town
Officers to wit:

5 Selectmen
1 Assessor
1 Cemetery Commissioner
1 Board of Health
1 Housing Authority
1 Library Trustee for 1year unexpired term
2 Library Trustees
2 Electric Light Commissioners
1 Moderator
2 Planning Board
5 Recreation & Park Commissioners
1 School Committee
1 Water and Sewer Commissioner


          For these purposes the polls will be open at each and all of said precincts at
7 o’clock in the forenoon and will be closed at 8 o’clock in the afternoon at each
and all of said precincts and you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting
attested copies thereof at Abbot Hall and ten (10) other conspicuous places in Town
as required by the By-laws not later than thirty (30) days after being closed.
          Hereof fail not and make due return of this Warrant or a certified copy
thereof with our doings thereon, to each of the several precinct wardens at the time
and place of meetings aforesaid and to the Town Clerk as soon as may be before the
said meetings.




                                         288
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Given under our hands at Marblehead aforesaid this 11th day of February 2009.


____________________________________
JACKIE BELF-BECKER, Chairman

____________________________________
HARRY C. CHRISTENSEN, JR.

____________________________________
JUDITH R. JACOBI

____________________________________
JAMES E. NYE

____________________________________
WILLIAM L. WOODFIN, II

Selectmen of Marblehead

A True Copy

Attest:                                 , Constable




                                     289
                          Departmental Information
Emergency:
FIRE                                                   911
POLICE                                                 911

(Note: All phone numbers are 781 Area Code unless otherwise noted.)
Assessments                           Assessors                   631-0236
Birth, Marriage & Death Certificates Town Clerk                   631-0528
Board of Appeals (Zoning)             Engineering                 631-1529
Building Permits                      Building                    631-2220
Burial Permits                        Health                      631-0212
Cemetery                              Cemetery                    631-1182
Collector of Taxes                    Finance                     631-0587
Council on Aging                      Council on Aging            631-6737
Elections                             Town Clerk                  631-0528
Finance Director                      Finance                     631-1705
Fire Prevention                       Fire Dept.                  639-3428
Fuel Oil Storage                      Fire Dept.                  639-3428
Harbormaster                          Harbormaster                631-2386
Health                                Health Dept.                631-0212
Historical Commission                 Selectmen’s Office          639-3425
Library                               Abbot Public Libr.          631-1480
Licenses – alcohol, common victualler
  entertainment, second hand          Selectmen’s Office          631-0000
Licenses – marriage, dog              Town Clerk                  631-0528
Plumbing Pemits                       Building                    639-9151
Police Administration                 Police Dept.                631-1212
Recreation                            Recreation & Park           631-3350
Schools:                              Administration              639-3140
                                      High School                 639-3100
                                      Veterans Middle School      639-3120
                                      Village School              639-3159
                                      Bell                        639-3171
                                      Coffin                      639-3181
                                      Gerry                       639-3186
                                      Glover                      639-3191
                                      Eveleth                     639-3196
Streets, Sidewalks                    Public Works                631-1750
Town Administrator                    Selectmen                   631-0000
Town Treasurer                        Finance                     631-1033
Trees                                 Park & Rec.                 631-3350
Veterans’ Benefits                    Veterans’ Agent             631-0990
Water & Sewer                         Water & Sewer               631-2694
Weights & Measures                    Sealer                      631-0990
Wiring Permits                        Building                    639-9151
Zoning Enforcement                    Building                    631-2220

FEDERAL AND STATE SENATORS AND REPRESENTATIVES:
US Senators:                Edward M. Kennedy 617-565-3170
                            John F. Kerry     617-565-8519
US Representative (6th Dt.) John F. Tierney   978-531-1669
MA Representative (8th Dt.) Lori Ehrlich      617-722-2090
MA Senator (3rd Dt.):       Thomas M. McGee   617-722-1350
