Cover photograph of Old Town House in Market Square taken prior to 1906; there is no sign of
the Gerry School (built in 1906) on the hill behind the building. From the Edward Snow
collection.

In this photo there are three doors in the East wall of the ground floor. The nearest door was the
entrance to the Police Department and the far door was where the Fire Department kept the
Liberty Hose.
        ANNUAL
     TOWN REPORT
    OF THE YEAR 2010



MARBLEHEAD, MASSACHUSETTS
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Board of Selectmen                                  3
Warrant for Annual Town Meeting                     6
May 3, 2010 and Annual
Town Election May 10, 2010
Results of Annual Town Meeting                    20
May 3, 2010
Results of Annual Town Election                   59
May 10, 2010
Warrant for Special State Election                64
January 19, 2010
Results of Special State Election                 65
January 19, 2010
Warrant for Special Election                      66
June 15, 2010
Results for Special Election                      71
June 15, 2010
Warrant for State Primary                         76
September 14, 2010
Results for State Primary                         78
September 14, 2010
Warrant for State Election                        84
November 2, 1010
Results for State Election                        88
November 2, 2010
Officials Elected                                  92
Officials Appointed                                95
Vital Records of 2009 - # of births,              107
marriages, deaths and causes of death
Department Reports:
Abbot Public Library                              108
Board of Assessors                                112
Board of Health                                   114
Building Commissioner and Inspectional            127
Services
Cable TV Oversight Committee                      129
Cemetery Department                               130
Conservation Commission                           132
Council on Aging                                  134
Department of Public Works                        138




                                         1
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Engineering Department                          140
Financial Services                              142
Fire Department                                 145
Fort Sewall Oversight Committee                 161
Harbors and Waters                              162
Marblehead Cultural Council                     164
Marblehead Historical Commission                168
Marblehead Housing Authority                    170
Metropolitan Area Planning Council              180
Municipal Light Department                      182
Old and Historic Districts Commission           190
Planning Board                                  192
Police Department                               194
Recreation, Parks & Forestry                    199
Sealer of Weights & Measures                    208
Shellfish Constables                            209
Task Force Against Discrimination               210
Tree Warden                                     212
Veterans’ Agent                                 213
Water and Sewer Commission                      214
Zoning Board of Appeals                         223
School Reports
Marblehead School Committee members             224
organization and meetings
Admission Requirements                          224
No School Announcement/School Hours             225
Superintendent of Schools                       225
Marblehead School Committee Report              227
Administration, Faculty and Staff               232
2009 MCAS Summary                               249
Scholastic Aptitude Test Scores (SAT)           254
5 year history
Marblehead High School Class of 2009            255
Enrollment Summaries                            259
Town Warrant – Annual Town Meeting              261
May 3, 2010




                                   2
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                         BOARD OF SELECTMEN

The Board of Selectmen meets on the second and fourth Wednesday of each month
at 7:30 PM in the Selectmen’s Meeting Room in Abbot Hall. All meetings are open
to the public. The Board is composed of five members, each elected annually.
Members of the Board of Selectmen are Chairman, James E. Nye, Jackie Belf-
Becker, Judith R. Jacobi, and William L.Woodfin II. Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
served until his retirement from the Board in May and T. Michael Rockett was
elected in May to fill the seat.

In 2010 the Selectmen retained a traffic engineering firm to conduct a study along a
half-mile segment Pleasant Street between Bessom Street/Village Streets and
Baldwin Road/Smith Street. A plan was developed to improve the traffic along the
Pleasant Street corridor and Pleasant Vine Village intersection. The plan included
the purchase of the old gas station at the corner of Vine and Pleasant Street. The
Selectmen sponsored an article on the annual town meeting warrant which passed
town meeting but failed to get the necessary votes on a proposition 2 ½ ballot
question.

With funding from the Historical Commission and the Shattuck Fund the Town was
able to continue to undertake significant work in Abbot Hall including the attic
window replacement, the interior painting and re plastering of the Selectmen’s
meeting room, painting of the basement walls and floors and the restoration of the
stained glass and the Crossing of the Grand Bank painting.

In May, the Town reactivated their sister city partnership with Grasse, France,
hosting a delegation from Grasse including Senator Mayor Jean-Pierre Leleux.
Grasse, France is a coastal community located in the southeast of France. The
original sister city relationship was established in 1986 and reestablished last year.

The Selectmen retained a consultant to conduct an independent assessment of the
Police Department and evaluate a recent police investigation. The purpose of the
study was to present the town with objective information on the recent
investigations and the operations of the Police Department and to make
recommendations on how to address any problems and increase public satisfaction.
Once completed the Board adopted the plan.

In May the Town was informed by the Commonwealth that the Old Town House no
longer complies with the Voters Rights Act with respect to accessibility. The




                                          3
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Selectmen voted to seek a waiver of these requirements and to pursue measures to
make the building universally accessible including reviving the plan to make the
building universally accessible that was proposed in 2000.

The Board of Selectmen entered into an agreement with National Lead for the long
term maintenance of the bike bath and embankment at the Lead Mills site. National
Lead is the responsible party undertaking the remediation of the Lead Mills site
including a portion that is owned by the town. The agreement includes funding for
the long-term maintenance of the areas owned by the town.

As the local licensing authority, the Selectmen renewed and/or issued the following
licenses concerning its licensed serving establishments:

Annual All Alcoholic Restaurant (15)
Annual All Alcoholic – Package Store (5)
Annual All Alcoholic Fraternal Club (3)
Annual All Alcoholic Club (3)
Season All Alcoholic Club (3)
Annual Wine & Malt – Package (1)
Annual Wine & Malt Restaurant (7 Day) (4)
Annual Common Victualler (40)
Annual Entertainment (16)
Sunday Entertainment (13)
Second Hand Dealers (15)
Automatic Amusement Device (15)
Annual Auto Class II (1)
Annual Lodging (3)

In March the Town received a “Transparency Award” at the State House from
Common Cause, an organization that recognizes municipalities for their
transparency. Municipalities receive this e-government award based on their
posting of government bodies agenda’s, minutes, budgets and bylaws. Marblehead
received the award with “distinction” for the information we post on our town
website, www.marblehead.org.

In 2010 the Board of Selectmen mourned the passing of several town volunteers and
employees; Emerson Brown, Charles Grader, Elizabeth Jacobsen and the former
police Chief John R. Russell and Chief George Girard.




                                        4
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


In 2010 long-term employee Dana Snow retired after many years of service to the
town. David Donahue was promoted to DPW Director in April 2010.

The Board values the significant amounts of time volunteers throughout the Town
government and local philanthropic organizations devote working for the benefit of
Marblehead. In addition to thanking the volunteers the board also thanks all of those
who contributed financially to the various funds established for the benefit of the
Town. Also the Board recognizes the efforts and dedication of our town employees
who work extraordinarly well together and truly make the town a special place.

The Board also thanks Anthony M. Sasso, Town Administrator; Rebecca Curran,
Town Planner; and the office staff Deborah Fadden, Kyle Wiley and Jane Tricomi,
for all their assistance this past year and extend our best wishes and thanks to the all
of the citizens of the Town of Marblehead whom we faithfully and conscientiously
strive to represent.


Marblehead Forever!

Faithfully yours,

James E. Nye, Chairman
Jackie Belf-Becker
Judith R. Jacobi
T. Michael Rockett
William L. Woodfin, II




                                           5
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
County of Essex, ss
to Any Constable in the Town of Marblehead
Greeting:

You are hereby required and directed in the name of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts to warn and give notice to the inhabitants of Marblehead, qualified to
vote in elections and in town affairs, to meet at the Marblehead Veterans Middle
School Auditorium, Duncan Sleigh Square, 217 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA,
on Monday, the third day of May next A. D. 2010 (it being the first Monday in
May) at 7:45 o’clock in the afternoon to act on the following articles in the Warrant
for said meeting as follows:

Article 1 Articles in Numerical Order
To see if the Town will vote to adopt an order requiring articles in the Warrant to be
taken up in their numerical order, as requested by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 2 Reports of Town Officers and Committees
To receive the report of the Town Accountant, the reports of the Town Officers, and
special Committees and act thereon.

Article 3 Assume Liability
To see if the Town will assume liability in the manner provided by Section 29 of
Chapter 91 of the General Laws, for all damages that may be incurred by work to be
performed by the Massachusetts Highway Department for the improvement,
development, maintenance and protection of tidal and non tidal rivers and streams,
harbors, tidewaters, foreshores and shores along a public beach in accordance with
Section 11 of Chapter 91 of the General Laws and authorize the Selectmen to
execute and deliver a bond of indemnity therefore to the Commonwealth, or take
any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 4 Accept Trust Property
To see if the Town will vote to accept certain trust property, gifts or grants to be
administered by the Town or modify the terms thereof, or take any other action
relative thereto, as sponsored by Town Counsel.

Article 5 Lease Town Property
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to let or
lease such land, buildings or structures owned by the Town on such terms as they




                                          6
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


may determine, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board
of Selectmen.

Article 6 Unpaid Accounts
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum
of money to provide for the payment of any unpaid accounts brought forward from
previous years, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Director.

Article 7 Ratification of Salary Bylaw
To see if the Town will vote to ratify certain actions taken by the Compensation
Committee under the 1955 Salary Bylaw, Section 3(e) as last amended. Or take any
other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Compensation Committee.

Article 8 Fiscal 2010 School Budget Additional Appropriation
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum
of money to fund additional expenses of the fiscal 2010 school budget, said sum to
be added to article 47, item 101, schools, as voted at Town Meeting in May 2009,
or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 9 Walls and Fences
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for the
construction and reconstruction of walls and fences for the protection of highways
and property, including engineering services in connection therewith; to authorize
the appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or
otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefore; to determine whether this
appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 10 Revolving Funds
To see if the Town will vote to authorize various revolving funds as required by
M.G.L. c 44 s.53E ½, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 11 Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
To see if the Town will raise and appropriate any sums of money for the purchase
of equipment for the several departments of the Town; to authorize the Board of
Selectmen to trade old equipment as part of the purchase price; to determine
whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Committee.




                                        7
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Article 12 Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for
remodeling, reconstructing and making extraordinary repairs to existing Town
buildings and purchase necessary equipment including computer hardware and
software to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or
otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen.

Article 13 Collective Bargaining (IUE/CWE – Local 1776)
To see if the Town will, pursuant to G.L. c. 150E §7, vote to appropriate the sums
of money sufficient to fund the collective bargaining agreement for fiscal year 2011
with Local 1776 of the IUE/CWE, or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by
the Board of Selectmen.


Article 14 Collective Bargaining (Fire)
To see if the Town will, pursuant to G.L. c. 150E §7, vote to appropriate the sums
of money sufficient to fund the collective bargaining agreement for fiscal year 2011
with the International Association of Firefighters AFL/CIO CLC Local 2043, or
take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 15 Collective Bargaining (Police)
To see if the Town will, pursuant to G.L. c. 150E §7, vote to appropriate the sums
of money sufficient to fund the collective bargaining agreement for fiscal year 2011
with Town of Marblehead Police Officers Union, or take any action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 16 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Administrative)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Administrative Pay Schedule; to strike out the pay schedule
as it relates to Administrative personnel, substitute in place thereof the following
new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of
money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 17 Pay Schedule and Reclassification (Traffic Supervisors)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Traffic Supervisors Pay Schedule; to waive the pay schedule




                                         8
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


as it relates to Traffic Supervisor personnel, substitute in place thereof the following
new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of
money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 18 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Seasonal and
Temporary Personnel)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Seasonal and Temporary Personnel Pay Schedules; strike
out the pay schedules as they relate to seasonal and temporary personnel, substitute
in place thereof the following new pay schedules and to transfer from available
funds and/or appropriate a sum of money to make said new pay schedules effective,
or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 19 Compensation - Town Officers
To see if the Town will vote to revise the compensation of the Town Clerk as the
Town by vote may determine and to transfer from available funds and/or
appropriate a sum of money to make said revision effective or take any other action
relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 20 Old Landfill Remediation/Construct New Transfer Station
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for permitting, public bidding and construction for the landfill
closure and new transfer station, including supplemental design services,
constructing a cap for the area(s) encompassing the old landfill, deconstructing the
old transfer station, constructing storm water controls, and constructing a new
transfer station, new Recycling Drop-Off Area, new Swap Shed, and new Yard
Waste Processing Area; to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by
borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by
Board of Health.

Article 21 Landfill Regulatory Compliance Activities
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for continued water quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk
assessment, engineering, and any other services related to the old landfill; to
determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Health.




                                           9
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Article 22 Disposal Area Remediation / Stony Brook Road
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money to be
expended by the Board of Health for disposal area remediation as it relates to Stony
Brook Road and private property(s) on Stony Brook Road, some of which abut land
owned by the Town of Marblehead; to determine whether this appropriation shall
be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Health.

Article 23 Stony Brook Road Clean-up Real Property Purchase
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to purchase,
acquire or take by eminent domain, and to raise and appropriate a sum of money,
either by appropriation, borrowing or otherwise, to fund said purchase or taking
along with all legal costs as part of the clean-up related to the historic operations of
the former landfill, the property and building(s) located at 57 Stony Brook Road,
and more particularly described in a deed found at Book 22473 Page 485 recorded
at the Essex South Registry of Deeds containing 18,430 square feet +/-; or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Health and the Board of
Selectmen.

Article 24 Taking By Eminent Domain – Landfill Closure – Utility Easement
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to purchase,
acquire or take by eminent domain, and to raise and appropriate, either by
appropriation, borrowing or otherwise, a sum of money to fund said purchase or
taking along with all legal costs necessary to obtain a permanent utility easement
for a project known as the Landfill Closure and Transfer Station Project, an interest
in land located in Tioga Way which is a portion of Tioga Way, a private way and
which easement will include approximately 20,640 square feet +/- , as more fully
described in the plan entitled “Town of Marblehead Landfill Closure and Transfer
Station Project, Proposed Tioga Way Easement” and dated January 18, 2010 on file
with the Town Clerk’s office, said land having been determined to be necessary for
the health and welfare of the inhabitants of Marblehead and to be used for
municipal water and sewer purposes; or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 25 Taking by Eminent Domain – Landfill Closure – Sewer Main
Relocation and Water Main
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to purchase,
acquire or take by eminent domain, and to raise and appropriate, either by
appropriation, borrowing or otherwise, a sum of money to fund said purchase or
taking along with all legal costs necessary to obtain a permanent utility easement




                                          10
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


for a project known as the Landfill Closure and Transfer Station Project, an interest
in land located off of Tioga Way which is a portion of Map and Lot 152 – 12 and
which includes approximately 2,160 square feet +/- , as more fully described in the
plan entitled “Town of Marblehead Landfill Closure and Transfer Station Project,
Proposed Water and Sewer Easement” and dated January 18, 2010 on file with the
Town Clerk’s office, said land having been determined to be necessary for the
health and welfare of the inhabitants of Marblehead and to be used for municipal
sewer and water purposes; or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by
the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 26 Taking by Eminent Domain – Storm Water Management
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen, to purchase,
acquire or take by eminent domain, and to raise and appropriate, either by
appropriation, borrowing or otherwise, a sum of money to fund said purchase or
taking along with all legal costs necessary to obtain a permanent storm water
management area for a project known as the Landfill Closure and Transfer Station
Project, an interest in land located off of Green Street which is a portion of Map and
Lot 160 – 39, 160 – 37 and 160 – 38 and which includes approximately 0.75 acres
+/- , as more fully described in the plan entitled “Town of Marblehead Landfill
Closure and Transfer Station Project, Proposed Land Taking on Muldoon Property”
and dated January 18, 2010 on file with the Town Clerk’s office, said land having
been determined to be necessary for the health and welfare of the inhabitants of
Marblehead and to be used for municipal purposes; or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Health.

Article 27 Transfer Station
To see if the Town of Marblehead will keep the Town dump leaf refuse area open
to the public on Sundays between September 15th and December 15th from the hours
of 10:00am – 5:00pm without interruption. The Town will make the necessary staff
scheduling adjustments without any additional expense to the Town. Sponsored by
Betsy Rickards and others.

Article 28 Amend Bylaw
To see if the Town will amend Chapter 255, Street and Sidewalk Regulations, of
the Town of Marblehead Bylaws as follows:
     1. Omit Article I §§ 255-1 through 255-3 in their entirety.
     2. Amend Article III paragraph 255-5 through 255-12 as follows: in each
         instance where the title Surveyor of Highways appears change to Director
         of Public Works
Or to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.




                                         11
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Article 29 Repair Sidewalks
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
making repairs to sidewalks and to determine whether this appropriation shall be
raised by borrowing or otherwise, or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 30 Pleasant Street Improvement Street Corridor – Land Acquisition
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to purchase,
acquire or take by eminent domain, and to raise a sum of money either by
appropriation, borrowing or otherwise, to fund said purchase or taking along with
all legal costs necessary to obtain a parcel of land located at 195 Pleasant Street,
Assessors Map 109 Lots 8 and 9 and owned by Cyr Oil Corporation/Gregg J. Bruett
Trustee and which includes approximately 3738+/-, said land having been
determined to be necessary for the health and welfare of the inhabitants of
Marblehead and to be used for municipal purposes; or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 31 Pleasant Street Corridor Improvement Project
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to fund the design,
including professional services, and construction of improvements to the Pleasant
Street corridor from the intersection of Village Vine and Pleasant Streets to Smith
Street, including but not limited to traffic light upgrades, roadway reconfigurations
and sidewalk improvements, and to raise said sum by borrowing or otherwise; or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 32 Water Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction, reconstruction and extending of
water mains, replacement of water meters, appurtenances, engineering, consultants,
surveys including revenue studies and other general Water Department purposes,
and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by
purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements necessary to take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 33 Sewer Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction or reconstruction of sewers for
sanitary purposes and for sewerage disposal, pump stations, original pumping
equipment, metering equipment, safety equipment, replacement of said equipment,




                                         12
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


engineering, consultants, surveys, including revenue studies and other general
Sewer Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or
easements necessary to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 34 Storm Drainage Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the construction or
reconstruction of sewers for surface drainage purposes, and to authorize the
appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise,
any land or easements necessary therefore, and to raise the money for such purposes
by the issue of bonds or notes or in any other manner, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 35 Water and Sewer Commission Claims
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the
Board of Selectmen acting jointly to compromise any claims for damages or suits
pending against the Town of Marblehead on account of acts which may have
occurred during the construction of the water, sewer and storm water system or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 36 Capital Improvements - Abbot Public Library
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
remodeling, renovation or making extraordinary repairs, including all professional
architectural, design or engineering fees, to the Abbot Public Library; to determine
whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Abbot Public Library Board of
Trustees.

Article 37 Financial Assistance for Conservation
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Conservation Commission and other
proper officers of the Town to apply for financial assistance from public and private
sources to be expended by the Conservation Commission for the purchase of vacant
land and any other purpose, authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General
Laws as amended, or to reimburse the Town for sums of money expended for such
purposes, or both, and to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Conservation Commission.




                                         13
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Article 38 Traffic Offenses / Driving While Distracted
To see if the Town will amend the Town of Marblehead Bylaws by adding a new
Article III in Chapter 264 Vehicles and Traffic, as follows:

Article III Moving Violations

§264-22 Failure to Maintain Control of a Motor Vehicle

        A. Purpose: To maintain good order and provide for the public’s safety
           while driving, using, walking and/or interacting on the streets and
           ways located in Marblehead.

        B. Authority: This provision is adopted pursuant to Article 89, Section 6,
           of the Amendments to the Massachusetts Constitution, G.L. c. 40, §
           21 and G.L. c. 90C.

        C. Definition. “Operation of a Motor Vehicle While Distracted” means
           the operation of a motor vehicle by a person who, while operating the
           vehicle, is engaged in the activity of typing on or reading from a
           wireless communication device (also known as “texting” or
           “emailing” or receiving or sending or reading communications from
           and/or on said device) while driving, for purposes other than making a
           call on a cellular telephone. Further that said behavior is not necessary
           to the operation of the vehicle; and that actually impairs, or would
           reasonably be expected to impair, the ability of the person to safely
           operate the vehicle.

        D. Violation: Failure To Maintain Control of a Motor Vehicle. A person
           who engages in the Operation of a Motor Vehicle While Distracted
           shall be deemed in violation of this bylaw.

        E. Exceptions: This bylaw shall not apply to public safety personnel
           including the Town of Marblehead Police Department and Fire
           Department, who are using computer and text generated information
           in the performance of their duties.

        F. Penalty: Penalties for violations hereunder shall in accordance with
           G.L. c. 90C as follows:

                 a.   First Offense:         $ 35.00




                                        14
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                 b.   Second Offense:        $ 75.00
                 c.   Third Offense:         $ 150.00

         G. Enforcement: The Chief of Police and/or his/her employees or
             appointees shall be responsible for enforcement of this bylaw in
             accordance with G.L. c. 90C.
Or to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 39 Release Existing Easement
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen, with the approval
of town counsel as to form, to release, convey, transfer, exchange or otherwise
dispose of all or any portion of the utility easement as described as an easement
over 14 Wallace Road, shown as Old Parcel A on a plan entitled Plan for Sewer
Easements Ocean Ave. – Bubier Rd. in Marblehead, MA, dated August 4, 1997,
and recorded in Plan Book 390, Plan 60 to Dorothy Jarvis, owner of 14 Wallace
Road, Marblehead, Massachusetts, by deed dated January 20, 1981, recorded with
the Essex County Registry of Deeds at Book 6786, page 274, or take any other
action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 40 485 Lafayette Street / Western Non-Utility Section / Activity and
Use Limitation
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to negotiate and
enter into and place an Activity and Use Limitation on the property known as the
“Western Non-Utility Section” located adjacent to 485 Lafayette Street, the former
Chadwick Lead Mill Site, as part of the remediation of hazardous material being
undertaken by NL Industries Inc. and as more particularly described in a plan
entitled “Site Plan Showing Proposed Cleanup Areas” dated December 2009 by
Woodward & Curran in the area shown as the “Western Non-Utility Section”
which said plan is on file with the Town Clerk, or take any action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 41 485 Lafayette Street / Bike Path / Activity and Use Limitation
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to negotiate and
enter into and place an Activity and Use Limitation on the property known as the
“Bike Path” located adjacent to 485 Lafayette Street, the former Chadwick Lead
Mill Site, as part of the remediation of hazardous material being undertaken by NL
Industries Inc. and as more particularly described in a plan entitled “Site Plan
Showing Proposed Cleanup Areas” dated December 2009 by Woodward & Curran
in the area shown as the “Bike Path Section” on said plan which said plan is on file




                                        15
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


with the Town Clerk, or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen.

Article 42 Artificial Turf Field – Piper Field, Marblehead High School
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the design,
installation and maintenance of an artificial turf field at Piper Field, Marblehead
High School, 2 Humphrey Street; including all requisite professional fees such as
feasibility studies, design, architectural and engineering fees and all requisite
maintenance equipment including the purchase of all necessary tractors, machinery
and sports equipment suitable for artificial turf; to determine whether this
appropriation shall be raised by issuance of bonds or notes or otherwise and take
any other actions relative to this project. Sponsored by Bruce Bial and others.

Article 43 North Shore Regional Vocational School District
To see if the Town will vote to approve the gross operating and maintenance budget
of the North Shore Technical High School and appropriate a sum of money for the
Town’s assessment of the same, or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 44 Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Town to become a member of the
Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District (the “District”) in
accordance with Chapter 463 of the Acts of 2004 (as amended); and to further
authorize the Town to approve the debt of the district authorized or to be authorized
in the amount of $133,000,000.00 dollars, the Town’s share of which shall be
apportioned to the Town based on the Town’s projected percentage of enrollment
for the proposed Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical High School, to be
expended under the direction of the District for construction of the Essex North
Shore Agricultural and Technical High School, which school facility shall have an
anticipated useful life as an educational facility for the instruction of school
children for at least 50 years, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored
by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 45 Amend Dog By-law
To See if the Town of Marblehead will vote to amend Article III § 13-10 (C) of the
Town Bylaw which currently reads:
C. Licensing period. The licensing period shall be from April 1 to March 31 of
each calendar year.




                                         16
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


TO:
C. Licensing period. The licensing period shall be from January 1st to December
31st of each calendar year.
or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Town Clerk.

Article 46 Marblehead-Glover/Eveleth Project-
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate, borrow or transfer from available funds,
a sum of money to be expended under the direction of the Glover School Building
Committee for the Glover/Eveleth School Building Project, to be located at either
Parcel 40-4-0 situated at 9 Maple Street or Parcel 25-21-0 situated at 3 Brook Road,
Marblehead, Massachusetts, which school facility shall have an anticipated useful
life as an educational facility for the instruction of school children of at least 50
years, and for which the Town may be eligible for a school construction grant from
the Massachusetts School Building Authority (MSBA). The MSBA’s grant
program is a non-entitlement, discretionary program based on need, as determined
by the MSBA, and any project costs the Town incurs in excess of any grant
approved by and received from the MSBA shall be the sole responsibility of the
Town. Any grant that Marblehead may receive from the MSBA for the Project
shall not exceed the lesser of (1) forty-percent (40%) of eligible, approved project
costs, as determined by the MSBA, or (2) the total maximum grant amount
determined by the MSBA. Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 47 Schools Construction and/or Renovation Program
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
remodeling, construction, purchasing technology software and equipment,
furnishing or making extraordinary repairs, including all professional feasibility
studies, design, architectural and engineering fees, to the Gerry, Coffin, Bell,
Eveleth, Glover, Village, Veterans Middle and High School and/or any other
schools and their respective playing fields, and to raise the money for these
purposes by the issue of bonds or notes, by the transfer of an unused/prior
appropriation and borrowing authority for such purposes, or in any other manner, or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 48 School Department Computer, Support Equipment, and
Technology Infrastructure.
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
purchasing computers, technology infrastructure, support software and equipment
and necessary accessory furnishings and to raise the money for these purposes by
the issuance of bonds or notes or in any other manner, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.




                                         17
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Article 49 Available Funds appropriate to Reduce Tax Rate
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate free cash balance in the hands of the
Town Treasurer, including any surplus or part of surplus in the Electric Light
Department for use of the Assessors in making the tax rate or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Director.

Article 50 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the necessary and
usual expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2010, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Finance
Department.

Article 51 Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the supplemental
expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning July
1, 2010, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Finance
Department.

You are hereby further required and directed to notify and warn the Inhabitants of
the Town of Marblehead aforesaid who are qualified to vote in elections and in
Town affairs to subsequently meet at the several designated polling places in their
respective precincts in said Marblehead to wit:

In Precinct 1 - Polling Place –
OLD TOWN HOUSE
In Precinct 2 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 3 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 4 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 5 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 6 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 7 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER




                                        18
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


on Monday, the 10th day of May next A.D. 2010 (it being the second Monday in
May) at 7 o’clock in the forenoon then and there to bring into the precinct officers
of their respective precincts their votes on one ballot for the following-named Town
Officers to wit:

5 Selectmen
1 Town Clerk
1 Moderator
1 Assessor
1 Cemetery Commissioner
1 Cemetery Commissioner for 2 year unexpired term
1 Board of Health
1 Housing Authority
2 Library Trustees
2 Electric Light Commissioners
1 Planning Board
5 Recreation & Park Commissioners
2 School Committee
2 Water and Sewer Commissioners
1 Water and Sewer Commissioner for 2 year unexpired term

          For these purposes the polls will be open at each and all of said precincts at
7 o’clock in the forenoon and will be closed at 8 o’clock in the afternoon at each
and all of said precincts and you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting
attested copies thereof at Abbot Hall and ten (10) other conspicuous places in Town
as required by the Bylaws not later than thirty (30) days after being closed.
          Hereof fail not and make due return of this Warrant or a certified copy
thereof with our doings thereon, to each of the several precinct wardens at the time
and place of meetings aforesaid and to the Town Clerk as soon as may be before the
said meetings.

         Given under our hands at Marblehead aforesaid this 17th day of February
2010.


Constable




                                          19
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                     Town of Marblehead
                    Annual Town Meeting
            Monday May 3, 2010 & Tuesday May 4, 2010
With A quorum met the Moderator called the 2010 Annual Town
Meeting to order at 7:45pm

Article 1        Articles in Numerical Order
                 Voted: That the articles be taken up in
                 their numerical order.

Recognized Harry Christensen & Amy Drinker for their years of service
As they are not seeking re-election

Article 2        Reports of Town Officers and Committees
                 Voted: To receive the report of the Town Accountant,
                 the reports of the Town Officers, and Special
                 Committees.

Article 3        Assume Liability
                 Voted: To see if the Town will assume liability in the
                 manner provided by Section 29 of Chapter 91 of the
                 General Laws as most recently amended by Chapter 5,
                 Acts of 1995, for all damages that may be incurred by
                 work to be performed by the Department of Public
                 Works of Massachusetts for the improvement,
                 development, maintenance and protection of tidal and
                 non tidal rivers and streams, harbors, tidewaters,
                 foreshores and shores along a public beach in accordance
                 with Section II of Chapter 91 of the General Laws and
                 authorize the Selectmen to execute and deliver a bond of
                 indemnity therefor to the Commonwealth.

Article 4        Accept Trust Property
                 Voted: That this article be indefinitely postponed

Article 5        Lease Town Property
                 Voted: To allow the Board of Selectmen and School
                 Committee to let or lease such land, buildings or




                                       20
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


             structures owed by the Town on such terms as they may
             determine.

Article 6    Unpaid Accounts
             Unanimously Voted: To authorize the payment of
             $3,416.00 for the payment of any unpaid accounts
             brought forward from previous years, from the following
             grants, capital funds, revolving funds or Article 49, May
             2009 Annual Town Meeting - Expenses of Several
             Departments as follows:

             Item 101School Budget                        2,880.00
             Art 39, 2008 Village School Renovation         536.00

Article 7    Ratification of Salary Bylaw
             Voted: That this article be indefinitely postponed

Article 8    Fiscal 2010 School Budget Additional Appropriation
             Voted That this article be indefinitely postponed

Article 9    Walls and Fences
             Voted: That this article be indefinitely
             postponed

Article 10   Revolving Funds
             Voted: To continue the authorization of the following revolving
             funds as required by M.G.L. C.44, s.53E 1/2 as recommended by
             the Board of Selectmen.

        1.        Historical Commission Gift Shop Revolving Fund
             in the amount of $13,000 in fiscal 2011 for the use of the
             Historical Commission to be taken from Historical
             Commission revenues from the sale of items at the gift
             shop operated by said commission; said appropriation to
             be used for expenses of operating said gift shop; and
             expended by the Commission.
        2.        Recreation and Park Revolving Fund in the
             amount of $300,000 in fiscal 2011 for the use of the
             Recreation and Park Commission to be taken from
             revenues in connection with recreation programs and




                                   21
        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


     activities including teen center, program fees, rentals,
     miscellaneous sales, promotional fees, $5.00 of out of
     town parking fees charged on weekends and various
     recreational fund raising events; said appropriation to be
     used for the expense of said activities including
     equipment and promotions; and expended by the
     Commission.
3.        Council on Aging Revolving Fund in the amount
     of $250,000 in fiscal 2011 for the use of the Council on
     Aging Board of Directors to be taken from revenues in
     connection with the meals on wheels, and nutrition
     programs, mini-bus donations, trips, miscellaneous
     programs, instructional classes, recreational programs,
     games and tournaments, luncheons and entertainment,
     and other activities including program fees, fund raising,
     rentals, miscellaneous sales and promotional fees; said
     appropriation to be used for the expense of said activities
     and trips, including equipment and promotions; and
     expended by the Council on Aging Board of Directors.
4.        Dog Officer/Animal Control Officer Revolving
     Fund in the amount of $20,000 in fiscal 2011 for the use
     of the Dog Officer to be taken from revenues in
     connection with fees, reimbursements, deposits and
     refunds of animal medical expenses including spay and
     neuter expenses, miscellaneous other sales and various
     fund raising events;' said appropriation to be used for the
     expense of said programs and activities including
     medical bills, animal food, pet supplies and equipment,
     and promotional expenses; and expended by the Dog
     Officer/ Animal Control Officer.
5.        RAD Program Revolving Fund in the amount of
     $7,500 in fiscal 2011 for the use of the Police Chief to be
     taken from revenues in connection with tuition, fees,
     reimbursements, miscellaneous sales, gifts and donations
     of the RAD program; said appropriation to be used for
     the expense of said program including salaries and
     expenses including equipment.
6.        School Tuition Revolving Fund in the amount of
     $40,000 in fiscal 2011 for the use of the School
     Committee to be taken from revenues in connection with




                            22
         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


      tuition's from nonimmigrant foreign students; said
      appropriation to be used for the expenses of instruction
      including salaries, instructional supplies and equipment.
7.         Commercial Waste Revolving Fund in the amount
      of $450,000 in fiscal 2011 for the use of the Board of
      Health to be taken from revenues in connection with
      commercial waste disposal receipts; said fund to be
      expended for the cost of solid waste disposal.
8.         Conservation Fines Revolving Fund in the amount
      of $10,000 in fiscal 2011 for the use of the Conservation
      Commission to be taken from revenues in connection
      with receipts collected from fines assessed by the
      commission; said fund to be expended for remediation of
      wetlands violations and for the care and maintenance of
      lands under the control and jurisdiction of the
      Conservation Commission.
9.         Sump Pump Improvement Revolving Fund in the
      amount of $25,000 in fiscal 2011 for the use of the
      Sewer and Water Commission; to be taken from
      revenues in connection with receipts collected from
      money received as a result of permitting fees; said fund
      to be expended for the aid in removal of sump pumps
      currently tied into the sewer system.
10.        Special Education Revolving Fund in the amount
      of $450,000 in fiscal 2011 for the use of the School
      Committee; revenues to be taken from tuition collected
      for special education students tuitioned in to the
      Marblehead Public Schools and from funds collected to
      pay for the other special education contracted services
      for out of district special education students being
      provided service through the North Shore Special
      Education Consortium and other approved special
      education public and private placements; said funds to be
      expended on costs directly related to the special
      education programs provided to these out of district
      students.
11.        Storm Water By-Law Revolving Fund in the
      amount of $10,000 in fiscal 2011 for the use of the
      conservation Commission; to be taken from revenues in
      connection with receipts collected from application fees




                            23
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


             associated with the town’s storm water management and
             erosion control regulations; said funds to be expended
             for expenses related to the enforcement and
             administration of the Storm water By-Law.

Article 11   Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
             Voted: That the sum of $449,615.00 be appropriated,
             and to meet this appropriation; $35,000.00 to be
             transferred from Sewer Retained Earnings, $35,000.00 is
             to be transferred from Water Retained Earnings and
             $379,615.00 is to be raised by taxation. To include the
             following:

             Waste Collection Department        Highway Depart.
             1 Front End Loader                 1 Street Sweeper
             Drain Department                   Sewer Department
             1 Utility Vehicle                  1 Pick-Up Truck (1)
             Water Department
             1 Pick-Up Truck (2)

             1. From Sewer Retained Earnings
             2. From Water Retained Earnings

Article 12   Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
             Voted: That the sum of $161,500.00 be
             appropriated. $160,000.00 to be raised by
             taxation and $1,500.00 to be taken from the sale
             of lots fund.

             Mary Alley Building                Park Department
             Install New Windows                Walk Behind Mower
             Cemetery Department                Fire Department
             Install New Rug in Chapel          New Turnout Gear
             Police Department                  Franklin St. Overhead Door
             Replace Police Station Roof        Paint Fire Headquarters
             Replace Lobby Floor Tiles          Paint Franklin St.
                                                Hoses & Nozzles
             Wire Inspector
             Safety Inspection on Lift Truck




                                   24
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Article 13           Collective Bargaining (IUE/CWE – Local 1776)
                     Voted: To amend the Classification and Wage Salary Plan by
                     changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassifying
                     certain positions in the IUE/CWA (Local 1776) Pay Schedule: to
                     waive Section 8 of the 1955 Salary By-Law as last amended., by
                     striking ou the pay schedule as they relate to IUE/CWA (Local
                     1776) and sub statute in place thereof the following new pay
                     schedules as they relate to said members.

                                MMEA Salary Schedule
                                 Effective July 1, 2010
GP    Title                    Dept             Step 1   Step 2   Step 3    Step 4   Step 5
28    Engineer Technician      Eng              775.45   821.04    866.64   912.24   948.74
      Senior Clerk II          Assessor
      Mechanic Supervisor      W/S
      Special Labor III        W/S/Drn
      Adult Librarian          Lib
      Young Adult
      Librarian                Lib
      Tech Services
      Librarian                Lib
      Childrens Librarian      Lib
27    Working
      Foreman/Tree             Rec/Park/
      Surgeon                  Tree             730.56   773.53    816.53   859.48   893.86
      E-911
      Dispatch/Supervisor      Pol
      Water Tech               W/S
      Mech/Pipefitter II       W/S
      Mech/TV Spec             W/S
26                             Fin Assr Hbr
      Senior Clerk             Lib Cem          685.72   726.05    766.36   806.71   838.97
                               Rec/Park/
                               Tree/Health
                               Hwy Pol Sel
      Billing Technician       W/S
      Special Labor II         Cem WColl
      Field Craftsman          Rec/Park/
      Mechanic                 Tree
      Maint Craftsman          Rec/Park/
      Mechanic                 Tree
      Working Forman           Rec/Park/




                                           25
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


     Bldgs/ Grounds         Tree
     Sanitarian             Health
                            Hwy Drn
     Mechanic               WColl Cem
     Leader Heavy
     Equipment Op           Hwy
     Chief Clerk            W/S
     E-911 Dispatch         Sel
     Library Para/Prof      Lib
     Supev Transfer
     Station                WColl
     Mech/Pipefitter        W/S
     Special Clerk


25   Tree
     Climber/Maintenance                      642.36   680.04   717.74   755.43   785.65
                            Eng Hlth Sel
     Sr Day Coordinator     TC
     Activities             Rec/Park/
     Coordinator            Tree
     Heavy Equipment
     Operator               Bldg W/S
                            COA
     Heavy Equipment
     Operator/Collector     COA
     Library Coord-         Rec/Park/
     Circulation/Supplies   Tree
                            W/S WColl
     Special Labor I        Cem Hwy
     Special Labor II       WColl
                            Lib
                            Drn
                            Rec/Park/
                            Tree
24                          Cem Drn
     General Labor IV       Hwy WColl         604.65   640.87   677.04   713.22   741.74
                            Lib/Pol PB
     Special Labor I        W/S
                            Rec/Park/
     Maintence Craftsman    Tree
     Recreation             Rec/Park/
     Technician             Tree




                                         26
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


      Park Maint.            Rec/Park/
      /Groundskeeper         Tree
      Library Technician     Lib
      Program & Volunteer
      Coor                   Lib
23    General Clerk          Pol              568.82   602.40    635.95   669.51   696.29
      General Labor III      Pol PB
      Childrens Senior
      Library Assistant      Lib
      Library Technical
      Assistant              Lib
                             Rec/Park/
      Park/Forestry Intern   Tree
22    Chauffeur              COA MOW          540.20   566.22    592.19   618.22   642.95
      Transfer Station
      Operator               WColl
21    Senior Library
      Assistant              Lib              523.99   542.84    561.69   580.55   603.77
      General Labor I        Lib PB
20                                            500.63   506.65   512.69    518.71   539.45

                  And to fund this contract by appropriating the sum of $923134.00
                  as reflected in Article 50.

                  Provided; however, these schedules shall not be effective and no
                  increase shall be paid until the integrated contract between the
                  IUE/CWA (Local 1776) and the Town is executed and delivered
                  to the town

Article 14        Collective Bargaining (Fire)
                  Voted: To waive section 8 of the 1955 Salary By-Laws as last
                  amended by striking out the pay schedule as it relates to Fire
                  Department Personnel and substitute in place thereof the
                  following new pay schedule as it relates to said personnel.




                                         27
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                                          Fire Pay Scale
                                       Effective 7/1/2010
             Group Title           Step 1      Step 2    Step 3     Step 4      Step 5*
             01      Firefighters    758.00     811.06    867.83     902.54      922.54
             02      Lieutenants     867.83     928.60    993.61 1033.35        1053.35
             03      Captains        993.61 1063.13 1137.59 1183.09             1203.09
                 *Firefighters with 20 or more years of service with the
                 Marblehead Fire Department

                  And to fund this contract by appropriating $75,697.00 as set forth
                  in Article 50.

                  Provided, however, these schedules shall not be effective and no
                  increase shall be paid until the full signed intergraded contract
                  between the International Association of Firefighters and the
                  Town is executed and delivered to the Town

Article 15        Collective Bargaining (Police)
                  Voted: To waive Section 8 of the 1955 Salary By-Laws as last
                  amended by striking out he pay schedule as it relates to Police
                  Department Personnel and substitute in place thereof the
                  following new pay schedule as it relates to said personnel.


                                         Police Pay Scale
                                        Effective 7/1/2010
                                                                                 20+
                                                                                Years
             Group Title         Step 1      Step 2     Step 3   Step 4        Step 5*
             02     Patrolman      758.00     811.06     867.83   910.62        929.85
             04     Sergeants      867.83     928.60     993.61 1041.43        1060.66
             06     Lieutenants    993.61 1063.13 1137.59 1191.17              1210.40
             08     Captains     1137.59 1217.26 1296.88 1356.84               1376.07
                 *Continuous years of service with the Marblehead Police
                 Department

                  And to fund this contract by appropriating, $51,905.00 as set forth
                  in Article 50.




                                         28
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                Provided, however, these schedules shall not be effective and no
                increase shall be paid until the full signed intergrated contract
                between the Marblehead Police Union and the Town is executed
                and delivered to the Town.

Article 16      Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Administrative)
                Voted: To amend the classification and Wage Salary Plan by
                changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassifying
                certain positions in the Administrative Schedule: to waive
                Section 8 of the 1955 Salary By-Law as last amended. By striking
                out the pay schedule as it relates to administrative personnel.
                Substitute in place thereof the following new pay schedule as it
                relates to said personnel:

                      Administrative Salary Schedule
                         Effective July 1, 2010 – 2%
Group    Title              Step 1    Step 2     Step 3    Step 4     Step 5
59       Town               1664.28 1802.09 1939.88        2077.64    2215.43
         Administrator
58                          1498.16 1622.37 1746.57        1870.78    1994.98
57       Dir
         Finance/Town
         Accountant         1349.13 1460.93 1572.68        1684.49    1796.27
         Police Chief
         Fire Chief
         Supt
         Water/Sewer
56       Assistant
         Assessor           1212.53 1313.42 1414.35        1515.26    1616.19
         Director Public
         Health
         Director
         Library
55       Harbormaster       1091.42 1182.24 1273.08        1363.89    1454.72
         Supt
         Recreation/Park
         Building
         Commissioner
         Director Public
         Works




                                      29
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


     Assistant Supt
     Water/Sewer
     Engineering &
     Conservation
     Adm
     Assistant
     Director
     Accounting
     Director
     Council on
     Aging
     Town Planner
54   Assistant
     Director
     Revenue           982.73   1063.84   1145.00   1226.12   1307.23
     Assistant
     Director
     Library
     Asst
     Director/Public
     Works
     Public Health
     Nurse
     Plumbing
     Inspector
     Wire Inspector
53   Superintendent
     Cemetery          884.91   957.89    1030.86   1103.85   1176.81
     Local Inspector
     Building
     Recreation
     Supervisor
     Assistant Wire
     Inspector
     Office Manager
     Sewer/Water
     Payroll
     Administrator
     Asst Director/
     Tree Warden




                                 30
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


         Asst
         Director/Public
         Works
52       Assistant
         Revenue
         Officer            830.58    888.03    945.46     1002.93    1060.35
         Health
         Inspector
         Veterans
         Agent/Sealer
         Assistant
         Harbormaster
         Accounting &
         Website
         Assistant
         Administrative
         Aid Selectmen
51       Dog Officer       788.66     839.90    891.13     942.38     993.62
         Accounting
         Assistant
50       Administrative
         Clerk             709.50      757.65     805.75    853.88     902.04
49                         639.63      682.71     725.79    768.86     811.99
                 And to fund this contract by appropriating the sum of
                 $53,563 as set forth in Article 50.

Article 17       Pay Schedule and Reclassification
                 (Traffic Supervisors)
                 Voted
                 To fund this contract by appropriating the sum of
                 $2,298.00 as set forth in Article 50.

Article 18       Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule
                 (Seasonal and Temporary Personnel)
                 Voted: To waive section 8 of the 1955 Salary By-Laws as last
                 amended by Striking out the pay schedules as they relate to
                 Seasonal and Temporary Personnel and substitute in place thereof
                 the following new pay schedules as they relate to said employees:




                                       31
               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                       Seasonal Personal Pay Schedule
                            Effective July 1, 2010
Group   Title            Dept              Step 1 Step 2   Step 3
27      Sr.              HM                657.69 698.75   739.89
        Seasonal
        Harbor Asst
26                                       617.29   655.88   694.43
25      Beach            Rec/Park/Tree   578.35   614.29   650.46
        Supervisor
        Park Police      Rec/Park/Tree
24      Summer           Finance         543.73   578.35   612.98
        Acct
        Assistant
        Summer           Finance
        Programmer
        Asst
        Seasonal         HM
        Harbor Asst
23      Summer           Finance         511.97   544.07   576.17
        Acct
        Trainee
        Summer           Finance
        Programmer
        Trainee
        General          Hwy/PW/Waste
        Laborer III
        Recreation       Rec/Park/Tree
        Leader,
        Sailing
22      General          Sewer/Water     491.84   516.67   541.58
        Laborer B
        Recreation       Rec/Park/Tree
        Leader, Arts
        & Crafts
        Recreation       Rec/Park/Tree
        Leader,
        Athletics
        Recreation       Rec/Park/Tree
        Leader,
        Facilities




                                   32
            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


     Recreation     Rec/Park/Tree
     Leader,
     Playgrounds
     Recreation     Rec/Park/Tree
     Leader,
     Tennis
     Lifeguard      Rec/Park/Tree
     Seasonal       Public Bld/Insp
     Custodian
21   Seasonal                         483.16   501.17   519.21
     Laborer        Cemetery
     General
     Laborer B      Health
     Data Entry     Public
     Clerk          Bldg/Insp
20   Summer                           473.08   478.84   484.60
     Clerical       Finance
     Beach
     Maintenance
     Person         Rec/Park/Tree
     Forestry
     Worker         Rec/Park/Tree
     Grounds
     Caretaker      Rec/Park/Tree
     Recreational
     Instructor     Rec/Park/Tree
     Seasonal
     Labor          Rec/Park/Tree
2    General                          449.46   469.68
     Labor C
B    Custodian      Lib               353.91   371.60   390.26

     Summer
     Asst           Dog Off




                                33
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                             Temporary Personal Pay Schedule
                                  Effective July 1, 2010
GP   Title            Dept.    Step 1     Step 2 Step 3 Step 4          Step 5
26   Heavy            Hwy, HM 642.36      680.04 717.74 755.42          785.65
     Equipment        Waste
     Operator
25   Senior Clerk     Finance      578.35    614.41   650.46   686.51   722.57
24                    Assr,Sel,F   543.73    578.35   612.98   647.59   682.17
     General Clerk    ire
     Vol/Comm
     Res Coord        COA
     Prgm/Vol
     Coord            Library
     E-911
     Dispatch         Sel
23   Special                       511.97    544.07   576.17   608.26   640.37
     Clerk-Rev        Finance
     General
     Laborer III      Health
22                                 491.84    516.67   541.58   566.41   591.34
21   Temporary        Cem,         483.16    501.17   519.21   537.26   555.28
     Laborer          COA
     Temp Special
     Labor I          Library
20                                 473.08    478.84   484.60   490.38   496.13
14   Sr. Staff                     672.12    703.42   736.34   770.90   807.15
     Engineer         Eng
13   Tech Ser                      642.30    672.12   703.42   736.34   770.90
     Librarian        Lib
     Adult
     Librarian        Lib
     Child
     Librarian        Lib
     Young Adult
     Librarian        Lib
12                                 613.94    642.30   672.12   703.42   736.34
11   Sanitarian       Hlh          586.81    613.94   642.30   672.12   703.42
10                                 561.11    586.81   613.93   642.30   672.12
9    Sp. Labor C      Lib           536.54   561.11   586.81   613.94   642.30




                                      34
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


      Library Para-
      Prof             Lib
      Asst Dog
      Officer          Dog Off
8                                   513.12     536.54    561.11    586.81    613.94
7     Special Clerk    Hlth, Assr   513.12     536.54    561.11    586.81
                       Cem,Swr/
                       Wtr
      Library Tech     Lib
      Lib Tech or
      Tec Adm          Lib
6     Chauffeur        COA          513.12     536.54    561.11
5     Sr. Library                   513.12     536.54
      Asst             Lib
      General Clerk    Finance
4                                     490.80    513.12
3     Unclassified                    469.68    490.80
      Labor
      Data Entry
      Oper
2     Library                         449.46    469.68
      Assistant        Library
1     Temporary                       430.25    449.46
      Clerk
                 And to fund this contract by appropriating the sum of $6,403 as
                 set forth in Article 50.

Article 19      Compensation - Town Officers
                Voted
                That the yearly compensation of the Town Officer named in this
                article be as follows:

                          Town Clerk                                  $68,237.51
                Said amount to be in full compensation for services as Town
                Clerk. All fees received by the Town Clerk in his official
                capacity to be accounted for to the Town Revenue Officer.
                That the Town Clerk as elected and having served in that position
                or as a regular full-time employee for five consecutive years, and
                for each applicable additional five years on such basis, shall be
                paid longevity pay annually, in addition to her weekly salary.




                                       35
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


             Eligibility will be determined on November 30 each year and
             payment made to the official with the first regular payroll of
             December of that year. Only those in office on the determination
             date and qualified by their consecutive years of service, as
             described above, shall receive longevity pay for the calendar year.
                       Annual longevity for Town Clerk
                       Pay Schedule

                      Not less than 5 years                       $300.00
                      Not less than 10 years                       400.00
                      Not less than 15 years                       500.00
                      Not less than 20 years                       600.00
                      Not less than 25 years                       700.00
                      30 years and over                            800.00

Article 20   Old Landfill Remediation/Construction New Transfer Station
              Counted vote
              In Favor 484         Against 63
              2/3 vote achieved
              Motion Passed
             Voted: That the sum of $22,231,834.00 be appropriated to be
             expended by the Board of Health for the permitting, public
             bidding and construction for the landfill closure and new transfer
             station, including design services, construction of a cap for the
             areas of the old landfill, deconstruction of the old transfer station,
             constructing storm water controls, and constructing a new transfer
             station, new Recycling Drop-Off area, new Swap Shed, new Yard
             Waste Processing Area, and acquisition of interests in real
             property, and including engineering, testing, legal and related
             costs and fees; to meet said appropriation authorize the Town
             Treasurer, with the approval of the Board of Selectmen, to borrow
             said sum under M.G.L. Chapter 44, or any other enabling
             authority, and further provided that said appropriation shall be
             subject to and contingent upon an affirmative vote of the Town to
             exempt the amounts required for the payment of interest and
             principal on said borrowing from the limitations on taxes imposed
             by M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 21C (Proposition 2½).




                                    36
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Article 21   Landfill Regulatory Compliance Issues
             Voted: That the sum of $821,561.00 be appropriated to be
             expended by the Board of Health for continued water quality
             monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk assessment, engineering, and
             any other services related to the old landfill; $114,600.00 to be
             raised by taxation and $706,961.00 be subject to a proposition 2
             1/2 capital outlay expenditure override.
             Provided that the appropriation in the amount of $706,961.00
             shall not take effect until the Town votes to exempt from the
             limitations on total taxes imposed by G.L.c.59, section 21C
             (Proposition 2 1/2) amounts required for said capital outlay
             expenditures.

Article 22   Disposal Area Remediation / Stonybrook Road
             Voted: That this article be indefinitely postponed.

Article 23   Stony Brook Road Clean-up Real Property Purchase
             Counted Vote
             In favor 546       Against 1
             2/3 vote achieved
             Motion Passed
             Voted: That the Board of Selectmen is hereby authorized to
             purchase, acquire or take by eminent domain the property and
             building(s) located at 57 Stonybrook Road, and more particularly
             described in a deed found at Book 22473 Page 485 recorded at the
             Essex South Registry of Deeds containing 18,430 square feet +/-
             for the purpose of clean up related to the historic operations of the
             former landfill, and that the sum of $899,955.00 be appropriated
             for said purchase and settlement of all claims as against the Town
             by the owners of 57 Stonybrook Road; to meet said appropriation
             authorize the Town Treasurer with the approval of the Board of
             Selectmen, to borrow said sum under M.G.L. c. 44, or any other
             enabling authority, provided that said appropriation shall be
             subject to and contingent upon an affirmative vote of the Town to
             exempt the amounts required for payment of principal and interest
             on said borrowing from the limitations on total taxes imposed by
             M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 21C (Proposition 2 ½).




                                    37
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Article 24   Taking by Eminent Domain – Landfill Closure – Utility
             Easement
             Voted:That the Board of Selectmen is hereby authorized to
             purchase, acquire or take by eminent domain a permanent utility
             easement in land located in Tioga Way which is a portion of
             Tioga Way, a private way and which easement will include
             approximately 20,640 square feet +/-, as more fully described in
             the plan entitled “Town of Marblehead Landfill Closure and
             Transfer Station Project, Proposed Tioga Way Easement” and
             dated January 18, 2010 on file with the Town Clerk’s office.

Article 25   Taking by Eminent Domain – Landfill Closure – Sewer Main
             Relocation and Water Main
             Voted:That the Board of Selectmen is hereby authorized to
             purchase, acquire or take by eminent domain a permanent utility
             easement in land located off of Tioga Way which is a portion of
             Map and Lot 152 – 12 and which includes approximately 2,160
             square feet +/-, as more fully described in the plan entitled “Town
             of Marblehead Landfill Closure and Transfer Station Project,
             Proposed Water and Sewer Easement” and dated January 18,
             2010 on file with the Town Clerk’s office

Article 26   Taking by Eminent Domain – Storm Water
             Management
             Voted: That the Board of Selectmen is hereby authorized to
             purchase, acquire or take by eminent domain a permanent storm
             water management area and roadway easement in the land located
             off of Green Street which is a portion of Map and Lot 160 – 39,
             160 – 37 and 160 – 38 and which includes approximately 0.75
             acres +/-, as more fully described in the plan entitled “Town of
             Marblehead Landfill Closure and Transfer Station Project,
             Proposed Land Taking on Muldoon Property” and dated January
             18, 2010 on file with the Town Clerk’s office.

Article 27   Transfer Station
             Voted: That this article be indefinitely postponed.




                                    38
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Article 28        Amend Bylaw
                  Voted: To amend Chapter 255, Street and Sidewalk Regulations,
                  of the Town of Marblehead Bylaws as follows:
             3.   Omit Article I §§ 255-1 through 255-3 in their entirety.
             4.   Amend Article III paragraph 255-5 through 255-12 as follows: in
                  each instance where the title Surveyor of Highways appears
                  change to Director of Public Works

Article 29        Repair Sidewalks
                  Not Approved
                  Voted: That this article be indefinitely postponed.

Article 29        Sidewalks Improvements
                  Voted: That the sum of $100,000.00 be appropriated for the
                  design, engineering, repair and reconstruction of sidewalks
                  throughout the town; provided further that said appropriation be
                  subject to a proposition 2 ½ capital outlay expenditure override,
                  and that the appropriation in the amount of $100,000.00 shall not
                  take effect until the Town votes to exempt from the limitations on
                  total taxes imposed by M.G.L. chapter 59, section 21C
                  (Proposition 2 ½) amounts required for said capital outlay
                  expenditures.

Article 30        Pleasant Street Improvement Street Corridor – Land
                  Acquisition
                  Voted: That the Board of Selectmen is hereby authorized to
                  purchase, acquire or take by eminent domain the parcel of land
                  located at 195 Pleasant Street, Assessor Map 109 Lots 8 and 9
                  owned by Cyr Oil Corporation/Greg J. Bruett Trustee and which
                  includes approximately 3738 sq ft +/- said land having been
                  determined to be necessary for the health and welfare of the
                  inhabitants of Marblehead and to be used for municipal purposes
                  and that the sum of $305,000.00 be appropriated for the purpose
                  of the acquisition of said property along with all legal, recording
                  and engineering costs associated therewith; to meet said
                  appropriation authorize the Town Treasurer, with the approval of
                  the Board of Selectmen, to borrow said sum under M.G.L.
                  Chapter 44, or any other enabling authority, and further provided
                  that said appropriation shall be subject to and contingent upon an
                  affirmative vote of the Town to exempt the amounts required for




                                         39
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


             the payment of interest and principal on said borrowing from the
             limitations on taxes imposed by M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 21C
             (Proposition 2½).

Article 31   Pleasant Street Corridor Improvement Project
             Counted Vote
             In Favor 308       Against 47
             2/3 vote achieved
             Motion Passed
             Voted: That the sum of $1,640,000.00 be appropriated to fund the
             design, including professional services and construction of
             improvements to the Pleasant Street corridor from the intersection
             of Village, Vine and Pleasant Streets to Smith Street, including
             but not limited to traffic light upgrades, roadway reconfigurations
             and sidewalk improvements and to meet said appropriation
             authorize the Town Treasurer, with the approval of the Board of
             Selectmen, to borrow said sum under M.G.L. Chapter 44, or any
             other enabling authority, and further provided that said
             appropriation shall be subject to and contingent upon an
             affirmative vote of the Town to exempt the amounts required for
             the payment of interest and principal on said borrowing from the
             limitations on taxes imposed by M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 21C
             (Proposition 2½)

Article 32   Water Department Construction
             Voted: That the sum of $735,264.00 is appropriated from water
             retained earnings to be expended by the Water and Sewer
             Commission for the construction, reconstruction and extending of
             water mains, replacement of water meters, appurtenances,
             engineering, consultants, surveys including revenue studies, and
             other general Water Department purposes, and to authorize the
             Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by
             purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements
             necessary.

Article 33   Sewer Department Construction
             Voted: That the sum of $525,584.00 is appropriated from sewer
             retained earnings to be expended by the Water and Sewer
             Commission for the construction or reconstruction of sewers for
             sanitary purposes and for sewage disposal, pump stations, original




                                    40
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                pumping station equipment, metering equipment, safety
                equipment, replacement of said equipment, engineering,
                consultants and surveys including revenue studies, and other
                general Sewer Department purposes, and to authorize the Board
                of Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by purchase,
                eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements necessary.

Article 34      Storm Drainage Construction
                Voted: That $324,000.00 is appropriated from taxation for the
                construction and reconstruction of sewers for surface drainage
                purposes, including engineering services in connection therewith,
                to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to acquire by
                purchase, eminent domain or otherwise, any land or easement
                necessary; to be expended by the Water and Sewer Commission.

Article 35      Water and Sewer Commission Claims
                Voted: To authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the
                Board of Selectmen acting jointly to compromise any claims for
                damages or suits pending against the Town of Marblehead on
                account of acts which may have occurred during the construction
                of the water and sewer system.

At 10:48pm voted to adjourn the meeting to Tuesday May 4th at 7:45PM at the
Veteran’s Middle School Performing Arts Center.

With A quorum met the Moderator reconvened the 2010 Annual town meeting
at 7:53pm

Article 36      Capital Improvements - Abbot Public Library
                Unanimously Voted: That the sum of $292,394.00 be
                appropriated to fund renovations and extraordinary repairs to the
                Abbot Public Library and to meet said appropriation authorize the
                Town Treasurer, with the approval of the Board of Selectmen, to
                borrow said sum under M.G.L. Chapter 44, or any other enabling
                authority, and further provided that said appropriation shall be
                subject to and contingent upon an affirmative vote of the Town to
                exempt the amounts required for the payment of interest and
                principal on said borrowing from the limitations on taxes imposed
                by M.G.L. 59, Section 21C (Proposition 2½)




                                      41
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Article 37   Financial Assistance for Conservation
             Voted: To authorize the Conservation Commission and other
             proper officers of the Town to apply for financial assistance from
             public and private sources to be expended by the Conservation
             Commission for the purchase of vacant land and any other
             purpose authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General
             Laws as amended, or to reimburse the town for sums of money
             expended for such purposes, or both.


Article 38   Traffic Offenses / Driving While Distracted
             Voted: To amend the Town of Marblehead Bylaws by adding a
             new Article III in Chapter 264 Vehicles and Traffic, as follows:

             Article III Moving Violations

             §264-22 Failure to Maintain Control of a Motor Vehicle
             H.        Purpose: To maintain good order and provide for the
             public’s safety while driving, using, walking and/or interacting on
             the streets and ways located in Marblehead.

             I.       Authority: This provision is adopted pursuant to Article
             89, Section 6, of the Amendments to the Massachusetts
             Constitution, G.L. c. 40, § 21 and G.L. c. 90C.

             J.       Definition. “Operation of a Motor Vehicle While
             Distracted” means the operation of a motor vehicle by a person
             who, while operating the vehicle, is engaged in the activity of
             typing on or reading from a wireless communication device (also
             known as “texting” or “emailing” or receiving or sending or
             reading communications from and/or on said device) while
             driving, for purposes other than making a call on a cellular
             telephone. Further that said behavior is not necessary to the
             operation of the vehicle; and that actually impairs, or would
             reasonably be expected to impair, the ability of the person to
             safely operate the vehicle.

             K.      Violation: Failure To Maintain Control of a Motor
             Vehicle. A person who engages in the Operation of a Motor




                                    42
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


             Vehicle While Distracted shall be deemed in violation of this
             bylaw.

             L.       Exceptions: This bylaw shall not apply to public safety
             personnel including the Town of Marblehead Police Department
             and Fire Department, who are using computer and text generated
             information in the performance of their duties.

             M.      Penalty: Penalties for violations hereunder shall in
             accordance with G.L. c. 90C as follows:

             a.   First Offense:         $ 35.00
             b.   Second Offense:        $ 75.00
             c.   Third Offense:         $ 150.00

             N.       Enforcement: The Chief of Police and/or his/her
             employees or appointees shall be responsible for enforcement of
             this bylaw in accordance with G.L. c. 90C.

Article 39   Release Existing Easement
             Unanimously Voted: To authorize the Board of Selectmen, with
             the approval of town counsel as to form, to release, convey,
             transfer, exchange or otherwise dispose of all or any portion of
             the utility easement as described as an easement over 14 Wallace
             Road, shown as Old Parcel A on a plan entitled Plan for Sewer
             Easements Ocean Ave. – Bubier Rd. in Marblehead, MA, dated
             August 4, 1997, and recorded in Plan Book 390, Plan 60 to
             Dorothy Jarvis, owner of 14 Wallace Road, Marblehead,
             Massachusetts, by deed dated January 20, 1981, recorded with the
             Essex County Registry of Deeds at Book 6786, page 274.

Article 40   485 Lafayette Street / Western Non-Utility Section / Activity
             and Use Limitation
             Voted:To authorize the Board of Selectmen to negotiate and
             enter into and place an Activity and Use Limitation on the
             property known as the “Western Non-Utility Section” located
             adjacent to 485 Lafayette Street, the former Chadwick Lead Mill
             Site, more specifically identified as a portion of Map 31 Parcel
             234 on the City of Salem Assessor’s Map, as part of the
             remediation of hazardous material being undertaken by NL




                                    43
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


             Industries Inc. and as more particularly described in a plan
             entitled “Site Plan Showing Proposed Cleanup Areas” dated
             December 2009 by Woodward & Curran in the area shown as the
             “Western Non-Utility Section” which said plan is on file with the
             Town Clerk.

Article 41   485 Lafayette Street / Bike Path / Activity and Use Limitation
             Voted:To authorize the Board of Selectmen to negotiate and
             enter into and place an Activity and Use Limitation on the
             property known as the “Bike Path” located adjacent to 485
             Lafayette Street, the former Chadwick Lead Mill Site, more
             specifically identified as a portion of Map 55 Lot 2 on the Town
             of Marblehead Assessor’s Map as part of the remediation of
             hazardous material being undertaken by NL Industries Inc. and as
             more particularly described in a plan entitled “Site Plan Showing
             Proposed Cleanup Areas” dated December 2009 by Woodward
             & Curran in the area shown as the “Bike Path Section” on said
             plan which said plan is on file with the Town Clerk.

Article 42   Capital Improvements Piper Field
             Counted Vote
             In Favor 342 Opposed 40
             2/3 Vote Achieved
             Motion Passed
             Voted: That the sum of $1,500,000.00 be appropriated for the
             design, engineering, permitting, site preparation, removal of
             existing surface, and installation of an artificial turf field with
             associated equipment necessary for field maintenance at Piper
             Field located at Marblehead High School 2 Humphrey Street; said
             sum to be expended under the direction of the School Committee;
             and to meet said appropriation authorize the Town Treasurer, with
             the approval of the Board of Selectmen, to borrow said sum under
             M.G.L. Chapter 44, or any other enabling authority, and further
             provided that said appropriation shall be subject to and contingent
             upon an affirmative vote of the Town to exempt the amounts
             required for the payment of interest and principal on said
             borrowing from the limitations on taxes imposed by M.G.L.
             Chapter 59, Section 21C (Proposition 2½).




                                   44
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Article 43   North Shore Regional Vocational School District
             Voted: To approve the gross operating and maintenance budget
             of the North Shore Regional Vocational School District and
             appropriate the sum of $138,368.00 for the town’s assessment of
             the same to be expended by the School Committee.

Article 44   Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District
             Voted: That the Town become a member of the Essex North
             Shore Agricultural and Technical School District (the "District")
             in accordance with Chapter 463 of the Acts of 2004 (as
             amended); and that the proportioned share of $133,770,000.00 of
             the estimated construction costs of the Essex North Shore
             Agricultural and Technical High School, will be based on the
             Town's projected percentage of enrollment for the proposed Essex
             North Shore Agricultural and Technical High School, which
             school facility shall have an anticipated useful life as an
             educational facility for the instruction of school children for at
             least 50 years, said construction funds to be expended under the
             direction of the Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical
             School District in accordance with Chapter 463 of the Acts of
             2004 (as amended), and M.G.L. Chapter 71, and that the Town of
             Marblehead acknowledges that the Massachusetts School
             Building Authority's ("MSBA") grant program is a non-
             entitlement, discretionary program based on need, as determined
             by the MSBA, and any project costs the District incurs in excess
             of any grant approved by and received from the MSBA shall be
             the sole responsibility of the District; provided further that any
             grant that the District may receive from the MSBA for the Project
             shall be based on a total project budget of $125,000,000 and shall
             not exceed the lesser of (1) sixty-two percent (62.00%) of
             eligible, approved project costs, as determined by the MSBA, or
             (2) the total maximum grant amount as determined by the MSBA;
             and that the amount of borrowing authorized for the District shall be
             reduced by any grant amount set forth in the Project Funding Agreement
             that may be executed between the District and the MSBA; and further
             provided that the MSBA's grant is conditioned upon the election by
             cities and towns representing at least 75 percent of the October 1, 2004
             foundation enrollment of the North Shore Vocational Regional School
             District to become a member municipality of the District.




                                     45
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Article 45   Amend Dog By-law
             Voted: To amend Article III § 13-10 (C) of the Town Bylaw
             which currently reads:
             C. Licensing period. The licensing period shall be from April 1 to
             March 31 of each calendar year.
             TO:
             C. Licensing period. The licensing period shall be from January
             1st to December 31st of each calendar year.

Article 46   Glover Project
             Counted Vote
             In favor 350 Opposed 1
             2/3 vote achieved
             Motion passed
             Voted: That the Town of Marblehead appropriate the sum of
             $28,804,000.00 for the design, project management and
             construction of a new elementary school for 425 students at the
             Glover School site, located at 7-9 Maple Street, parcel number 40
             4 0, including the associated costs of relocating students during
             construction; which school facility shall have an anticipated
             useful life as an educational facility for the instruction of school
             children for at least 50 years, said sum to be expended under the
             direction of the Glover School Building Committee, and to meet
             said appropriation the Treasurer is authorized to borrow said sum
             under M.G.L. Chapter 44, Chapter 70B or any other enabling
             authority; that the Town of Marblehead acknowledges that the
             Massachusetts School Building Authority’s (“MSBA”) grant
             program is a non-entitlement, discretionary program based on
             need, as determined by the MSBA, and any project costs the
             Town of Marblehead incurs that are ineligible for reimbursement
             by the MSBA or in excess of any grant approved by and received
             from the MSBA shall be the sole responsibility of the Town of
             Marblehead; provided further that project costs ineligible for
             reimbursement by the MSBA shall include, without limitation, all
             costs associated with the relocation of students during
             construction; provided further that any grant that the Town of
             Marblehead may receive from the MSBA for the Project shall not
             exceed the lesser of (1) forty percent ( 40%) of eligible, approved
             project costs, as determined by the MSBA, or (2) the total
             maximum grant amount determined by the MSBA; provided that




                                    46
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                any appropriation hereunder shall be subject to and contingent
                upon an affirmative vote of the Town to exempt the amounts
                required for the payment of interest and principal on said
                borrowing from the limitations on taxes imposed by M.G.L.
                Chapter 59, Section 21C (Proposition 2½); and that the amount of
                borrowing authorized pursuant to this vote shall be reduced by
                any grant amount set forth in the Project Funding Agreement that
                may be executed between the Town of Marblehead and the
                MSBA.

Article 47      Schools Construction and/or Renovation Program
                Unanimously Voted: That the sum of $450,000.00 be
                appropriated for the purpose of technology upgrades and
                classroom furniture at the Village School; that to meet this
                appropriation, the Treasurer with the approval of the Board of
                Selectmen is authorized to borrow $450,000 under M.G.L.
                Chapter 44, or any other enabling authority; that the amount
                appropriated and the borrowing authorized hereunder shall be
                transferred from the remaining unused/prior appropriation and
                borrowing authority under Article 39 of the May 2008 Annual
                Town Meeting for the Village School project and accordingly, the
                amount available for the purposes of such article is hereby
                reduced by $450,000 and the vote thereunder so amended;
                provided, however, that this vote shall be subject to and
                contingent upon an affirmative vote of the Town to exempt the
                amounts required for the payment of interest and principal on said
                borrowing from the limitations on taxes imposed by M.G.L.
                Chapter 59, Section 21C.

Article 48      School Department Computer, Support Equipment, and
                Technology Infrastructure.
                Voted: That this article be Indefinitely Postponed

Article 49      Available Funds appropriate to Reduce the Tax Rate
                Voted: That the sum of $4,596,672.00 be appropriated for the use
                of the Assessors in making the Tax Rate.

             From Free Cash                                 $     4,266,672.00
             From Electric Surplus                                  330,000.00
                                                            $     4,596,672.00




                                      47
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 1 Moderator
             Voted: That the sum of $100.00 be and hereby is appropriated for
             the Moderator as follows:
             Item    1         Officials Expense           $100.00

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 2 3 4 5 6 Selectmen
             Voted: That the sum of $440,865.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Selectmen as follows:

             Item 2   Officials Expense                 $ 5,500.00
             Item 3   Salaries & Wages                   334,202.00
             Item 4   Expense                             92,163.00
             Item 5   Zoning Board Legal Services          7,000.00
             Item 6   Out of State Travel                  2,000.00
                                                        $440,865.00
Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 7 8 9 Finance Committee
             Voted: That the sum of$13,907.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for the Finance Committee as follows:

             Item 7   Salaries & Wages                  $ 8,147.00
             Item 8            Expense                    5,585.00
             Item 9            Local Travel                 175.00
                                                        $13,907.00

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 10 Reserve Fund
             Voted: That the sum of $144,000.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Reserve Fund.

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 12 13       Finance Department
             Voted: That the sum of $881,106.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Finance Department as follows:
             Item 12           Salaries & Wages         $ 634,901.00
             Item 13           Expense                    246,205.00




                                   48
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 17 18 19 20          Assessor
             Voted: That the sum of $208,875.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Assessor as follows:

             Item 17          Officials Expense         $     300.00
             Item 18          Salaries & Wages           174,390.00
             Item 19          Expense                     33,785.00
             Item 20          Local Travel                   400.00
                                                        $208, 875.00

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 29 30      Town Counsel
             Voted: That the sum of $64,932.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for the Town Counsel as follows:

             Item 29          Salaries & Wages          $ 2,000.00
             Item 30          Expense                     62,932.00
                                                        $ 64,932.00
Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 35           Parking Clerk
             Voted: That the sum of $10,484.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for the Parking Clerk Department as follows:

             Item 35                   Expense          $ 10,484.00

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 39 40       Town Clerk
             Voted: That the sum of $160,884.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Town Clerk as follows:

             Item 39          Salaries & Wages          $151,847.00
             Item 40          Expense                      9,037.00
                                                        $160,884.00

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 43 44        Election and Registration
             Voted: That the sum of $44,615.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for the Election and Registration as follows:




                                  49
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


             Item 43          Salaries & Wages          $ 22,750.00
             Item 44          Expense                     21,865.00
                                                        $ 44,615.00
Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 50           Planning Board
             Voted: That the sum of $1,675.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for the Planning Board as follows:

             Item 50          Expense                   $1,675.00

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 55 56 57             Public Buildings
             Voted: That the sum of $186,796.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Public Buildings as follows:

             Item 55          Salaries & Wages          $ 85.296.00
             Item 56          Expense                    101,100.00
             Item 57          Local Travel                   400.00
                                                        $186,796.00
Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 59          Town Report
             Voted: That the sum of $4,300.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for the Town Report to be expended by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 60          Town Audit
             Voted: That the sum of $40,000.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for the Town Audit to be expended by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 62 63 64 Police Department
             Voted: That the sum of $3,226,922.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Police Department as follows:

             Item 62 Salaries & Wages               $3,024,523.00
             Item 63 Expense                           192,399.00
             Item 64 Indemnification of Officers        10,000.00
                                                   $3,226,922.00




                                  50
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 68 69                Fire Department
             Voted: That the sum of $2,917,842.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Fire Department as follows:

             Item 68          Salaries & Wages      $ 2,778,544.00
             Item 69          Expense                   139,298.00
                                                    $2,917,842.00
Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 73 74 75             Building Inspection
             Voted: That the sum of $442,281.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for Building Inspection as follows:

             Item 73          Salaries & Wages          $429,526.00
             Item 74          Expense                      9,755.00
             Item 75          Local Travel                 3,000.00
                                                        $442,281.00
Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 80          Sealer of Weights and Measures
             Voted: That the sum of $150.00 be and hereby is appropriated for
             the Sealer of Weights and Measures as follows:

             Item 80          Expense                       $150.00

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 86           Animal Inspector
             Voted: That the sum of $2,400.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for the Animal Inspector as follows:

             Item 86          Salaries                    $2,400.00

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 101                  School Department
             Voted: That the sum of $28,447,127.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the School Department.
Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 105 106 107         Engineer
             Voted: That the sum of $119,116.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Engineer as follows:




                                   51
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


             Item 105          Salaries & Wages           $108,221.00
             Item 106          Expense                        10,395.00
             Item 107          Local Travel                      500.00
                                                          $119,116.00
             To meet this appropriation, $3,000.00 is to be transferred from
             Wetland Filing Fees and $116,116.00 to be taken from Taxation.

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 112 113             Highway
             Voted: That the sum of $808,215.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Highway as follows:

             Item 112          Salaries & Wages           $721,131.00
             Item 113          Expense                      87,084.00
                                                          $808,215.00
Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 116 Rebuild, Maintain or Hot Top Streets
             Voted: That the sum of $33,750.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             to rebuild or hot top certain streets and said work to be done
             under the direction of the Director of Public Works and said sum
             of money to be expended by the Director of Public Works.

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 117          Snow Removal
             Voted: That the sum of $100,000.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the use of the Director of Public Works to cover
             all expenses incidental to snow removal.

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 118          Street Lighting
             Voted: That the sum of $128,820.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Street Lighting in accordance with Section
             58, Chapter 164 of the Massachusetts General Laws.

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 126 127 128         Waste Collection
             Voted: That the sum of $1,922,056.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Waste Collection as follows:

             Item 126          Salaries & Wages            $ 287,655.00




                                   52
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


             Item 127          Expense                      1,632,889.00
             Item 128          Local Travel                     1,512.00
                                                          $ 1,922,056.00
Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 132 133              Drains
             Voted: That the sum of $103,877.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Drains as follows:
             Item 132          Salaries & Wages        $ 98,727.00
             Item 133          Expense                     5,150.00
                                                       $103,877.00
Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 141 142 143          Cemetery
             Voted: That the sum of $322,110.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Cemetery as follows:

             Item 141          Officials Expense            $ 300.00
             Item 142          Salaries & Wages             299,964.00
             Item 143          Expenses                      21,846.00
                                                           $322,110.00
             To meet this appropriation, $272,110.00 is to be raised by
             taxation, and $50,000.00 to be transferred from Cemetery
             Perpetual Care.

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 148 149              Tree
             Voted: That the sum of $279,188.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Tree Department as follows:
             Item 148          Salaries & Wages           $227,610.00
             Item 149          Expense                      51,578.00
                                                          $279,188.00




                                   53
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 153 154 155 157 158          Health Department
             Voted: That the sum of $150,594.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Health Department as follows:

             Item 153         Officials Expense         $    400.00
             Item 154         Salaries & Wages           131,039.00
             Item 155         Expense                     13,055.00
             Item 157         Local Travel                 2,100.00
             Item 158         HAWC                         4,000.00
                                                        $150,594.00

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 162                  Mental Health
             Voted: That the sum of $60,000.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for the Mental Health Department as follows:

             Item 162         Contractual Services      $ 60,000.00

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 164 165             Council on Aging
             Voted: That the sum of $187,288.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Council on Aging as follows:

             Item 164         Salaries & Wages          $183,829.00
             Item 165         Expense                      3,459.00

                                                 $187,288.00
Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 175 176 177 178               Veterans Benefits
             Voted: That the sum of $77,594.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for the Veterans Benefits as follows:

             Item 175         Salaries & Wages          $ 56,251.00
             Item 176         Expense                      1,243.00
             Item 177         Local Travel                 1,100.00
             Item 178         Benefits                    19,000.00
                                                        $ 77,594.00




                                  54
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 185 186 187         Library
             Voted: That the sum of $968,291.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Abbot Public Library as follows:

             Item 185         Salaries & Wages           $725,323.00
             Item 186         Expense                     242,868.00
             Item 187         Local Travel                    100.00
                                                         $968,291.00
Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 190 191 192          Park Department
             Voted: That the sum of $763,905.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Park and Recreation as follows:

             Item 190         Salaries & Wages           $546,222.00
             Item 191         Expense                     171,590.00
             Item 192         Facility Expense             46,093.00
                                                         $763,905.00
Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 210                 Memorial & Veterans Day
             Voted: That the sum of $1,950.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for Memorial and Veterans Day, said sum of money to be
             expended by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 214 215              Maturing Bonds and Interest
             Voted: That the sum of $4,370,950.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Maturing Bonds and Interest as follows:

             Item 214         Maturing Debt           $ 2,925.000.00
             Item 215         Interest                  1,445,950.00
                                                      $4,370,950.00
             To meet this appropriation $285,259.00 is to be transferred from
             bond premium reserved for appropriation and $4,085,69.00 is to
             be raised by taxation.

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 217                   Contributory Retirement
             Voted: That the sum of $1,902,903.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Contributory Retirement Fund.




                                   55
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010



Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 218                  Medicare
             Voted: That the sum of $450,000.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for Medicare, to be expended by the Finance
             Director.

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 219                   Workmen’s Compensation
             Voted: That the sum of $270,000.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated to be added to the Workmen’s Compensation Trust
             Fund (and allowed to accumulate from year to year) to be
             expended by the Finance Director to pay expenses of Workmen’s
             Compensation.

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 221                  Group Insurance
             Voted: That the sum of $10,246,964.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for Group Insurance to be expended by the Finance
             Director.

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 222                   Other Insurance
             Voted: That the sum of $475,888.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for Other Insurance, to be expended by the Board of
             Selectmen.

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 223          Salary Reserve
             Voted: That the sum of $110,770.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for Salary Reserve, to be expended by the Board of
             Selectmen.

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 224          Non-Contributory Retirement
             Voted: That the sum of $140,010.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for Non-Contributory Retirement, to be expended by
             the Finance Director/Town Accountant.




                                   56
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 225          Energy Reserve
             Voted: That the sum of $533,544.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for Energy Reserve, to be expended by the Board of
             Selectmen.

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 227 228 230         Sewer Department
             Voted: That the sum of $3,305,068.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Sewer Department as follows:

             Item 227          Salaries & Wages
             $587,149.00
             Item 228          Expense                               552,587.00
             Item 230          South Essex Sewer District          2,165,332.00
                                                                 $ 3,305,068.00
             To meet this appropriation, $3,305,068.00 is to be transferred
             from sewer receipts.

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 231 232 235          Water Department
             Voted: That the sum of $2,907,272.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Water Department as follows:

             Item 231          Salaries & Wages        $ 580,107.00
             Item 232          Expense                     521,557.00
             Item 235          Metropolitan Water        1,805,608.00
                                                       $2,907,272.00
             To meet this appropriation, $2,907,272.00 is to be transferred
             from water receipts.

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 236           Municipal Light Department
             Voted: That the income from sales of electricity to private
             consumers, from electricity supplied to municipal buildings and
             electricity supplied for municipal power during the current fiscal
             year be appropriated for the Municipal Light Plant, the whole to
             be expended by the manager of the Municipal Lighting Plant,
             under the direction and control of the Municipal Light Board for
             the expense of the plant for said fiscal year as defined in Section




                                    57
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


             57 of Chapter 164 of the General Laws; and said Municipal Light
             Board is hereby further authorized to pay from income of the
             plant for the fiscal year such amounts as may be expended for
             extensions, reconstruction enlargements, or additions and sell or
             trade apparatus that has worn out its usefulness and is unfit for
             requirements during the fiscal year.

Article 50   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 238 239 241         Harbor Department
             Voted: That the sum of $682,882.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Harbor Department as follows:

             Item 238          Salaries & Wages           $307,222.00
             Item 239          Expense                     300,860.00
             Item 241          Outlays                       74,800.00
                                                          $682,882.00
             To meet this appropriation, $591,846.00 is to be transferred from
             harbor receipts and 91,036.00 will be from retained earnings

Article 51   Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
             Voted: That this article be indefinitely postponed.

Voted to Adjourn at 9:54PM




                                   58
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                          Marblehead Massachusetts
                           Annual Town Election
                           Monday May 10th, 2010

The Number of Votes Cast were as follows:

Precinct 1       538                  24.4% of 2,199 Registered Voters
Precinct 2       460                  23.9% of 1,922 Registered Voters
Precinct 3       416                  22.3% of 1,861 Registered Voters
Precinct 4       595                  27.5% of 2,159 Registered Voters
Precinct 5       500                  23.6% of 2,118 Registered Voters
Precinct 6       553                  25.7% of 2,147 Registered Voters
Precinct 7       497                  23.4% of 2,119 Registered Voters
Total            3559                 24.5% of 14,525 Registered Voters


                              Selectmen 1 Year Term
Vote for Five
Precinct                1       2        3         4      5      6       7      Total
Blanks                  701     588      572       838    738    762     670    4869
Jackie Belf-Becker      365     299      256       367    322    364     297    2270
Judith R. Jacobi        402     311      282       411    343    390     336    2475
James E. Nye            356     312      279       427    342    374     353    2443
William L. Woodfin,     333     278      233       317    274    303     288    2026
II
Christopher        T.   148     121      114       145    134    164     146    972
Hartley
Rose Ann Wheeler        134     137      131       134    115    124     120    895
McCarthy
T. Michael Rockett      249     252      213       332    229    282     272    1829
Write-Ins               2       2        0         4      3      2       3      16
Total                   2690    2300     2080      2975   2500   2765    2485   17795

                              Moderator 1 Year Term
Vote for One
   Precinct       1      2      3       4     5      6     7     Total
Blanks           124    107    96      151   155    161   136     930
Gary A. Spiess   409    352    319     443   344    386   360    2613
Write-Ins         5      1      1       1     1      6     1      16
    Total        538    460    416     595   500    553   497    3559




                                          59
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                            Town Clerk 3 Year Term
Vote for One
    Precinct          1     2     3     4     5     6     7    Total
Blanks               114   103   84    144   143   140   112    840
Robin A. Michaud     423   357   332   449   356   413   383   2713
Write-Ins             1     0     0     2     1     0     2      6
      Total          538   460   416   595   500   553   497   3559

                             Assessors 3 Year Term
Vote for One
    Precinct          1     2     3     4     5     6     7    Total
Blanks               162   141   128   184   191   178   169   1153
Ann N. McCarthy      375   319   288   410   308   375   328   2403
Write-ins             1     0     0     1     1     0     0     3
      Total          538   460   416   595   500   553   497   3559


                      Cemetery Commission 3 Year Term
Vote for One
    Precinct          1     2     3     4     5     6     7    Total
Blanks               162   137   122   193   182   185   164   1145
Richard F. Coletti   376   323   294   400   317   368   333   2411
Write-ins             0     0     0     2     1     0     0     3
      Total          538   460   416   595   500   553   497   3559


              Cemetery Commission 2 Year Unexpired Term
Vote for One
     Precinct     1     2   3      4    5    6     7   Total
Blanks           159 138 123 186 186 185 161 1138
David M. Cashman 379 322 293 409 314 368 335 2420
Write-ins         0     0   0      0    0    0     1    1
       Total     538 460 416 595 500 553 497 3559




                                       60
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                           Board of Health 3 Year Term
Vote for One
    Precinct          1      2     3     4     5     6     7    Total
Blanks               168    126   107   164   155   167   166   1053
Helaine R. Hazlett   370    334   307   430   344   385   331   2501
Write-ins             0      0     2     1     1     1     0     5
      Total          538    460   416   595   500   553   497   3559



                Abbot Public Library Trustees 3 Year Term
Vote for Two
       Precinct         1     2     3     4       5     6           7      Total
Blanks                 359 329 241 424           381   397         353     2484
Maura Phelan Murnane 347 288 282 375             311   354         313     2270
Phil Sweeney           369 303 309 391           306   355         328     2361
Write-ins               1     0     0     0       2     0           0       3
         Total        1076 920 832 1190 1000 1106                  994     7118


                 Municipal Light Commissioner 3 Year Term
Vote for Two
     Precinct        1      2     3   4       5      6    7             Total
Blanks              374 336 269 439         419    420 370              2627
Calvin T. Crawford 343 274 278 368          289    341 291              2184
Walter E. Homan     358 310 285 383         292    345 333              2306
Write-Ins            1      0     0   0       0      0    0              1
       Total       1076 920 832 1190 1000 1106 994                      7118



                           Planning Board 3 Year Term
Vote for One
    Precinct          1      2     3     4     5     6     7    Total
Blanks               176    140   141   217   201   199   171   1245
Edward O. Nilsson    361    319   274   377   299   354   326   2310
Write-Ins             1      1     1     1     0     0     0     4
      Total          538    460   416   595   500   553   497   3559




                                        61
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                        Housing Authority – 5 Year Term
Vote for One
   Precinct        1      2     3     4     5     6     7    Total
Blanks            183    158   144   217   201   214   184   1301
Robert T. Bryne   354    302   272   376   299   339   313   2255
Write-ins          1      0     0     2     0     0     0     3
     Total        538    460   416   595   500   553   497   3559



                Recreation and Park Commission 1 Year Term
Vote for Five
      Precinct          1      2     3     4      5     6             7     Total
Blanks                1020 902      784 1114 1057 1098               990    6965
Linda A. Rice          344    276   265  372     302   340           321    2220
Collins
Sam K. Ganglani        324    270   236  352     295   330           276    2083
Derek Y. Norcross      345    293   280  399     304   365           315    2301
Charles E. Nyren       298    259   240  360     259   307           273    1996
Charles Edward         354    300   275  376     282   325           310    2222
Osborne, Jr.
Write-Ins               5      0     0     2      1     0             0       8
Total                 2690 2300 2080 2975 2500 2765                  2485   17795



                        School Committee 3 Year Term
Vote for One
        Precinct            1    2     3     4      5         6        7    Total
Blanks                     250 194 185 239         182       222      220   1492
Jonathan S. Lederman       258 226 195 324         282       283      260   1828
Kathleen E. Leonardson     364 296 263 308         268       322      324   2145
Jennifer Anne Schaeffner 203 197 187 319           267       274      185   1632
Robert T. Jackson           0     4    2     0      1         3        4     14
Write-Ins                   1     3    0     0      0         2        1      7
Total                     1076 920 832 1190 1000             1106     994   7118




                                      62
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                    Water & Sewer Commission 3 Year Term
Vote for Two
     Precinct         1      2     3     4      5      6      7    Total
Blanks               371    294   263   421    415    430    347   2541
Wilbur E. Bassett    366    314   292   392    295    338    330   2327
F. Carlton Siegel    339    312   276   375    288    338    317   2245
Write-Ins             0      0     1     2      2      0      0     5
Total                1076   920   832   1190   1000   1106   994   7118



              Water & Sewer Commission 2 Year Unexpired Term
Vote for One
     Precinct        1    2    3    4     5    6     7   Total
Blanks              121 88    84 189 167 160 103 912
John F. Belanger    151 155 119 108 131 155 166 985
R. Thomas           266 217 213 298 201 238 228 1661
Hamond
Write-Ins            0    0    0    0     1    0     0     1
Total               538 460 416 595 500 553 497 3559




                                        63
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                 COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
                      WILLIAM FRANCIS GALVIN
                 SECRETARY OF THE COMMONWEALTH

         Essex SS.

To either of the Constables of the Town of Marblehead
         GREETING:
In the name of the Commonwealth, you are hereby required to notify and warn the
inhabitants of said Town who are qualified to vote in the Special State Election to
vote at

Precinct 1        Old Town House                                 1 Market Square
Precinct 2        Star of the Sea Community Center               80 Atlantic Ave.
Precinct 3        Star of the Sea Community Center               80 Atlantic Ave.
Precinct 4        Star of the Sea Community Center               80 Atlantic Ave.
Precinct 5        Marblehead Community Center                    10 Humphrey St.
Precinct 6        Marblehead Community Center                    10 Humphrey St.
Precinct 7        Marblehead Community Center                    10 Humphrey St.

on TUESDAY, THE NINETEENTH DAY OF JANUARY, 2010, from 7:00
A.M. to 8:00 P.M. for the following purpose:

    To cast their votes in the Special State Election for the candidates for the
    following office:
    SENATOR IN CONGRESS. . . . . FOR THE COMMONWEALTH

         Hereof fail not and make return of this warrant with your doings thereon at
the time and place of said voting.

         Given under our hands this 5th day of January, 2010.

JACKIE BELF-BECKER
JUDITH R. JACOBI
JAMES E. NYE
HARRY C. CHRISTENSEN, JR.
WILLIAM L. WOODFIN, II
Selectmen of Marblehead

A True Copy Attest: Cabot W. Dodge, Constable




                                         64
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                    Commonwealth of Massachusetts
                        Special State Election
                         Senator in Congress
                      Tuesday, January 19, 2010

The Number of Votes Cast were as follows:
Precinct 1      1,503            68.3% of 2,200 Registered Voters
Precinct 2      1,271            66.1% of 1,921 Registered Voters
Precinct 3      1,238            66.6% of 1,857 Registered Voters
Precinct 4      1,559            72.2% of 2,159 Registered Voters
Precinct 5      1,429            67.6% of 2,113 Registered Voters
Precinct 6      1,552            72.2% of 2,147 Registered Voters
Precinct 7      1,463            69.0% of 2,119 Registered Voters
Total           10,015           68.9% of 14,516 Registered Voters

Canvas Completed at 8:35 pm

SENATOR IN CONGRESS
Precinct          1           2      3       4        5       6      7      Total
Blanks            0           0      0       0        0       0      0      0
Scott P. Brown    759         612    604     897      727     833    858    5290
Martha Coakley    738         644    624     652      696     707    598    4659
Joseph L. Kennedy 5           15     10      9        6       12     7      64
Write-Ins         1           0      0       1        0       0      0      2
TOTALS            1503        1271   1238    1559     1429    1552   1463   10015




                                     65
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
County of Essex, ss
to Any Constable in the Town of Marblehead
Greeting:

         You are hereby required and directed in the name of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts to notify and warn the Inhabitants of the Town of Marblehead
aforesaid who are qualified to vote in elections and in Town affairs to meet at the
several designated polling places in their respective precincts in said Marblehead to
wit:

In Precinct 1 - Polling Place –
OLD TOWN HOUSE
In Precinct 2 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 3 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 4 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 5 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 6 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 7 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER

On Tuesday, the 15th day of June next A.D. 2010 (it being the third Tuesday in
June) at 7 o’clock in the forenoon then and there to bring into the precinct officers
of their respective precincts their votes on one ballot for the following Questions to
wit:

Question 1:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond
issued for the purpose of funding the permitting, public bidding and construction for
the landfill closure and new transfer station, including design services, construction
of a cap for the areas of the old landfill, deconstruction of the old transfer station,
constructing storm water controls, and constructing a new transfer station, new
Recycling Drop-Off area, new Swap Shed, and new Yard Waste Processing Area,




                                         66
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


acquisition of interests in real property, and including engineering, testing, legal and
related costs and fees?

YES_________ NO_________


Question 2:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to assess an additional $706,961.00 in
real estate and personal property taxes for the fiscal year beginning July first, 2010,
for the purposes of Article 21 of the 2010 Annual Town Meeting for the purpose of
continued water quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk assessment,
engineering and any other services related to the old landfill?

YES_________ NO_________


Question 3:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond
issued for the purpose of funding the purchase, acquisition or taking by eminent
domain the property and building(s) located at 57 Stony Brook Road, and more
particularly described in a deed found at Book 22473 Page 485 recorded at the
Essex South Registry of Deeds containing 18,430 square feet +/- for the purpose of
clean up related to the historic operations of the former landfill and for settlement of
all claims, if any, as against the Town by the owners thereof?

YES_________ NO_________


Question 4:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to assess an additional $100,000.00 in
real estate and personal property taxes for the fiscal year beginning July first, 2010,
to fund Article 29 of the 2010 Annual Town Meeting for the purpose of the design,
engineering, repair and reconstruction of sidewalks throughout the town?

YES_________ NO_________




                                          67
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Question 5:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond
issued for the purpose of funding the purchase, acquisition or taking by eminent
domain of the parcel of land located at 195 Pleasant Street, Assessor Map 109 Lots
8 and 9 owned by Cyr Oil Corporation/Greg J. Bruett Trustee and which includes
approximately 3738 sq ft +/-, said land having been determined to be necessary for
the health and welfare of the inhabitants of Marblehead, to be used for municipal
purposes?

YES_________ NO_________


Question 6:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond
issued to the design, including professional services and construction of
improvements to the Pleasant Street corridor from the intersection of Village, Vine
and Pleasant Streets to Smith Street, including but not limited to traffic light
upgrades, roadway reconfigurations and sidewalk improvements?

YES_________ NO_________


Question 7:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond
issued to fund the renovations and extraordinary repairs to the Abbot Public
Library?

YES_________ NO_________


Question 8:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond




                                        68
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


issued for the purpose of funding the design, engineering, permitting, site
preparation, removal of existing surface, and installation of an artificial turf field
with associated equipment necessary for field maintenance at Piper Field located at
Marblehead High School 2 Humphrey Street?

YES_________ NO_________


Question 9:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond
issued for the purpose of funding the design, project management and construction
of a new elementary school for 425 students at the Glover School site, located at 7-9
Maple Street, parcel number 40 4 0, including the associated costs of relocating
students during construction; which school facility shall have an anticipated useful
life as an educational facility for the instruction of school children for at least 50
years?

YES_________ NO_________


Question 10:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond
issued for the purpose of funding technology upgrades and classroom furniture at
the Village School?

YES_________ NO_________


For these purposes the polls will be open at each and all of said precincts at 7
o’clock in the forenoon and will be closed at 8 o’clock in the afternoon at each and
all of said precincts and you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested
copies thereof at Abbot Hall and ten (10) other conspicuous places in Town as
required by the By-laws not later than thirty (30) days after being closed.

Hereof fail not and make due return of this Warrant or a certified copy thereof with
our doings thereon, to each of the several precinct wardens at the time and place of




                                         69
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


meetings aforesaid and to the Town Clerk as soon as may be before the said
meetings.

        Given under our hands at Marblehead aforesaid this 7th day of May 2010.

JACKIE BELF-BECKER
HARRY C. CHRISTENSEN, JR.
JUDITH R. JACOBI
JAMES E. NYE
WILLIAM L. WOODFIN, II
Selectmen of the Town of Marblehead



A True Copy
Attest: Cabot W. Dodge, Constable




                                      70
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                       Commonwealth of Massachusetts
                          Special Town Election
                          Tuesday, June 15, 2010

The Number of Votes Cast were as follows:
Precinct 1        804                36.4% of 2,208 Registered Voters
Precinct 2        679                35.3% of 1,922 Registered Voters
Precinct 3        688                36.8% of 1,868 Registered Voters
Precinct 4        923                42.8% of 2,156 Registered Voters
Precinct 5        896                42.4% of 2,113 Registered Voters
Precinct 6        979                45.4% of 2,154 Registered Voters
Precinct 7        911                42.9% of 2,123 Registered Voters
Total             5,880              40.4% of 14,544 Registered Voters

Canvas Completed at 8:50 pm

                                      Question 1:
Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond
issued for the purpose of funding the permitting, public bidding and construction for
the landfill closure and new transfer station, including design services, construction
of a cap for the areas of the old landfill, deconstruction of the old transfer station,
constructing storm water controls, and constructing a new transfer station, new
Recycling Drop-Off area, new Swap Shed, and new Yard Waste Processing Area,
acquisition of interests in real property, and including engineering, testing, legal and
related costs and fees?


Precinct        1         2       3         4        5        6         7        Total
Blanks          5         7       5         8        11       10        3        49
Yes             247       206     237       330      351      347       238      1956
No              552       466     446       585      534      622       670      3875
Total           804       679     688       923      896      979       911      5880



                                     Question 2:
Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to assess an additional $706,961.00 in
real estate and personal property taxes for the fiscal year beginning July first, 2010,
for the purposes of Article 21 of the 2010 Annual Town Meeting for the purpose of




                                          71
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


continued water quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk assessment,
engineering and any other services related to the old landfill?


Precinct        1        2         3        4        5        6         7        Total
Blanks          6        12        10       14       23       13        6        84
Yes             323      256       265      390      409      440       341      2424
No              475      411       413      519      464      526       564      3372
Total           804      679       688      923      896      979       911      5880




                                      Question 3:
Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond
issued for the purpose of funding the purchase, acquisition or taking by eminent
domain the property and building(s) located at 57 Stony Brook Road, and more
particularly described in a deed found at Book 22473 Page 485 recorded at the
Essex South Registry of Deeds containing 18,430 square feet +/- for the purpose of
clean up related to the historic operations of the former landfill and for settlement of
all claims, if any, as against the Town by the owners thereof?



Precinct        1        2         3        4        5        6         7        Total
Blanks          16       18        14       16       24       16        7        111
Yes             323      258       244      423      378      415       345      2386
No              465      403       430      484      494      548       559      3383
Total           804      679       688      923      896      979       911      5880




                                     Question 4:
Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to assess an additional $100,000.00 in
real estate and personal property taxes for the fiscal year beginning July first, 2010,
to fund Article 29 of the 2010 Annual Town Meeting for the purpose of the design,
engineering, repair and reconstruction of sidewalks thoughout the town?




                                          72
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Precinct       1        2        3       4        5        6        7       Total
Blanks         9        8        7       11       10       7        5       57
Yes            176      188      170     266      320      300      219     1639
No             619      483      511     646      566      672      687     4184
Total          804      679      688     923      896      979      911     5880



                                    Question 5:
Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond
issued for the purpose of funding the purchase, acquisition or taking by eminent
domain of the parcel of land located at 195 Pleasant Street, Assessor Map 109 Lots
8 and 9 owned by Cyr Oil Corporation/Greg J. Bruett Trustee and which includes
approximately 3738 sq ft +/-, said land having been determined to be necessary for
the health and welfare of the inhabitants of Marblehead, to be used for municipal
purposes?

Precinct       1        2        3       4        5        6        7       Total
Blanks         16       13       11      23       25       21       6       115
Yes            242      212      231     298      323      329      234     1869
No             546      454      446     602      548      629      671     3896
Total          804      679      688     923      896      979      911     5880

                                   Question 6:
Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond
issued to the design, including professional services and construction of
improvements to the Pleasant Street corridor from the intersection of Village, Vine
and Pleasant Streets to Smith Street, including but not limited to traffic light
upgrades, roadway reconfigurations and sidewalk improvements?



Precinct       1        2        3       4        5        6        7       Total
Blanks         13       11       13      9        21       9        7       83
Yes            232      207      247     307      330      331      213     1867
No             559      461      428     607      545      639      691     3930
Total          804      679      688     923      896      979      911     5880




                                        73
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010



                                   Question 7:
Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond
issued to fund the renovations and extraordinary repairs to the Abbot Public
Library?



Precinct        1        2        3        4        5        6        7        Total
Blanks          9        11       14       9        19       8        8        78
Yes             261      219      242      339      368      396      272      2097
No              534      449      432      575      509      575      631      3705
Total           804      679      688      923      896      979      911      5880



                                   Question 8:
Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond
issued for the purpose of funding the design, engineering, permitting, site
preparation, removal of existing surface, and installation of an artificial turf field
with associated equipment necessary for field maintenance at Piper Field located at
Marblehead High School 2 Humphrey Street?



Precinct        1        2        3        4        5        6        7        Total
Blanks          7        9        9        5        15       9        6        60
Yes             193      177      175      331      320      303      224      1723
No              604      493      504      587      561      667      681      4097
Total           804      679      688      923      896      979      911      5880



                                    Question 9:
Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond
issued for the purpose of funding the design, project management and construction
of a new elementary school for 425 students at the Glover School site, located at 7-9
Maple Street, parcel number 40 4 0, including the associated costs of relocating
students during construction; which school facility shall have an anticipated useful




                                         74
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


life as an educational facility for the instruction of school children for at least 50
years?



Precinct        1        2        3        4        5        6        7        Total
Blanks          8        12       12       5        3        2        3        45
Yes             330      264      292      466      573      609      348      2882
No              466      403      384      452      320      368      560      2953
Total           804      679      688      923      896      979      911      5880



                                  Question 10:
Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond
issued for the purpose of funding technology upgrades and classroom furniture at
the Village School?



Precinct        1        2        3        4        5        6        7        Total
Blanks          15       12       17       5        12       3        9        73
Yes             262      242      248      405      451      457      310      2375
No              527      425      423      513      433      519      592      3432
Total           804      679      688      923      896      979      911      5880




                                         75
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


               COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
                    WILLIAM FRANCIS GALVIN
               SECRETARY OF THE COMMONWEALTH

        Essex, SS.
To the Constables of the City/Town of Marblehead

         GREETING:
In the name of the Commonwealth, you are hereby required to notify and warn the
inhabitants of said city or town who are qualified to vote in Primaries to vote at

Precinct 1       Marblehead Community Center
                 10 Humphrey St.
Precinct 2       Star of the Sea Community Center
                 80 Atlantic Ave.
Precinct 3       Star of the Sea Community Center
                 80 Atlantic Ave.
Precinct 4       Star of the Sea Community Center
                 80 Atlantic Ave.
Precinct 5       Marblehead Community Center
                 10 Humphrey St.
Precinct 6       Marblehead Community Center
                 10 Humphrey St.
Precinct 7       Marblehead Community Center
                 10 Humphrey St.


on TUESDAY, THE FOURTEENTH DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 2010, from 7:00
A.M. to 8:00 P.M. for the following purpose:

        To cast their votes in the State Primaries for the candidates of political
        parties for the following offices:

GOVERNOR/LT. GOVERNOR                         FOR THIS COMMONWEALTH
ATTORNEY GENERAL                              FOR THIS COMMONWEALTH
SECRETARY OF STATE                            FOR THIS COMMONWEALTH
TREASURER                                     FOR THIS COMMONWEALTH
AUDITOR                                       FOR THIS COMMONWEALTH
REPRESENTATIVE IN CONGRESS                    SIXTH DISTRICT
COUNCILLOR                                    FIFTH DISTRICT




                                         76
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


SENATOR IN GENERAL COURT                             THIRD ESSEX &
                                                     MIDDLESEX DISTRICT
REPRESENTATIVE IN GENERAL COURT.                     EIGHTH DISTRICT
DISTRICT ATTORNEY                                    EASTERN DISTRICT
SHERIFF                                              ESSEX COUNTY

         Hereof fail not and make return of this warrant with your doings thereon at
the time and place of said voting.


        Given under our hands this 28TH day of July, 2010.


JAMES E. NYE
JACKIE BELF-BECKER
T. MICHAEL ROCKETT
Selectmen of the Town of Marblehead



A True Copy
Attest: Cabot W. Dodge, Constable




                                        77
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                         Commonwealth of Massachusetts
                                State Primary
                          Tuesday, September 14, 2010

The Number of Votes Cast were as follows:
Precinct 1     372               16.8% of 2,216 Registered Voters
Precinct 2     354               18.6% of 1,906 Registered Voters
Precinct 3     350               18.6% of 1,878 Registered Voters
Precinct 4     411               18.9% of 2,170 Registered Voters
Precinct 5     431               20.3% of 2,123 Registered Voters
Precinct 6     421               19.4% of 2,175 Registered Voters
Precinct 7     371               17.5% of 2,123 Registered Voters
Total          2,710             18.6% of 14,591 Registered Voters

Canvas Completed at 10:00 pm

                                REPUBLICAN PARTY
Governor
Precinct           1      2       3      4      5      6      7      Total
Blanks             5      3       2      8      11     8      7      44
Charles D. Baker   161    173     125    198    150    195    194    1196
All Others         2      1       1      1      4      0      1      10
TOTALS             168    177     128    207    165    203    202    1250


Lieutenant Governor
Precinct         1        2      3       4      5      6      7      Total
Blanks           18       21     12      25     24     28     20     148
Richard R. Tisei 149      156    115     182    139    175    181    1097
Keith Davis      1        0      1       0      2      0      1      5
All Others       0        0      0       0      0      0      0      0
TOTALS           168      177    128     207    165    203    202    1250

Attorney General
Precinct            1      2       3      4      5      6      7      Total
Blanks              140    150     97     177    139    170    175    1048
Guy A. Carbone      15     12      11     15     12     15     10     90
James P. Mckenna    9      13      16     11     11     16     15     91
All Others          4      2       4      4      3      2      2      21
TOTALS              168    177     128    207    165    203    202    1250




                                          78
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Secretary of State
Precinct                 1       2        3       4       5       6       7        Total
Blanks                   34      32       25      49      40      50      36       266
William C. Campbell      133     145      103     158     123     152     166      980
All Others               1       0        0       0       2       1       0        4
TOTALS                   168     177      128     207     165     203     202      1250


Treasurer
Precinct           1       2       3       4       5       6       7      Total
Blanks             38      36      23      55      46      52      40     290
Karyn E. Polito    130     141     105     151     118     151     162    958
All Others         0       0       0       1       1       0       0      2
TOTALS             168     177     128     207     165     203     202    1250


Auditor
Precinct                   1       2       3       4       5       6      7        Total
Blanks                     25      28      12      35      26      27     24       177
Mary Z. Connaughton        128     129     99      154     106     156    156      928
Kamal Jain                 14      19      17      17      33      20     22       142
All Others                 1       1       0       1       0       0      0        3
TOTALS                     168     177     128     207     165     203    202      1250


Representative in Congress
Precinct                 1          2       3       4       5       6        7      Total
Blanks                   12         8       7       14      11      18       5      75
Bill Hudak               121        140     90      150     125     144      168    938
Robert J. McCarthy, Jr. 35          28      31      43      28      40       29     234
All Others               0          1       0       0       1       1        0      3
TOTALS                   168        177     128     207     165     203      202    1250

Councillor
Precinct     1       2       3       4       5       6       7       Total
Blanks       167     173     127     193     165     201     201     1227
All Others   1       4       1       14      0       2       1       23
TOTALS       168     177     128     207     165     203     202     1250




                                             79
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010



Senator in General Court
Precinct                     1      2      3         4      5      6       7       Total
Blanks                       33     34     26        51     45     66      42      297
Christopher Jordan Dent      135    143    102       155    119    136     160     950
All Others                   0      0      0         1      1      1       0       3
TOTALS                       168    177    128       207    165    203     202     1250


Representative in General Court
Precinct            1     2     3          4         5      6      7       Total
Blanks              27     27   22         40        26     38     28      208
Katherine Kozitza 141 149 106              166       138    165    174     1039
All Others          0      1    0          1         1      0      0       3
TOTALS              168 177 128            207       165    203    202     1250


District Attorney
Precinct       1      2      3      4      5         6      7      Total
Blanks         165    176    125    203    162       200    202    1233
All Others     3      1      3      4      3         3      0      17
TOTALS         168    177    128    207    165       203    202    1250


Sheriff
Precinct                   1      2      3      4         5      6      7     Total
Blanks                     23     30     26     40        33     54     38    244
Frank G. Cousins, Jr.      145    147    102    166       132    149    163   1004
All Others                 0      0      0      1         0      0      1     2
TOTALS                     168    177    128    207       165    203    202   1250


                                 DEMOCRATIC PARTY
Governor
Precinct             1      2      3      4         5      6      7      Total
Blanks               36     26     39     29        70     44     43     287
Deval L. Patrick     157    147    180    172       192    170    126    1144
All Others           9      2      1      3         4      4      0      23
TOTALS               202    175    220    204       266    218    169    1454




                                               80
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Lieutenant Governor
Precinct            1        2       3       4       5        6      7       Total
Blanks              39       36      47      45      76       57     51      351
Timothy P. Murray 161        137     172     158     189      160    118     1095
All Others          2        2       1       1       1        1      0       8
TOTALS              202      175     220     204     266      218    169     1454

Attorney General
Precinct         1       2       3       4        5      6       7        Total
Blanks           29      26      38      41       60     47      42       283
Martha Coakley 170       147     180     162      204    171     124      1158
All Others       3       2       2       1        2      0       3        13
TOTALS           202     175     220     204      266    218     169      1454

Secretary of State
Precinct                   1       2       3       4       5        6      7      Total
Blanks                     34      40      40      50      68       62     42     336
William Francis Galvin     166     134     179     154     196      156    127    1112
All Others                 2       1       1       0       2        0      0      6
TOTALS                     202     175     220     204     266      218    169    1454

Treasurer
Precinct             1       2       3       4       5        6      7       Total
Blanks               27      33      18      26      20       30     19      173
Steven Grossman      134     102     164     139     213      154    119     1025
Stephen J. Murphy    40      40      37      39      33       34     31      254
All Others           1       0       1       0       0        0      0       2
TOTALS               202     175     220     204     266      218    169     1454


Auditor
Precinct               1       2       3       4        5      6       7      Total
Blanks                 24      42      27      30       47     48      21     239
Suzanne M. Bump        124     90      138     107      144    118     100    821
Guy William Glodis     15      22      19      21       42     28      26     173
Mike Lake              38      20      34      46       33     24      22     217
All Others             1       1       2       0        0      0       0      4
TOTALS                 202     175     220     204      266    218     169    1454




                                             81
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Representative in Congress
Precinct          1     2      3      4         5       6      7      Total
Blanks            25    21     34     38        55      35     35     243
John F. Tierney 175 152        185    166       210     182    134    1204
All Others        2     2      1      0         1       1      0      7
TOTALS            202 175      220    204       266     218    169    1454


Councillor
Precinct               1      2      3      4          5      6      7       Total
Blanks                 41     45     40     56         69     63     33      347
Mary-Ellen Manning     128    99     143    119        157    127    110     883
Jason A. Panos         33     31     36     29         40     28     26      223
All Others             0      0      1      0          0      0      0       1
TOTALS                 202    175    220    204        266    218    169     1454


Senator in General Court
Precinct             1       2      3      4          5      6      7      Total
Blanks               41      46     48     48         68     57     46     354
Thomas M. McGee 160          129    171    156        196    161    122    1095
All Others           1       0      1      0          2      0      1      5
TOTALS               202     175    220    204        266    218    169    1454


Representative in General Court
Precinct          1    2     3       4          5      6      7      Total
Blanks            19   13    28      21         31     22     30     164
Lori A. Ehrlich 182 161 191          183        234    195    138    1284
All Others        1    1     1       0          1      1      1      6
TOTALS            202 175 220        204        266    218    169    1454

District Attorney
Precinct               1      2      3      4          5      6      7        Total
Blanks                 40     45     49     45         71     60     46       356
Jonathan W. Blodgett   160    130    170    159        195    158    123      1095
All Others             2      0      1      0          0      0      0        3
TOTALS                 202    175    220    204        266    218    169      1454




                                           82
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Sheriff
Precinct              1     2     3      4     5     6     7     Total
Blanks                56    61    74     76    100   84    64    515
Damian M. Anketell    142   110   145    127   165   134   105   928
All Others            4     4     1      1     1     0     0     11
TOTALS                202   175   220    204   266   218   169   1454




                                        83
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                 COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
                      WILLIAM FRANCIS GALVIN
                 SECRETARY OF THE COMMONWEALTH

        Essex , SS.
To the Constables of the City/Town of Marblehead

         GREETING:
In the name of the Commonwealth, you are hereby required to notify and warn the
inhabitants of said city or town who are qualified to vote in the State Election to
vote at

Precinct 1        Marblehead Community Center
                  10 Humphrey St.
Precinct 2        Star of the Sea Community Center
                  80 Atlantic Ave.
Precinct 3        Star of the Sea Community Center
                  80 Atlantic Ave.
Precinct 4        Star of the Sea Community Center
                  80 Atlantic Ave.
Precinct 5        Marblehead Community Center
                  10 Humphrey St.
Precinct 6        Marblehead Community Center
                  10 Humphrey St.
Precinct 7        Marblehead Community Center
                  10 Humphrey St.

on TUESDAY, THE SECOND DAY OF NOVEMBER, 2010, from 7:00 A.M.
to 8:00 P.M. for the following purpose:

To cast their votes in the State Election for the candidates for the following offices:

GOVERNOR/LT. GOVERNOR                          FOR THIS COMMONWEALTH
ATTORNEY GENERAL                               FOR THIS COMMONWEALTH
SECRETARY OF STATE                             FOR THIS COMMONWEALTH
TREASURER                                      FOR THIS COMMONWEALTH
AUDITOR                                        FOR THIS COMMONWEALTH
REPRESENTATIVE IN CONGRESS                     SIXTH DISTRICT
COUNCILLOR                                     FIFTH DISTRICT




                                          84
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


SENATOR IN GENERAL COURT                              THIRD ESSEX & MIDDLESEX
                                                         DISTRICT
REPRESENTATIVE IN GENERAL COURT.                        EIGHTH ESSEX DISTRICT
DISTRICT ATTORNEY                                       EASTERN DISTRICT
SHERIFF                                                 ESSEX COUNTY

QUESTION 1: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the
Senate or the House of Representatives before May 4, 2010?
SUMMARY
    This proposed law would remove the Massachusetts sales tax on alcoholic
beverages and alcohol, where the sale of such beverages and alcohol or their
importation into the state is already subject to a separate excise tax under state law.
The proposed law would take effect on January 1, 2011.
A YES VOTE would remove the state sales tax on alcoholic beverages and alcohol
where their sale or importation into the state is subject to an excise tax under state law.
A NO VOTE would make no change in the state sales tax on alcoholic beverages
and alcohol.

QUESTION 2: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the
Senate or the House of Representatives before May 4, 2010?
SUMMARY
     This proposed law would repeal an existing state law that allows a qualified
organization wishing to build government-subsidized housing that includes low- or
moderate-income units to apply for a single comprehensive permit from a city or
town’s zoning board of appeals (ZBA), instead of separate permits from each local
agency or official having jurisdiction over any aspect of the proposed housing. The
repeal would take effect on January 1, 2011, but would not stop or otherwise affect
any proposed housing that had already received both a comprehensive permit and a
building permit for at least one unit.


     Under the existing law, the ZBA holds a public hearing on the application and
considers the recommendations of local agencies and officials. The ZBA may grant a
comprehensive permit that may include conditions or requirements concerning the
height, site plan, size, shape, or building materials of the housing. Persons aggrieved
by the ZBA’s decision to grant a permit may appeal it to a court. If the ZBA denies
the permit or grants it with conditions or requirements that make the housing
uneconomic to build or to operate, the applicant may appeal to the state Housing




                                           85
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Appeals Committee (HAC).
      After a hearing, if the HAC rules that the ZBA’s denial of a comprehensive
permit was unreasonable and not consistent with local needs, the HAC orders the
ZBA to issue the permit. If the HAC rules that the ZBA’s decision issuing a
comprehensive permit with conditions or requirements made the housing uneconomic
to build or operate and was not consistent with local needs, the HAC orders the ZBA
to modify or remove any such condition or requirement so as to make the proposal no
longer uneconomic. The HAC cannot order the ZBA to issue any permit that would
allow the housing to fall below minimum safety standards or site plan requirements. If
the HAC rules that the ZBA’s action was consistent with local needs, the HAC must
uphold it even if it made the housing uneconomic. The HAC’s decision is subject to
review in the courts.
      A condition or requirement makes housing “uneconomic” if it would prevent a
public agency or non-profit organization from building or operating the housing
except at a financial loss, or it would prevent a limited dividend organization from
building or operating the housing without a reasonable return on its investment.
      A ZBA’s decision is “consistent with local needs” if it applies requirements that
are reasonable in view of the regional need for low- and moderate-income housing
and the number of low-income persons in the city or town, as well as the need to
protect health and safety, promote better site and building design, and preserve open
space, if those requirements are applied as equally as possible to both subsidized and
unsubsidized housing. Requirements are considered “consistent with local needs” if
more than 10% of the city or town’s housing units are low- or moderate-income units
or if such units are on sites making up at least 1.5% of the total private land zoned for
residential, commercial, or industrial use in the city or town. Requirements are also
considered “consistent with local needs” if the application would result, in any one
calendar year, in beginning construction of low- or moderate-income housing on sites
making up more than 0.3% of the total private land zoned for residential, commercial,
or industrial use in the city or town, or on ten acres, whichever is larger.
          The proposed law states that if any of its parts were declared invalid, the
other parts would stay in effect.
A YES VOTE would repeal the state law allowing the issuance of a single
comprehensive permit to build housing that includes low- or moderate-income
units.
A NO VOTE would make no change in the state law allowing issuance of such a
comprehensive permit.

QUESTION 3: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the
Senate or the House of Representatives before May 4, 2010?




                                          86
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010



SUMMARY
     This proposed law would reduce the state sales and use tax rates (which were
6.25% as of September 2009) to 3% as of January 1, 2011. It would make the same
reduction in the rate used to determine the amount to be deposited with the state
Commissioner of Revenue by non-resident building contractors as security for the
payment of sales and use tax on tangible personal property used in carrying out their
contracts.
     The proposed law provides that if the 3% rates would not produce enough revenues
to satisfy any lawful pledge of sales and use tax revenues in connection with any bond,
note, or other contractual obligation, then the rates would instead be reduced to the
lowest level allowed by law.
     The proposed law would not affect the collection of moneys due the
Commonwealth for sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property or services occurring before January 1, 2011.
          The proposed law states that if any of its parts were declared invalid, the
other parts would stay in effect.’
A YES VOTE would reduce the state sales and use tax rates to 3%.
A NO VOTE would make no change in the state sales and use tax rates.

QUESTION 4: THIS QUESTION IS NOT BINDING
Shall the state representative from this district be instructed to vote in favor of
legislation that would allow the state to regulate the taxation, cultivation, and sale of
marijuana to adults?

         Hereof fail not and make return of this warrant with your doings thereon at
the time and place of said voting.

         Given under our hands this 13th day of October, 2010.

T. MICHAEL ROCKETT
JUDITH R. JACOBI
JACKIE BELF-BECKER
JAMES E. NYE
WILLIAM L. WOODFIN, II
Selectmen of the Town of Marblehead


Cabot W. Dodge, Constable, October 18, 2010




                                          87
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                      Commonwealth of Massachusetts
                              State Election
                        Tuesday, November 2, 2010


The Number of Votes Cast were as follows:
Precinct 1     1469              65.1% of 2,256 Registered Voters
Precinct 2     1269              65.5% of 1,937 Registered Voters
Precinct 3     1273              67.1% of 1,897 Registered Voters
Precinct 4     1639              74.4% of 2,204 Registered Voters
Precinct 5     1483              69.4% of 2,138 Registered Voters
Precinct 6     1595              73.0% of 2,186 Registered Voters
Precinct 7     1442              67.1% of 2,148 Registered Voters
Total          10,170            68.9% of 14,766 Registered Voters

Canvas Completed at 12:00 am

Governor & Lieutenant Governor
Precinct            1      2       3      4      5      6      7      Total
Blanks              6      12      7      12     10     10     11     68
Patrick & Murray    723    587     618    659    638    692    565    4482
Baker & Tisei       673    599     578    920    786    834    789    5179
Cahill & Luscocco   52     57      56     41     28     47     63     344
Stein & Purcell     14     14      14     6      21     12     14     95
All Others          1      0       0      1      0      0      0      2
Total               1469 1269      1273   1639   1483   1595   1442   10170

Attorney General
Precinct            1       2      3      4      5      6      7      Total
Blanks              26      28     20     30     30     35     35     204
Martha Coakley      902     778    803    916    922    950    791    6062
James P. Mckenna    540     462    449    693    531    610    616    3901
All Others          1       1      1      0      0      0      0      3
Total               1469    1269   1273   1639   1483   1595   1442   10170




                                     88
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Secretary of State
Precinct                   1         2       3          4       5        6       7       Total
Blanks                     51        56      46         72      56       73      60      414
William Francis Galvin     874       781     817        881     938      914     804     6009
William C. Campbell        519       406     389        668     468      590     559     3599
James D. Henderson         25        25      21         18      21       18      19      147
All Others                 0         1       0          0       0        0       0       1
Total                      1469      1269    1273       1639    1483     1595    1442    10170

Treasurer
Precinct            1         2       3          4       5        6       7        Total
Blanks              58        59      39         62      35       59      71       383
Steven Grossman     760       659     723        777     857      811     669      5256
Karyn E. Polito     651       551     511        800     591      725     702      4531
All Others          0         0       0          0       0        0       0        0
Total               1469      1269    1273       1639    1483     1595    1442     10170

Auditor
Precinct                          1         2       3          4       5        6       7      Total
Blanks                            99        123     97         145     120      122     121    827
Suzanne M. Bump                   633       533     565        559     636      607     505    4038
Mary Z. Connaughton               679       549     558        877     673      814     774    4924
Nathaniel Alexander Fortune       58        63      53         58      54       52      42     380
All Others                        0         1       0          0       0        0       0      1
Total                             1469      1269    1273       1639    1483     1595    1442   10170

Representative in Congress (6th District)
Precinct           1      2        3      4             5       6        7       Total
Blanks             40     48       37     53            51      61       52      342
John F. Tierney    845    641      789    812           862     886      733     5568
Bill Hudak         582    473      447    768           567     645      654     4136
All Others         2      7        0      6             3       3        3       24
Total              1469 1269 1273 1639                  1483    1595     1442    10170




                                            89
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010



Councillor (5th District)
Precinct                  1      2      3      4      5       6       7       Total
Blanks                    537    439    456    668    535     617     590     3842
Mary-Ellen Manning 917           823    806    963    939     967     841     6256
All Others                15     7      11     8      9       11      11      72
Total                     1469   1269   1273   1639   1483    1595    1442    10170

Senator in General Court (3rd Essex & Middlesex District)
Precinct                    1       2     3      4        5         6       7        Total
Blanks                      85      93    75     110      75        75      86       599
Thomas M. McGee             803     695   737    779      864       862     698      5438
Christopher Jordan Dent     580     481   461    750      543       657     658      4130
All Others                  1       0     0      0        1         1       0        3
Total                       1469 1269 1273 1639 1483                1595    1442     10170

Representative in General Court (8th Essex District)
Precinct             1      2        3      4        5       6       7       Total
Blanks               41     40       26     37       20      39      41      244
Lori A. Ehrlich      877    766      800    925      958     929     796     6051
Katherine Kozitza    551    460      446    676      504     627     605     3869
All Others           0      2        1      1        1       0       0       5
Total                1469 1269 1273 1639 1483                1595    1442    10170

District Attorney - Eastern District
Precinct                 1       2      3      4      5       6       7       Total
Blanks                   505     401    412    598    489     555     526     3486
Jonathan W. Blodgett 962         861    855    1035   988     1030    904     6635
All Others               2       7      6      6      6       10      12      49
Total                    1469 1269      1273   1639   1483    1595    1442    10170

Sheriff - Essex County
Precinct                 1       2      3      4      5        6       7       Total
Blanks                   148     109    117    157    150      152     131     964
Frank G. Cousins, Jr.    805     702    660    972    807      945     881     5772
Damian Anketell          418     344    389    412    419      380     320     2682
Kevin J. Leach           97      113    106    98     106      118     110     748
All Others               1       1      1      0      1        0       0       4
Total                    1469    1269   1273   1639   1483     1595    1442    10170




                                        90
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010




Question 1
Precinct     1      2      3      4      5      6      7      Total
Blanks       25     35     34     41     34     36     29     234
Yes          702    667    634    846    777    832    821    5279
No           742    567    605    752    672    727    592    4657
Total        1469   1269   1273   1639   1483   1595   1442   10170

Question 2
Precinct     1      2      3      4      5      6      7      Total
Blanks       85     95     94     112    103    95     94     678
Yes          610    485    474    662    542    648    607    4028
No           774    689    705    865    838    852    741    5464
Total        1469   1269   1273   1639   1483   1595   1442   10170

Question 3
Precinct     1      2      3      4      5      6      7      Total
Blanks       26     23     35     43     23     26     30     206
Yes          590    529    523    712    655    680    693    4382
No           853    717    715    884    805    889    719    5582
Total        1469   1269   1273   1639   1483   1595   1442   10170

Question 4
Precinct     1      2      3      4      5      6      7      Total
Blanks       150    132    121    163    129    129    153    977
Yes          776    663    684    815    767    787    697    5189
No           543    474    468    661    587    679    592    4004
Total        1469   1269   1273   1639   1483   1595   1442   10170




                                     91
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


      TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD ELECTED OFFICIALS 2010 - 2011

SELECTMAN                                              Term Expires
--Abbot Hall, Marblehead, MA 01945
Jackie Belf-Becker                                            2011
Judith R. Jacobi                                              2011
James E. Nye - Chair                                          2011
T. Michael Rockett                                            2011
Wiliam L. Woodfin, II                                         2011

TOWN CLERK
--Abbot Hall, Marblehead, MA 01945
Robin A. Michaud                                              2013

ASSESSORS
--Mary A. Alley Building, Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945
Ann Nancy McCarthy                                            2013
Douglas E. Percy                                              2012
John P. Kelley                                                2011

CEMETERY COMMISSION
--Waterside Cemetery, Marblehead, MA 01945
Richard F. Coletti                                            2013
David M. Cashman                                              2012
Rose Ann Wheeler McCarthy                                     2011

BOARD OF HEALTH
--Mary A. Alley Building, Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945
Helaine Hazlett                                               2013
Michelle B. Gottlieb                                          2012
Todd Belf-Becker                                              2011

HOUSING AUTHORITY
--26 Rowland Street, Marblehead, MA 01945
Robert T. Bryne                                               2015
Pamela J. Foye                                                2014
Richard M. Whitehill                                          2013
Jean R. Eldridge                                              2011
Peter Russell – Appointed by State                            2011




                                     92
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010



TRUSTEES OF ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY
--235 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA 01945                 Term Expires
Maura K. Murnane                                               2013
Philip Sweeney                                                 2013
Phyllis B. Smith                                               2012
Peggy G. Blass                                                 2012
Jean Howe                                                      2011
Robin A. Michaud                                               2011

MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSIONER
-80 Commercial Street, Marblehead, MA 01945
Calvin T. Crawford                                              2013
Walter E. Homan                                                 2013
Wilbur E. Bassett                                               2012
Philip W. Sweeney                                               2012
Charles O. Phillips                                             2011

MODERATOR
Mary A. Alley Building, Marblehead MA
Gary A. Spiess                                                  2011

PLANNING BOARD
--c/o Engineering Office, Mary A. Alley Building, Marblehead, MA 01945
Edward Nilsson                                                   2013
James Bishop                                                     2012
Karl A. Johnson                                                  2012
Philip Helmes                                                    2011
Kurt A. James                                                    2011

RECREATION & PARK COMMISSION
--Marblehead Community Center, 10 Humphrey Street, Marblehead, MA
Linda A. Rice Collins                                       2011
Sam K. Ganglani                                             2011
Derek Y. Norcross                                           2011
Charles E. Nyren                                            2011
Charles E. Osborne, Jr.                                     2011




                                    93
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


SCHOOL COMMITTEE
--Mary A. Alley Building, Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                         Term Expires
Jonathan S. Lederman                                         2013
Kathleen E. Leonardson                                       2013
Eurim Chun                                                   2012
Patricia M. Blackmer                                         2011
Richard Scott Nohelty                                        2011

WATER & SEWER COMMISSION
--Tower Way, Marblehead MA 01945                         Term Expires
Wilbur E. Bassett                                           2013
F. Carlton Siegel                                           2013
John P. Doane                                               2011
Bradford Nick Freeman, Jr.                                  2011




                                   94
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                         APPOINTED OFFICIALS


TOWN ADMINISTRATOR
Anthony M. Sasso

AMERICAN DISABILITIES ACT COORDINATOR
Kyle A. Wiley                                      2011

ANIMAL INSPECTOR at $2,400 per year
Isabel M. Lorenco                                  2011

BUILDING COMMISSIONER AND INSPECTORS
Commissioner - Robert S. Ives, Jr.                 2011
Local Inspector - Chris Butler                     2011
Local Inspector – Dan R. Williams                  2011
Plumbing Inspector - Domingos Furtado              2011
Assistant Plumbing Inspector – Peter McCarriston   2011
Assistant Plumbing Inspector – Bradford Smith      2011
Wiring Inspector – Ronald J. Marks                 2011
Assistant Wiring Inspector – Eric F.S. Chisholm    2011

CANINE CONTROL CLERK
Robin Michaud – Town Clerk                         2011

ASSISTANT DOG OFFICERS FOR THE PARKS
Robert Gillis                                      2011
Peter James                                        2011
C. Michael Lane                                    2011
Brad Delisle                                       2011
Reggie Berry                                       2011
Mike Attridge                                      2011
Greg Snow                                          2011
Pat Sylvester                                      2011
Brendan Egan                                       2011

TOWN COUNSEL at $2,000 per year
Jeffrey N. Shribman                                2011
         Assistant Town Counsel:
         Brody, Hardoon, Perkins & Kesten          2011




                                     95
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


        Leonard Kesten                             2011
        Marc J. Miller                             2011
        Earl Weissman                              2011
        Patrick J. Costello                        2011
        Lisa L. Mead                               2011
        Francis Mayo                               2011

COUNCIL ON AGING DIRECTOR
Patricia C. Roberts                                2011

EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR
Charles P. Cerrutti                                2011

ENGINEERING AND CONSERVATION ADMINISTRATOR
William C. Lanphear                                2011

FLAG OFFICER
David C. Rodgers                                   2011

FOREST WARDEN – Term: 1 Year
Chief Jason R. Gilliland, Fire Department          2011

HARBOR MASTER AND ASSISTANTS
Charles J. Dalferro, Harbor Master                 2011
         Assistant Harbor Masters
         Webb Russell                              2011
         Daniel Roads, Jr.                         2011
         Assistant Harbormasters (Seasonal):
         Charles Cullanie                          2011
         Thomas Murray                             2011
         Ray Gauthier                              2011
         Jeffrey Flynn                             2011
         John Vigneron                             2011
         John Payne                                2011
         Alternates:
         Carlo Fratini                             2011
         Frank MacIver                             2011

KEEPER OF THE LOCK UP                              2011
Chief Robert O. Picariello




                                       96
               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010



LICENSING AUTHORITY, DULY DESIGNATED AGENTS
Police Chief Robert O. Picariello                 2011
Provisional Captain: Mark Mills                   2011
Lieutenants:
           Matthew Freeman                        2011
           Jonathan Lunt                          2011
           David J. Millett                       2011
           Nicholas Economou      (Provisional)   2011
Sergeants:
           Sean Sweeney                           2011
           Donald Decker                          2011
           Marion Keating                         2011
           Jason Conrad                           2011

MEASURER OF LEATHER – Term: 1 Year
John Smidt                                        2011

TOWN DESIGNEE MASS. WATER RESOURCE AUTHORITY Term: 1Year
F. Carlton Siegel                                 2011
Alternate: Charles R. McCollum, Water/Sewer Dept. 2011

PARKING CLERK /HEARING CLERK – Term: 1 Year
Anthony M. Sasso, Town Administrator              2011

CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER
Rebecca L. Curran                                 2011

PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
David M. Donahue                                  2011

RETIREMENT BOARD – Term: 1 Year
Charles H. Gessner                                2011

“RIGHT TO KNOW” COORDINATOR – Term: 1 Year
Jason R. Gilliland – Fire Department              2011

SEALER OF WEIGHTS & MEASURES
David C. Rodgers                                  2011




                             97
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


SPECIAL AUXILIARY POLICE
Patrolmen:
          James Donovan                              2011

SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS
Robert S. Ives, Jr.                                  2011

TAX COLLECTOR/TREASURER
Patricia Kelly Murray                                2011

VETERANS’ AGENT & DIRECTOR OF VETERANS’ SERVICES
Term: 1 Year
David C. Rodgers                              2011

VETERANS’ GRAVES OFFICER - Term: 1 Year
David C. Rodgers                                     2011

WORKERS’ COMPENSATION AGENT - Term: 1 Year
Massachusetts Interlocal Insurance Association       2011

TOWN ACCOUNTANT– Term 3 Years
John J. McGinn                                       2013

AFFORDABLE HOUSING TRUST FUND – Term 1 year
Board of Selectmen                                   2011
Vacant, Finance Committee Representative             2011
Vacant, Fair Housing Committee Representative        2011
Vacant, At Large                                     2011
Vacant, At Large                                     2011

ARMED FORCES LIAISON– Term: 1 Year
John M. McCloskey                                    2011

BOARD OF ABBOT LIBRARY SECOND CENTURY FUND –Term: 1 Year
Thomas A. McNulty                              2011
Judith Eissner                                 2011

CABLE TV OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE – Term: 3 Years (staggered)
Vacant                                               2013
Nancy Marrs                                          2012




                              98
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Paul Rabin                                                      2012
Alan G. Raymond                                                 2011
Vacant                                                          2013
Wayne Avridson                                                  2013
Jerry O’Neill                                                   2011
Libby Moore                                                     2011

CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE – Term: 3 Years
Michael Auerbach                                                2013
Thomas Gawrys                                                   2012
Edward Lang                                                     2012
Victor Wild                                                     2012
Joe Zelloe                                                      2013
John J. McGinn – Ex Officio                                     2011

CARETAKER AND ASSISTANT, FORT BEACH – Term: 1 Year
Jeffrey P. Flynn                                   2011
Douglas Percy - Assistant                          2011

CHAPLAIN – MARBLEHEAD POLICE DEPARTMENT – Term: 1 Year
Rabbi Jonas Goldberg                          2011

SURGEON – MARBLEHEAD POLICE DEPARTMENT Term: 1 Year
Dr. Jack Richman                                2011

CONSERVATION COMMISSION – Term: 3 Years (staggered)
Frederick Sullivan                                              2013
Ken Fisher                                                      2013
Don Tritschler                                                  2013
Craig Smith                                                     2012
Deb Payson                                                      2012
Walter S. Haug                                                  2012
Brian LeClair                                                   2011

CONSTABLES for Postings in Town – Term: 1 Year
Cabot Dodge                                                     2011

CONSTABLES
    • for the Purpose of Serving Civil Process – Term: 1 Year
Cabot Dodge                                                     2011




                                    99
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Donald B. Hurwitz                                     2011
Paul Minsky                                           2011
Nathaniel C. Greene                                   2011
Thomas K. Egan                                        2011
Richard Rockett                                       2011
Douglas Perry                                         2011
Peter Yasi                                            2011
David Andrew Deutsch                                  2011

CONSTABLES
   • Shellfish
Wayne O. Attridge – Chief Constable – Term: 3 Years   2013

Term: 1 Year
Raymond H. Bates, Jr.                                 2011
David Donahue                                         2011
R. Thomas Hamond                                      2011
Jeffrey Flynn                                         2011
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.                             2011
Jack Attridge                                         2011
Deborah Fadden                                        2011
Susan Hogan                                           2011
Douglas Aikman                                        2011
Douglas Percy                                         2011

COUNCIL ON AGING – Term: 3 Years
Edward Bell                                           2013
Freda Hoyt McGuire                                    2012
Joseph Dever                                          2011
Elizabeth Michaud                                     2011
Jeanne Louizos                                        2011
Catherine Brown                                       2012
John Crowley                                          2012
Lisa Hooper                                           2013
Dana Denault                                          2013

DESIGN REVIEW BOARD – Term: 3 Year
Ralph Khouri                                          2011

EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES COUNCIL – Term: 1 Year




                                    100
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Jason R. Gilliland– Marblehead Fire Department     2011

FAIR HOUSING COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Paul Crosby, Marblehead Counseling Center          2011
Sarah Drewry                                       2011
Joan McIntyre                                      2011
Dirk Isbrandtsen                                   2011
Ann Cohen                                          2011
Don Davies                                         2011
Janet Robinson                                     2011
Bonnie Howard                                      2011
Gordon King                                        2011
Mimi Hollister                                     2011
Kurt James – Planning Board Representative         2011

FENCE VIEWERS – Term: 1 Year
Vacant                                             2011

FINANCE COMMITTEE – Term: 3 Years
Vacant                                             2012
Moses Grader                                       2011
David E. Harris, Jr.                               2012
Steven J. Haskell                                  2011
Vacant                                             2011
Patricia Moore                                     2013
Matthew Herring                                    2013
Lisa Louden                                        2013
Eric Cole                                          2012
Robert Ross – Clerk

FIREWORKS COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Alexander Falk                                     2011

FORT SEWALL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Vacant, Marblehead Museum and Historical Society   2011
Joyce Booth, Historical Commission                 2011
Ed Lang                                            2011
R. Thomas Hamond                                   2011
Brenda Arnold (OMIA Rep.)                          2011
Vacant (OHDC Rep.)                                 2011




                                     101
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Lloyd H. Caswell, Disabilities Commission           2011
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner                     2011
Derek Norcross, Recreation and Parks Department     2011
Larry Sands, Glover’s Regiment                      2011
Philip F. Norcross, Citizen at Large                2011

HARBORS & WATERS BOARD – Term: 1 Year
John Doub                                           2011
Gary P. Gregory                                     2011
Jay Michaud                                         2011
William G. Pattison                                 2011
Paul N. Williams                                    2011
Alternates:
                 Kenneth Breen                      2011
                 Paul Stevens                       2011
                 Spencer Moore                      2011

HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
TEAM - Term: 1 year
Charles P. Cerrutti, Emergency Management Director     2011
William Lanphear, Engineering & Conservation Admin.    2011
Charles R. McCollum, Superintendent, Water/Sewer Dept. 2011
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner                        2011
William E. Conly, Historical Commission                2011

HISTORIAN – Term: 1 Year
Elizabeth Hunt                                      2011

HISTORICAL COMMISSION – Term: 3 Years (staggered)
William E. Conly                                    2013
Joyce L. Booth                                      2012
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.                           2012
Paul C. Johnson                                     2011
Nancy Graves                                        2011
Don Gardner                                         2011
Vacant                                              2013
Dr. Raymond Cole Jr., Emeritus Member

HOBBS MEMORIAL, SELECTMEN’S AGENT – Term: 1 Year
Paul Crosby                                         2011




                                     102
               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010



LOGAN AIRPORT, PREFERENTIAL RUNWAY COMMITTEE –
Charles H. Gessner                           2011

MARBLEHEAD CULTURAL COUNCIL – Term: 3 Years
Howard Rosenkrantz                                  2011
Ava Lawrence                                        2011
Phyllis McCarthy                                    2013
Vacant                                              2013
Joanne Johnston                                     2013
Vacant                                              2013
Georgia Murray                                      2012
Joan Hollister                                      2012
Carol Booth                                         2011
Betsy Morris                                        2011
Nora Falk                                           2011
Gloria Coolidge                                     2011
Virginia von Rueden                                 2012

MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY ACCESS AND MEDIA, INC. Term: 3 years
Robert F. Peck, Jr. (appointed by MCAM)              2010
Patricia O’Hare Williams (appointed by MCAM)         2011
Ed Bell                                              2012
Elizabeth Moore, School Representative               2012
Ron Olson, Cable Television Oversight Committee Rep. 2011

MARBLEHEAD DISABILITIES COMMISSION – Term:3 Years
Carol Arnould                                       2012
Lloyd Caswell                                       2011
Katie Farrell                                       2011
Mary Levine                                         2012
Maureen McKinnon-Tucker                             2011
Andrea Mountain                                     2013
Patricia Sullivan                                   2013
(Elected Official rotating)                         2013
Fraffie Welch                                       2012

MARBLEHEAD FOREVER COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Fraffie Welch                                       2011




                            103
               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Vacant                                            2011
Vacant                                            2011
Vacant                                            2011
Vacant                                            2011

MASSACHUSETTS ETHICS COMMISSION
MUNICIPAL LIAISON
Jeffrey N. Shribman                               2011

MBTA ADVISORY BOARD – Term: 1 Year
John Heffernan                                    2011

METROPOLITAN AREA PLANNING COUNCIL–Term::3 Years
James E. Bishop                                  2011
Rebecca L. Curran, Alternate                     2011

OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISSION–Term:1 Year
Cheryl Boots
F. Reed Cutting, Jr.                              2011
Thomas Saltsman                                   2011
Charles Hibbard                                   2011
Sally Sands                                       2011
Alternates:
Bette Hunt                                        2011
Karyn Lang                                        2011

OLD BURIAL HILL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE – Term:1 Year
Bette Hunt                                        2011
Susan Hogan                                       2011
E. Russell Peach, Jr.                             2011
Pam Peterson                                      2011
Richard Coletti, Cemetery Representative          2011
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner                   2011

REGISTRARS OF VOTERS– Term: 3 Years
 Robin Michaud (Town Clerk)                       2013
J. Michael Canniffe                               2013
Joyce H. Lofmark                                  2012
Donald A. Doliber                                 2011




                             104
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


SCHOLARSHIP COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Audrey Brenner                                        2011
Alex Kulevich                                         2011
Edward Harvey                                         2011
Nancy Graves                                          2011
Helaine Hazlett                                       2011
Karen Meyer                                           2011
Nancy Marrs                                           2011
Tom Despres                                           2011
Jeannie Patch                                         2011

SIGN CULLER – Term: 1 Year
Vacant                                                2011

SISTER CITY LIAISON – Grasse, France – Term: 1 Year
Myriam Zuber                                          2011

SMART GROWTH COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Dirk Isbrandtsen                                      2011
Kurt James                                            2011
Gordon King                                           2011
Michael McCloskey                                     2011
Don Morgan                                            2011
William L. Woodfin, II                                2011
Judith R. Jacobi                                      2011
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner                       2011

TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION – Term: 1 Year
Helaine Hazlett                                       2011
Ann Marie Hunter                                      2011
Harvey Michaels                                       2011
Barbara Schneider                                     2011
Deacon John E. Whipple                                2011
Chief Robert Picariello                               2011
Monica Tecca                                          2011
Melissa Volk Aizanman                                 2011
Judy Luise                                            2011
Mary Levine                                           2011
Loren Weston                                          2011
Ben Katzman                                           2011




                                 105
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


TAXATION AID COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Patricia C. Roberts                                      2011
Pamela Foye                                              2011
Vacant                                                   2011
Patricia Kelly Murray, Treasurer                         2011
John Kelley, Chairman Board of Assessors                 2011

TOWN PHYSICIAN – Term: 1 Year
Quadrant Health Strategies                               2011

TRAFFIC & SAFETY ADVISORY COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
John P. Doane                                             2011
Brian Hitchcock                                           2011
F. Carlton Siegel                                         2011
Chief Jason R. Gilliland – Fire Department – Ex Officio   2011
Chief Robert O. Picariello – Police Department/Ex Officio 2011

TREE WARDEN - Term: 3 years
Doug Gordon                                              2012

ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS – Term: 5 Years
Robert Schaeffner                                        2015
William R. Moriarty                                      2014
David Tubridy                                            2011
Alan Lipkind                                             2013
Barbara Shefftz                                          2012
     Alternates – Term: 1 year
     Paige Hintlian                                      2011
     Christopher T. Casey                                2011
     Bruce Krasker                                       2011
     Vacant                                              2011




                                106
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                         Vital Records
                     Births Recorded - 152

January    10                      July        13
February   11                      August      15
March      16                      September   9
April      14                      October     10
May        10                      November    13
June       18                      December    13

                    Marriages Recorded - 76

January    4                       July        12
February   3                       August      14
March      1                       September   8
April      2                       October     10
May        2                       November    8
June       11                      December    1

                     Deaths Recorded - 201

January    16                      July        20
February   18                      August      15
March      22                      September   11
April      25                      October     11
May        13                      November    12
June       17                      December    21




                             107
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                       ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY

The rapid pace of advances in technology continues to provide an important context
for the Abbot Library’s vision for service excellence, going forward. Recognizing
the growing popularity of iPads and other devices for accessing textual and visual
content, downloadable eBooks were made available to patrons, this year, in addition
to the downloadable audiobooks, introduced a few years ago. These options have
been enthusiastically welcomed by our user community: there were 50 downloads
of eBooks and 93 downloads of audiobooks, in the month of December, for
example, making Marblehead among the six most active libraries for downloadable
materials, out of the twenty-eight libraries in NOBLE (North of Boston Library
Exchange). We are grateful to the Second Century Fund for its support of this
service.

Another 2010 initiative, in recognition of the 24/7 standard for online availability,
set by the Internet, was the provision of remote online access, for patrons, to our
museum pass reservation system. Thanks to the generosity of the Friends of the
Abbot Library, we are able to offer discounted, and, sometimes, free, admission to
twelve local museums, including the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, the Museum of
Science, the New England Aquarium, the Boston Children’s Museum and the
Peabody Essex Museum. With our new system, patrons have the convenience of
reserving, or canceling, passes from their home computers, and receiving email
reminders to pick up their passes. We greatly appreciate the Shattuck Fund’s
support for the accommodation of this software on our website. Statistics show that
patron use of the service is increasing, as its benefits are discovered: for example,
patrons reserved 75 passes to the New England Aquarium, from July through
December; during the most recent two month-period of November and December,
43 Aquarium passes were reserved.

At the same time as the Library expands service to off-site users, we continue to
focus on maintaining and upgrading our brick-and-mortar facility. Although public
funding for our proposed plan to restore access to the Library’s enclosed garden,
from the adjacent interior spaces, was voted down in the special Proposition 2½
Override Election, we are proceeding with our objective to provide an attractive and
functional multi-purpose community space on our building’s lower level.

The repair of the masonry wall at the back of the garden and the improvements to
our drainage system, completed in 2009, served us well during several intense rain
events, including the flash flood in July. However, during heavy rain, water did




                                        108
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


penetrate a crack in the building’s storage area. We hope to repair this cracked wall
and improve drainage at the front of the building in FY2012.

Planning for the enhancement and reconfiguration of the Library’s space for
children and teens has progressed significantly during the past year. With the
guidance of the Library Director, Patricia Rogers, and Marblehead High School Art
Teacher, Catherine Landergan, students in the MHS Architecture Club concluded
the 2009-2010 academic year, by producing four three-dimensional models for the
youth space, reflecting the findings of the school-wide survey of student preferences
for the space, carried out by the Club, the previous year. These models were very
positively received by the Library’s Board of Trustees, who approved the
development of a unified design proposal. The Library is grateful for the generous
support of the Killam Fund in making this exciting project possible.

In 2010, we strengthened and expanded the Library’s many mutually beneficial
collaborations with local schools, businesses and non-profits, noted in last year’s
Report. One natural partnership with great potential is our collaboration with the
Marblehead Museum and Historical Society, to support the documentation and
study of local history. We look forward to a variety of joint projects. In March, the
Library and the Marblehead Conservancy worked together to present an exhibit, in
the Library’s Carten Gallery, of large format black-and-white photographs of the
Ipswich salt marshes, by Dorothy Kerper Monnelly, with the artist as keynote
speaker at the Conservancy’s Annual Meeting. In May, the High School presented
its second annual Senior Art Exhibit, in the Library’s Gallery and Meeting Room.
Not only does this venue provide an ideal opportunity for members of the
community to view the spectacular talent of local students, but the exhibit’s
planning, installation and promotion serve as the senior project for a team of
graduating art majors. Another special collaboration with the Schools was a project,
in June, focused on the graphic novel genre, for 7th graders at the Veterans Middle
School. This curriculum unit combined Art and English, in a hands-on exploration
of the graphic novel’s visual language, and culminated at the Library, in a panel
presentation, for the students, by four published graphic novelists. In December, the
Children’s Room was pleased to, once again, offer the Boston Ballet’s popular
“Nutcracker” Story Program.

The Library has presented a rich variety of programs, throughout the year, including
author talks, topics in current events, craft workshops, and speakers on energy
conservation, nautical subjects, history, finance, nature, health, and gardening. Our
large and small meeting rooms also are heavily used by outside groups.




                                        109
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


The total circulation of Library materials in FY 2010 was 240,518, reflecting a 10%
increase over the previous year’s total. This total increase resulted from similar
increases in both the circulation of children’s materials and of adult and young adult
materials. It is gratifying to see our collections receiving such a high level of usage.

Respectfully submitted,

Phil Sweeney, Chairperson
Patricia Rogers, Director




                                         110
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                 ABBOT LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Phillip W. Sweeney, Jr., Chair              Term expires 2013
Peggy Geist Blass, Vice-Chair               Term expires 2012
Maura K. Murnane, Secretary                 Term expires 2012
Jean Y. Howe                                Term expires 2011
Robin A. Michaud                            Term expires 2011
Phyllis B. Smith                            Term expires 2013


                          ABBOT LIBRARY STAFF
Patricia J. Rogers                              Director
Ann E. Connolly                                 Assistant Director
Christine Evans                                 Technical Services Librarian
Marcia Cannon                                   Children’s Librarian
Mary Farrell                                    Youth Librarian
Jonathan Randolph                               Adult Librarian
Mary Starrett                                   Senior Clerk
Elena Minayev                                   Para-Professional
Catherine Jamieson                              Library Coordinator/Circulation
Caroline Bock, Part-Time                        Program and Volunteer Coordinator
Linda Levy                                      Library Technician
Anne Thornton                                   Library Tech. Assistant
Janet Smith, Part-Time                          Library Tech. Assistant
Carole Brindamour, Part-Time                    Sr. Library Assistant
Ellen Goldstrom, Part-Time                      Sr. Library Assistant
Angelique Elser, Temp. Part-Time                Library Assistant
Joan Kessel, Temp. Part-Time                    Library Assistant
Virginia Symmes, Temp. Part-Time                Library Assistant
Christopher Tremblay, Temp. Part-Time           Library Assistant

                            CUSTODIANS
Richard Leahy                                   Custodian

                              PAGES
Marilyn Doran
Kira Goldman
Holly Hayes
Adam Power
Cassandra Sprague




                                111
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                         BOARD OF ASSESSORS


The Board of Assessors functions according to State mandated legislation. The
principal duty of the Board is to determine the “fair cash value” of all real and
personal property within the Town of Marblehead on an annual basis.

The assessing staff, under the supervision and review of the Board of Assessors
performs all duties. Our primary goal is to ensure fair and equitable assessments,
administer the statutory exemptions available to the elderly, blind, disabled, and
veterans. Additionally, the department is responsible for issuing motor vehicle
excise based upon the Registry of Motor Vehicles values provided to the assessors
office. The assessors also administer boat excise tax based upon the State formula
and after receiving the required information from the boat owner via the return of
form 2BE, which must be filed annually at the assessor’s office.

Under the quarterly tax billing procedure, the filing deadline for abatements is
February 1, (third quarter tax bill due date). The filing deadline for statutory
exemptions according to Massachusetts General Law is three months from the
mailing of the third quarter tax bill. Tax law and guidelines for exemptions are
constantly changing. We urge all taxpayers who may have questions regarding
abatements or exemption to contact the Assessor’s Office.

Nancy McCarthy was elected to her fourth consecutive 3 year term on the Board of
Assessors.

Assessments for the average single family dwelling decreased 4.7% to $653,500
and the median single family assessment decreased 5.6% to $483,000. The average
tax bill increased 1.7% to $6,672, and the median single family tax bill increased
0.6% to $4,931. The classification hearing held on November 17, 2010, resulted in
a single tax rate of $10.21 per thousand of value.

The Board of Assessor’s granted a total of $128,973.10 in statutory exemptions to
214 qualified seniors, veterans, and blind applicants.

The following is the breakdown of value by class and the respective tax levy as well
as the pertinent data for motor vehicle and boat excise tax.




                                       112
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


CLASS                                 VALUATION           TAX LEVY

Residential         94.6873%          $4,764,628,638      $48,646,858.39
Commercial          3.8221%           $192,325,493        $1,963,643.28
Industrial          0.3635%           $18,290,900         $186,750.09
Personal Property   1.1271%           $56,716,040         $579,070.77

TOTAL               100%              $5,031,961,071        $51,376,322.53


                                    EXCISE TAX

MOTOR VEHICLE              #BILLS            TAX ASSESSED

2010 EXCISE                20,131            $2,694,403

BOAT EXCISE                2000              $156,933




Respectfully Submitted,

Board of Assessor’s,                    Office Staff
John P. Kelley, Chair                   Leslie T. George, MAA, Senior Clerk II
Anne N. McCarthy, Secretary             Debra J. Long, Senior Clerk
Douglas E. Percy
Michael A. Tumulty, MAA, Asst. Assessor




                                       113
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                            BOARD OF HEALTH


The Marblehead Board of Health met in formal session on eighteen (18) occasions
including the annual Town Meeting. Meetings were properly and duly posted with
the Town Clerk. BOH Members and staff also attended numerous meetings
pertaining to finance, collaboration, communicable disease, bio-terrorism, tobacco
control, grant application, sanitation code updates, environmental issues, continuing
education, emergency preparedness, as well as other public health- related issues of
importance to the Town. The Board is continually adding to its responsibilities as
the need arises.

            MARBLEHEAD.ORG WEBSITE
     CODE RED EMERGENCY NOTIFICATION SYSTEM
News and notifications concerning public health, trash and recycling are posted in
timely fashion. Marblehead.Org is a very successful media tool that allows the
posting of links to sites relating to public health, emergency planning, solid waste,
and beach water quality. A subscription service on Marblehead.org allows people
to sign up for email alerts regarding solid waste, recycling, public health
emergencies, as well as other important Town information. The Code Red
Emergency Notification System was implemented this past fall for immediate
emergency related communications .

       REPORTED* COMMUNICABLE DISEASES – 2010
Amebiasis                                        1
Campylobacteriosis                               3
Giardiasis                                       1
Group A Streptococcus                            1
Group B Streptococcus                             3
Hepatitis C (chronic)                            11
Pertussis (and other Bordetella species)         2
Salmonellosis                                    7
Shiga toxin producing organism                   1
Streptococcus pneumonia                          2




                                           114
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


As with all communicable disease reports, an extensive follow-up investigation is
conducted to determine the source and possible cause of the illness. . All food-borne
illness (Campylobacter, Giardia, Hepatitis A, Salmonella) require public health
response.

                IMMUNIZATIONS GIVEN IN OFFICE

Pneumovax (PPSV)                            3
Hepatitis A                                 6
Hepatitis B                                 4
T dap                                       7
Td                                          4

Immunizations are offered at the Board of Health office by appointment only. Most
routine adult immunizations are available.

                   BLOOD PRESSURE SCREENING

BP monitoring is conducted Monday through Friday from 8:00 A.M. to 12:00 noon
at the Board of Health office by appointment only. Additionally the Public Health
Nurse is at the Marblehead Council Of Aging on most Thursdays of each month
between 11:00 AM-12:00 noon to conduct a blood pressure clinic.

NORTH SHORE-CAPE ANN EMERGENCY PREPARADNESS
                  COALITION

The North Shore-Cape Ann Emergency Preparedness Coalition continues to work to
prepare their communities to respond to public health threats and emergencies,
which include terrorism and outbreaks of infectious diseases as well as emergencies
caused by a force of nature. This coalition, established in 2004, is a sub-coalition
within Region 3 of the Massachusetts Department of Public Health regional Public
Emergency Preparedness Coalitions and it meets monthly. The coalition receives
funding from a grant provided by Center For Communicable Disease and is
mandated to attain certain standards in emergency preparedness. The North Shore-
Cape Ann Emergency Preparedness Coalition has established a website with
information for the public and links to other sites that can provide valuable
information to our residents. To date, the Board of Health has provided MDPH
with 24/7 contact information, submitted a Continuity of Operations Plan,
participated in numerous drills, trainings and conferences, has had key personnel




                                        115
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


trained in NIMS (National Incident Management System) and ICS (Incident Control
System), updated the All-Hazards Plan, and has submitted a template of our Special
Populations Plan. In 2008 the coalition began the process of a multi-year Training
and Exercise Plan. This plan will take us from learning about a specific scenario to
a full blown disaster drill incorporating all hazards plans and testing of the
established infrastructure.

The coalition is continuing the process of increasing our database of medical and
non-medical volunteers through our website and is offering training opportunities
for these volunteers. In the event of an infectious disease epidemic or pandemic, or
a natural disaster, volunteers will be greatly needed to assist in mass clinics, shelters
or wherever needed. Volunteers can register on-line and/or by calling the
Marblehead Board of Health. We urge residents to become volunteers. Please log
on to: www.nscalert.org or call the BOH at 781 631-0212 to register as a volunteer
and to learn more about our coalition.

                        2010 PUBLIC FLU CLINICS
October 1, 2010                                 134
October 14, 2010                                333
October 24, 2010                                112
November 3, 2010                                192
Home Visits                                      11
Employee Clinic                                 259
Office                                           40
Volunteer Meeting                                 7
Total Flu Shots given                           1088

                 2010 PUBLIC SCHOOL FLU CLINICS
Eveleth School                                  29
Bell School                                     41
Marblehead High School                          67
Village School                                  87
Total Flu Shots given                           224

The Board of Health administered a grand total of 1312 flu shots to residents.

The Marblehead BOH was allotted 2000 doses of flu vaccine for the 2010-2011 flu
season. This year the seasonal flu vaccine contained the pandemic strain of




                                          116
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


A/H1N1 as well as A/H3N2 and a B strain of flu virus. Although flu vaccine was
available at local pharmacies at the end of August, local BOH’s allotments from
MDPH arrive later and in smaller shipments. Our allotments began in early
September with only 100 doses and arrived throughout the fall with the bulk of our
vaccine (810 doses) arriving on October 27, 2010.

For the second year the Marblehead BOH partnered with the School Department to
administer flu vaccine to the students. This year we included elementary schools in
addition to the middle and high schools.

                      INSPECTIONAL SERVICES
All food service and retail food establishments are required, by the MDPH, to be
inspected bi-annually. Additionally, walk-through inspections (a less formal visual
procedure for those establishments the Board has received complaints about, that
are making physical changes, or that may have any type of problem that may arise
during the year) are conducted at the Board of Health’s discretion.

Beach samples are taken on a weekly basis from May through September. Test
results were consistently within beach testing standards set forth under 105 CMR
Sect. 445.000 throughout the summer for Devereux Beach, Crocker Park, Gas
House Beach, Grace Oliver’s Beach, Stramski Beach, Sunset Rd. Pier, And Village
Pier. Public and semipublic pools are monitored for mandatory on-site quality
control and proper management as required by MA 105 CMR 435.000 Minimum
Standards for Swimming Pools.

         ESTABLISHMENTS REGULARLY INSPECTED

Nursing Homes                                  2
Food Service Establishments                    60
Retail Food Service Establishments             27
Private Clubs                                  12
School Cafeterias                              4
Schools with Satellite Programs                7
Private Schools                                1
Carnivals W/3 Mobile Service Units             4
Ice Cream Trucks/Boat                          2
Mobile Food Service Trucks                     2
Hot Dog Push Carts                             1
Slush Push carts and Yogurt Push Carts         1




                                         117
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Year-round Swimming Pools                  1
Seasonal Swimming Pools                    5
Arts Festival Food Fair                    1
Bakeries                                   2
Caterers                                   7
One Day Permits                            8
Food Establishment Closing Inspection      12
Food Establishment Opening Inspection      9
New Business/Change of Ownership           5
Restaurant Inspections                     153
Re-Inspection Compliance                   59
Food Borne Illness Investigation           0
Fire Incidents Requiring Inspection        1
Day Camp Inspections                       13

INSPECTIONS REQUIRED
Water, Beach, Pool, Drain & Stream Samples       112
Asbestos Inquiry, Complaints/Removal Of            5

COMPLAINTS
Food and Retail Service Complaints         2
General Nuisance                           9
Air, Noise, and Odor Complaints            0
Housing Complaints                         10
Lead Paint Tests                           2
Lead Paint Follow-Up                       2
Exterior Sanding                           5
Radon Gas Inquiry                          0
Oil Spill Incidents                        2
Red Tide Notifications                     3
Court Subpoena                             3
Mold                                       6




                                     118
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


       NORTH SHORE TOBACCO CONTROL PROGRAM
In accordance with the North Shore Area Boards of Health Collaborative grant
requirements two compliance checks were conducted in 2010. The outcomes of
these checks were as follows:

Date             No. of Establishments Checked:               Compliance
                                                              Achieved

3-08-10          10 Checked with two violations               80% rate

8-30-10           4 Checked with no violations                100% rate

In addition to the compliance checks, the North Shore Tobacco Control Program
conducted two assessment / educational visits at each permitted establishment to
survey and evaluate the emerging number of Other Tobacco Products (OTP) and
crossover paraphernalia items being sold at local establishments. As a result of the
findings the Board was informed of the presence of OTP at local establishments.

COMMUNITY FACT SHEET

Marblehead, Massachusetts Data Updated: 5/26/10

Cigarette Smoking
An estimated 1,351 smokers live in Marblehead (8.7% of adults, age 18+). The
adult smoking rate is 46 percent lower in Marblehead than statewide (8.7% in
Marblehead compared to 16.1% statewide). The rate of smoking during pregnancy
in Marblehead is 85 percent lower than for the overall state of Massachusetts (1.1%
in Marblehead compared to 7.4% statewide).
MassHealth Tobacco Cessation Benefit
Since coverage of the tobacco cessation began in July 2006, 71 MassHealth
smokers from Marblehead have used the benefit - an estimated 53.4% of
MassHealth smokers living in Marblehead. Statewide, more than 75,000
MassHealth smokers (40.8%) have used the tobacco cessation benefit since July
2006.
QuitWorks
Health care providers referred 7 smokers living in Marblehead to the QuitWorks
program to help them quit smoking. In addition, 16 people from Marblehead called
the Massachusetts Smokers' Helpine to quit smoking (fiscal years 2004 to 2009).
Illegal Tobacco Sales to Minors




                                       119
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


The rate of illegal sales to minors (those under age 18) is 26 percent lower in
Marblehead (8.6%) compared to the state of Massachusetts (11.6%) based on data
from FY 2008.
Health Effects of Smoking
Mortality from lung cancer is 34 percent lower among males in Marblehead
compared to the state of Massachusetts. Mortality from lung cancer is not
significantly different among females in Marblehead compared to the state of
Massachusetts. The rate of hospitalizations for lung cancer is not significantly
different among females in Marblehead compared to the state of Massachusetts.
The rate of hospitalizations for lung cancer is 24 percent lower among males in
Marblehead compared to the state of Massachusetts.
Massachusetts Department of Public Health
The rate of hospitalizations for lung cancer is 24 percent lower among males in
Marblehead compared to the state of Massachusetts.




                                     120
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


           HAWC (HEALING ABUSE WORKING FOR CHANGE)
             REPORT OF TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD CY2010

HAWC officially changed its name on October 1, 2009, the first day of Domestic
Violence Awareness Month. For over 30 years, HAWC has been known as Help for
Abused Women and their Children. The new name and logo reflect the fact that
HAWC serves all individuals who are in abusive relationships: women, men and
transgender individuals; adults, adolescents and senior; gay, lesbian, bisexual and
heterosexual people; those with children and those without.

HAWC’s new name and logo capture the strength and resiliency of survivors as
they move out of fear and despair to hope and independence. It also captures
HAWC’s two-fold mission: to support the healing process individuals and families
go through as they work to free themselves from abuse and to change the social
norms and individual behaviors that perpetuate violence and oppression.

Community-wide knowledge about the tactics of perpetrators prepares everyone to
recognize the warning signs of abuse and how to get help. Domestic abuse takes
many forms but its goal is always the same; to control one’s partner. Tactics of
control include emotional, physical, economic, social and sexual abuse. Name-
calling, belittling, stalking, isolating one from family and friends, intimidation, and
threats of harm are all abusive whether they involve physical violence or not.

Founded in 1978, the mission of HAWC is to create social change by taking action
against personal and societal patterns of violence and oppression. HAWC provides
services and support to victims of domestic abuse residing in the 23 cities and towns
on the North Shore in order that they may make informed, independent decisions
about their futures.

Based in Salem with outreach offices in Gloucester, Ipswich, Beverly and Lynn,
HAWC provides the following free services: a 24-hour hotline, emergency shelter,
advocacy in courts, police departments and healthcare settings; trauma recovery
counseling for adults and children; support groups; economic stability services;
relocation and rental assistance; prevention education in schools and communities.

In 2009, HAWC provided the following services:

Hotline calls                                  3,733 callers
Counseling and support                         780 individuals
Parent/child trauma recovery                   123 families




                                         121
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Youth Violence Prevention           7,870 youth
Legal Advocacy                      2,146 individuals
Education and Training              3,939 residents and professionals

Housing and Homelessness Prevention:

Emergency Shelter                             54 adults and 46 children
One-year Rental Assistance                    11 adult and 15 children
Rental Down-payment/Utilities                 19 adults and 37 children

Marblehead residents served by HAWC in FY 2009

Counseling and Support Services
   • 23 callers were supported through our 24-hour hotline
   • 2 residents attended support groups
   • 15 were seen in individual counseling
   • 23 were supported in court for restraining orders
   • 2 families were seen in the Parent/Child Trauma Recovery program (mom
        and child are seen in counseling together after the perpetrator is out of the
        home)

Shelter and Housing
    • 1 resident was provided with emergency shelter
    • 1 resident received rental assistance to prevent homelessness

Youth Violence Prevention
   • 120 Marblehead teens were educated about healthy dating relationships,
       warning signs of abusive relationships, how to help friends and HAWC
       resources.

If you or someone you know is living in fear of their partner, please call HAWC’s
24-hour, toll-free hotline at 800-547-1649. Contact and understanding from a
person outside the abusive relationship is often the one most important lifeline for a
person getting free from abuse. The more you know the more you see. You can
become part of the solution.

                        MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES

Now in its 41th year, the Marblehead Counseling Center (MCC) has collaborated
with the Board of Health to provide the Town counseling, education and community




                                        122
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


service. These have afforded people the opportunity to work with highly trained
professionals on personal or community issues and concerns. Therapy is provided
to any resident or town worker regardless of his/her ability to pay a fee. Over and
above the $60,000 provided by the Health Department, MCC provided over $39,198
of free (unreimbursed) counseling services, up 29% from the previous year.

During fiscal year 2010, MCC provided direct therapy to over 550 different
individuals with 4,426 sessions offered for individual, couple, family and group
counseling. Therapists continued to help seniors in their homes who, because of
infirmities, could not make it to traditional services. Another 100 hours were spent
in outreach to teens and adults of our community in an effort to address their
specific problems. In addition, the Center ran socialization skills groups for all the
fourth graders at the Charter School.

Sometimes, our neighbors are hit hard by financial times and families struggle just
to survive. MCC has become the place that people can get connected with
resources that will help them, whether it is paying overdue bills, getting assistance
with housing, or establishing connections to medical and dental treatment.
Throughout the year over 40 families from our town have received these social
services from MCC’s social service aides.

The Counseling Center has also continued to encouraging the development of
healthy children in Marblehead. This year the Center has been working with a
small group to develop an effective teen center. Also, Marblehead Cares, a
coalition of community leaders and teens, was formed in April of 2009 to address
high use of alcohol and other drugs by adolescents in fiscal year 2010 it continued
to organize itself and design programming to respond to the problem.

The Marblehead Counseling Center has always had a very strong commitment to
improving the community of which it is a part. In fiscal year 2010, the organization
gave over 400 hours as a participant in many community committees and task
forces. Lastly, the Center has affiliated with the North Shore Community Mediation
to provide mediation services of all kinds in town. These include dispute resolution
for divorce, landlord-tenant, business-customer, neighbor-neighbor and others.

MCC will remain a vital part of our community and provide counseling, social
work, educational and community services for years to come.




                                        123
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Organic Pest Management

Copies of the Organic Pest Management Regulations are available in the Board of
Health office at the Mary Alley Municipal Building at 7 Widger Road.

The Board of Health encourages residents to become educated in the dangers of
pesticide use and to eliminate the use of toxic pesticides and herbicides on private
property for the safety and well-being of your own families, your pets, your
neighbors, and our environment.

                  SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
It is a constant challenge to address solid waste issues that face the Town. It is a
difficult task to address the environmental and increasing cost controls placed on the
town by state and federal agencies. It is time that we refocus and substantially
decrease the amount of waste we generate and increase the amount of recycling we
separate from that waste.
     • Marblehead generated 9371 tons of trash in 2010, an increase of 236 tons
          from 2009.
     • Marblehead recycled a total of 2528 tons of paper, commingled material,
          cardboard, metal, and Swap Shed material out of the waste stream realizing
          diversion savings of $243,762.40 .
     • 3,450 gallons of waste oil was collected for processing. This includes
          Town Garages.
     • Approximately 1,200 Televisions and 600 Computer Monitors were
          recycled.
     • Two Household Hazardous Waste (HHW) Days were conducted jointly
          with the Town of Swampscott and materials were collected from over 300
          households.
     • Document Shredding /Recycling was held at every other HHW Day event.


                       RECYCLING COMMITTEE
The Recycling Committee is a valuable volunteer resource for the Town. The
weekly “Recycling Tips” article in the Reporter takes time and commitment and is
greatly appreciated and well read. Their staffing of a booth at the Farmers Market
selling compost and recycling bins is to be commended. The Committee has taken a
very keen interest in current and future trends and local adherence to recycling in
Marblehead. The Board looks forward to utilizing this group of dedicated residents




                                        124
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


as we address the solid waste and recycling challenges and opportunities facing the
Town.

          COMPOSTING AND YARD WASTE DISPOSAL

    2010 organic matter, vegetation, brush, wood waste generation and processing
    figures:
         • Composted material: 18,675 cubic yards = 3,112.5 tons.
         • Spring/summer leaves & grass: 12,445 cubic yards = 2,074 tons.
         • Woodchips (Town Tree Department): 5,400 cubic yards = 900 tons.
         • Brush: 8,600 cubic yards = 1,433 tons.

                   OLD LANDFILL REMEDIATION
                   NEW SOLID WASTE FACILITY
A comprehensive description of the design and construction phases along with
timely opportunities was presented to the annual town meeting in May 2007. A
subsequent capital exclusion override for $1,010,000 was voted positively by the
Town. Additional environmental testing has been requested by the MA DEP for
some abutting properties. The need to address infrastructure relocation with other
Town Departments and Commissions is ongoing. Basic conceptual design issues
and related costs are being reviewed by the Solid Waste Facility Committee
appointed by the Board of Health in the fall of 2010 and are still being addressed at
the present time. The Board of Health expects to address the annual 2011 Town
Meeting to present capping and construction plans for the project.

                                  SWAP SHED
The Swap Shed at the Transfer Station continues to be very popular and more
importantly a very useful means of re-using many different types of household
materials and appliances. The hearty volunteers that operate, organize, and perform
crowd control every Saturday are to be commended. The Board wishes to recognize
these volunteers and express their appreciation for their efforts to reduce solid waste
tonnage.

This is my last annual Town Report as Director of this Department, I have always
been very appreciative of the staff in both the Public Health and Waste Division
under the jurisdiction of the Board of Health, they are the people that are here
working in the rain, bitter cold, snow, heat, handling the complaints, working extra




                                         125
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


unpaid hours to provide the finest municipal service they can. It is an honor and a
privilege to serve the Town of Marblehead and the numerous elected Board of
Health Members who have appointed me through the years.

In closing, the Board of Health commends its Office, Transfer Station staff for their
adaptability to constant change, dedication, and devotion to their positions and the
Town. The Board wishes to thank other Town Departments for assistance and
cooperation in the form of manpower, equipment, and other resources. Bi-monthly
administrative staff meetings with the Town Administrator are important and
appreciated from a support and cooperative effort standpoint. The Board also
thanks Town Planner Rebecca Curran, as she has assisted the Health Department in
applying for and administering worthwhile grants of money, equipment, technical
assistance, and Chapter 30B Procurement issues. The Board of Health and the
Town are fortunate to have a willing and able group of volunteers assisting in all
aspects of our operation. The Board of Health thanks all those volunteers. Finally,
the Board owes gratitude to the citizen’s of Marblehead for their cooperation in
helping to maintain a healthy Community.

HEALTH OFFICE STAFF
Rochelle Bartlett-Ayer, RN, Public Health Nurse
Roberta Cody, Health Inspector
Andrea Flaxer, Senior Clerk

TRANSFER STATION STAFF
Peter Haskell, Leader Heavy Equipment Operator
Michael Louizos, Heavy Equipment Operator
Chris Monahan, Heavy Equipment Operator
Annette Louizos, Part-time Clerk
Kay Monahan, Special Clerk
Karen Patch, Part-time Clerk

Respectfully Submitted,
Helaine R. Hazlett, B.S., Chairman
Todd Belfbecker, D.M.D.
Michelle Gottlieb, M.E.M.

Wayne O. Attridge
Director of Public Health




                                        126
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


BUILDING COMMISSIONER & INSPECTIONAL SERVICES


The Inspectional Services Department ensures public safety, health and welfare by
regulating construction through Federal, State and Local Codes and By-Laws.

A total of 727 Building permits were issued in 2010 including those for the new
Tedesco Country Club, and 15 new single family dwellings, of which 6 involved the
demolition of an existing dwelling. Based on an estimated cost of construction of
$39,958,012 this activity produced fees of $582,256 for the General Fund.
Renovation work on the Village School was completed.

Electrical, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting permits generated an additional $69,123 in
inspectional fees.

The Department also issued 192 Roofing permits, 19 Sign permits and 7 Stove
permits, which produced an additional $6720 in fees.

The Building Department, in conjunction with the Fire Prevention Office, conducts
annual inspections of public and private schools, churches and temples, day care
centers, food service establishments, nursing homes, and private clubs.

We would like to express appreciation to John Albright for his fine service to the
department and wish him all the best in his future endeavors. We welcome Dan
Williams to our staff in his place.


Estimated Cost of Construction activity for the past decade in millions of dollars
 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
 22.6 24.2 23.4 39.2 43.4 33.3 38.1 25.1                            46.2 40.0




                                         127
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Respectfully submitted;

Robert S. Ives, Jr., Building Commissioner
Chris G. Butler, Local Inspector
Dan Williams, Local Inspector
Ronald J. Marks, Wire Inspector
Eric F. S. Chisholm, Assistant Wire Inspector
Domingos Furtado, Plumbing & Gas Inspector
Peter McCarriston, Assistant Plumbing & Gas Inspector
Mary A. Allain, Special Clerk
Ellen Vaughn, Data Entry Clerk
Ed Medeiros, Public Buildings
Steve Ware, Public Buildings




                                      128
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


 CABLE TELEVISION OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE REPORT


In 2010 the Cable Television Oversight Committee negotiated a ten-year license
with Comcast, Inc. The negotiations were based upon ascertainment studies
conducted by the committee, a review of other communities’ licenses and reference
to the existing Comcast license.

Amongst the provisions of the new license was the establishment of capital funding
for studio upgrades and on-going funding for Marblehead Community Access
Corporation. The license was unanimously adopted by the Cable Television
Oversight Committee and went to the Selectmen for approval. The Selectmen
approved the license, which went into effect June 2010.

This completed the CTOC’s goal of establishing two competing cable operations in
the town, and setting up the operation of the studio and future access channel
operations in the hands of a non-profit corporation.

Respectfully submitted,

Paul Rabin, Chairman
Cable Oversight Committee, Chair




                                      129
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                     CEMETERY DEPARTMENT


The Marblehead Cemetery Department respectfully submits our Annual Report for
the Calendar year ending December 31, 2010.

The Board of Commissioners has three members who are elected to three-year,
staggered terms. The Commission sets policy, establishes regulations and oversees
the cemetery budget.     The Cemetery Department is administered by a
Superintendent appointed by the Commissioners, who has jurisdiction over all
Town Cemeteries.

The Cemetery Department is responsible for the complete maintenance of
Waterside Cemetery, as well as, Harbor View Cemetery. The Recreation and Parks
Department is responsible for the cutting and trimming of the grass at Old Burial
Hill, Harris Street, and Green Street Cemeteries. The Cemetery Department takes
care of any other maintenance that is needed at these historic cemeteries.

For the fiscal year 2010 the sum of $247,659.75 was expended on salaries and
wages. The sum of $20,658.75 was spent on maintenance expenses. To defray the
cost of these expenditures the sum of $57,000.00 came from the Perpetual Care
Fund.

The Cemetery Department turned over to the Town Treasurer for the General Fund
the sum of $ 66,405.00 received from charges and fees as follows in fiscal 2010:

      Grave Fees                                              $ 53,650.00
      Chapel Fees                                                  900.00
      Foundation and Inscriptions Fees                          11,855.00
      Annual Care Receipts                                           0.00
      Misc. & Vault Fees                                             0.00
                                                              $ 66,405.00


This Department keeps abreast with a survey of Commonwealth Communities and
Private Cemeteries as to the fees that are charged and then makes adjustments in
fees accordingly.




                                      130
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


The sum of $20,500.00 was received from the sale of lots and the sum of
$20,600.00 was received from bequests to the Perpetual Care Fund. The sum of
$35.00 was received from bequests to the Eternal Flame Fund.

There was one Gravestone Rubbing Permits issued this year. These permits cost
$10.00 and are used only at the Old Burial Hill. The total income receipts for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 2010 was $ 107,540.00.

The total number of interments for the Calendar year was 124 of which 71 were
cremations.

The Cemetery Department would like to thank the Gerry #5 for the paying of the
eternal flame during the summer months, also the VFW for helping keep the pool
up and running, and Eustis & Cornell Funeral Home for the wreath hanging at the
Bell Tower during the Holidays. We would also like to thank Liz Grader for her
volunteer work. Many thanks go to the Highway, Park & Recreation, Water &
Sewer, Tree and Light Departments for their help in getting the cemeteries ready for
Memorial Day and during the year. Thank you also to the Tree Department for the
planting of new trees at Waterside Cemetery.

During the year 2010, the Department employed Frank James as mechanic, Brian
Ware as heavy equipment operator, William Stanton and Johann Gebhard as
laborers, and Catherine Kobialka as office manager. Our Cemetery Board of
Commissioners consisted of, Richard F. Coletti as Chairman, David M. Cashman as
clerk, and Rose A. McCarthy.

Respectfully submitted
William H. James
Superintendent




                                       131
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                   CONSERVATION COMMISSION


This report is for Calendar Year 2010. The purpose of the Marblehead Conservation
Commission is twofold. First, to implement the safeguards specified in the state
Wetlands Protection Act, the state Stormwater Management Policy and the
Marblehead Wetlands Protection Bylaw in order to help preserve and protect the
wetlands and water resources in our Town. Second, to maintain and protect the
conservation lands held in trust for all residents of our Town. Of the six
communities adjacent to Salem Sound, Marblehead and Salem have the highest
density of population, with corresponding pressures on our open space and water
resources. The quality of life in Marblehead and its attractiveness is in part
dependent on these resources and we urge all Marblehead residents to join in our
efforts to preserve and protect them.

The Commission held regular meetings and public hearings throughout the year
2010. We continued to assist residents in their construction projects while guiding
them in their endeavors to protect the wetland resources potentially affected by their
construction. A major ongoing effort of the Commission is the management and
mitigation of pollution caused by storm water runoff. This polluting runoff comes
from streets, parking lots, driveways and lawns. Lawn chemicals, oil and coolant
leaks from vehicles, animal waste, paints disposed of in catch basins (storms drains
in our streets) - all these pollutants/nutrients eventually end up in our streams and
ocean. The effort to mitigate this pollution will require a long term change in the
thinking and actions on the part of the general public and in our approach to public
infrastructure. The Marblehead Water & Sewer Department already follows the
guidelines established by the state to mitigate stormwater pollution runoff into our
ocean waters.

The Commission reminds everyone that our ponds are all in the process of filling in
with vegetation. This is a natural process, especially with shallow ponds, and is
caused or accelerated, in part, by the inflow of chemicals and fertilizers from
abutting lawns and storm water runoff. If you live directly on one of our ponds,
please do not fertilize your lawn without guidance from the Commission.

Marblehead has exhausted (read developed) more than 95% of its buildable land.
With all the roofs, driveways, streets, parking areas and other impervious surfaces
we have built ourselves into one huge catch basin. This has exacerbated our drain
problems. All those little open fields, land depressions and pocket wetlands where




                                        132
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


storm water used to be able to collect and gently seep into the ground are, for the
most part, gone.

Again this year, we wish to express our gratitude to the Marblehead Conservancy
for its continuing efforts to restore walking paths in our conservation lands and for
its ongoing program to remove invasive plant species, which are strangling native
vegetation in the conservation lands. Since your Conservation Commission has no
budget or staff for managing the conservation lands, the ongoing efforts of the
Conservancy to preserve and protect these very valuable resources are crucial to the
health of these areas.

Please visit us on the Town web site, www.marblehead.org, to find information on
our meeting schedules, help with filing permit applications and accessing the
minutes of our meetings.

Respectfully submitted,
Marblehead Conservation Commission

Walter Haug, Chairman
Deborah Payson, Member
Frederick Sullivan, Member
Donald Tritschler, Member
Craig A. Smith, Member
Brian LeClair, Member
Ken Fisher, Member




                                        133
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                          COUNCIL ON AGING


The Council on Aging respectfully submits its annual report for the year ending
December 31, 2010.

The COA was awarded a grant from The Shattuck Fund to develop a bocce court in
the rear of the Community Center property. We were also awarded a Local Cultural
Council grant to fund an Irish music program in celebration of St. Patrick’s Day at
the senior center.

COA outreach worker Audrey Connolly retired and Teri Allen McDonough was
hired as the new Outreach Worker.

The Council on Aging provided programs and services to 3,185 seniors (age 60 or
more) and 2,251 non-seniors (including family members and caregivers) during the
past year. 2010 COA programs and services designed to keep elders independent,
remain healthy and stay connected with the community included:

Health/Wellness Screenings and Services: 701 health screenings and weekly
wellness clinics by the Public Health Nurse and the VNA were provided. The
Board of Health held two flu clinics at the Center. The evidence based program
“My Life, My Health” was held and weekly sessions of chair massage were
available at the center.

Transportation: 7835 rides were provided to 191 senior citizens to medical
appointments, the senior center, shopping, nursing home visits, volunteer positions
and on errands. Another 33 rides were provided to 5 individuals under the age of 60
and disabled.

Nutrition: 16,547 home delivered meals were provided to 227 home bound
individuals and 2,196 meals were provided to 265 seniors at the center. Home
bound individuals were treated to “The Lazy, Hazy Days of Summer” by North
Shore Elder Services which included a lobster roll lunch and ice cream sundaes
delivered by volunteers. Once again, the Gerry #5 provided a fish lunch at the
annual picnic.

Education: 291 individuals took advantage of the many educational offerings at
the senior center including presentations on long term care insurance, estate




                                       134
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


planning, osteoporosis, fall prevention, new Health Care Law, Revere Beach,
Project Lifesaver and health plan options. 29 seniors received computer training.

Fitness and Exercise: 641 older adults participated in fitness and exercise classes
that included weight training, yoga, physical therapy, osteo prevention, stretching,
strength & stretch, tai chi, better balance, move & groove and Zumba. The Fitness
Center is also available with trained staff to assist those making use of the exercise
equipment.

Recreation and Arts/Crafts Activities: 998 sessions of bridge, Mah Jongg,
cribbage, bingo, oil painting, golf, drawing, knitting, quilting, crafts, line dance,
country line dance, tap dance, book discussion, watercolor painting, attracted
approximately 8,000 individuals.

Travel Opportunities: The COA sponsored day and overnight trips for 126
seniors. Destinations included the California, the Rose Parade, Radio City
Rockettes, Atlantic City, Boston Flower Show, Red Sox at Toronto and Foxwoods.

Social Events: Social events included the annual picnic at the Gerry #5 and
monthly luncheons with entertainment to celebrate the holidays and seasons.
Special events were held for Senior Center Month. The Men’s Group continues to
grow and speakers this year included BBC broadcaster Rhod Sharpe, Police Chief
Picariello and MHS Coach Rudloff. The VNA Care Network and Hospice
underwrote the series again for the year.

Safety: The COA continues to sponsor, along with the Essex County Sheriff’s Dept
and the Marblehead Police Dept, the Marblehead TRIAD, which meets monthly at
the center. The group sponsored the Yellow Dot Program, the File of Life program,
and weekly shredding sessions to avoid identity theft.

Health Insurance Counseling: The COA had one trained SHINE (Serving the
Health Insurance Needs of Elders) counselor to assist senior citizens with questions
and concerns about their health insurance and prescription coverage. 83 seniors
were served.

Property Tax Work off Program: Administered by the COA, this program
assisted 29 seniors who volunteered their services to the town in exchange for up to
$750 credit on their real estate tax bills.




                                        135
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Outreach: Outreach staff contacted 88 individuals to acquaint them with COA
programs and services. Referrals of seniors who may need assistance were received
from the police and fire departments and other agencies. More than 3,900 referrals
were made to other agencies such as North Shore Elder Services, the Marblehead
Counseling Center and the fuel assistance program. Farmers Market coupons were
distributed to 60 individuals.

Information and Referral: More than 2,900 seniors and 2,200 non-seniors
contacted the COA for information and more than 3,900 referrals were made to
other agencies. 3,000 copies of the monthly newsletter, The Old Marblehead Cod,
were distributed monthly. The COA also maintains website pages on the town
website.
Volunteer Opportunities: 106 volunteers provided 4,824 hours of service to the
COA in a variety of roles including board members, lunch servers, activity leaders,
and instructors. The Men’s Group Committee was presented with the COA
Volunteer of the Year award for their work in organizing and coordinating the
Men’s Group functions.

Intergenerational Events: Thirty five seniors were assisted with snow shoveling
by students from the Marblehead Veterans Middle School and performances by
several school choruses were held.

Employment Assistance: The COA, with the help of Keystone Assoc., Clark
Willmott and five HR volunteers provided three 4-week sessions of “Wisdom
Works”. 19 individuals participated in the program.

The Town of Marblehead appropriated $187,288 for FY 10 for the COA. In
addition, the COA was awarded a Title IIIC federal grant of $21,953 for its nutrition
programs and a Title IIIB federal grant of $6,079 for its outreach program by North
Shore Elder Services for the period 10/1/10-9/30/11. The Marblehead COA was
awarded a state Formula Grant for FY 10 in the amount of $28,595. The COA also
receives a monthly donation from the Marblehead Female Humane Society to fund
the part-time use of the second van and its driver for the transportation program.
The COA depends on the generous donations of Friends of the COA and some
individual donations for additional funding.




                                        136
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


The staff of the Council on Aging is to be commended for their commitment to
serving the senior residents of Marblehead:
         Director                           Patricia C. Roberts
         Activities Coordinator             Janice Salisbury Beal
         Senior Day Center Coordinator      Jan DePaolo
         Outreach Worker                    Teri Allen McDonough
         Site Manager                       Thais Asaiante
         Van Chauffeurs                     Patricia Medeiros, Bob Hinch
         MOW Drivers                        Diane LeBoeuf, Virginia Power
                                            Jeanne Ventura
         Clerk                              Caryle Wildfield
         Maintenance                        John Belanger

Respectfully submitted,

Jeanne Louizos, Chairperson     Ed Bell       Catherine Brown
John Crowley                    Dana Denault  Joe Dever
Lisa Hooper                     Freda Maguire Liz Michaud




                                   137
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS


The Marblehead Department of Public Works is pleased to submit its’ report for the
calendar year 2010.

Over the past year our employees have been very busy performing the necessary
maintenance to keep our public ways clean, clear and safe. Some of the services
provided include: pothole repair and patching, trench repair, sidewalk maintenance
and rebuilding, traffic lining, street sign installation and repair, street sweeping, and
of course snow removal.

As in the past, a major part of the Department’s funding comes from the State by
way of Chapter 90 funds. This money is used primarily for reconstruction and
repaving of our roads. This year our Chapter 90 funds went to pave Franklin St.;
Selman St.; Gingerbread Hill; Ramsdell Rd.; Abbot St.; Reed St.; Mt. Vernon;
Jefferson St.; Anderson St.; Heritage Way; Londonderry Rd.; Leggs Hill Rd.;
Nahant St.; and Washington St., Ocean Ave., and Harbor Ave., IN PART.

We recognize the inconvenience caused by some of this work and are grateful to the
residents for their tolerance during these activities.

As always, the DPW wishes to thank you the customer, for your cooperation and
understanding as we work to make improvements to the public ways. .

This past winter was about average with somewhere close to 60” of snowfall. I
wish to thank the Board of Selectmen for their support and compliment all the
employees of the DPW for their efforts in making this another successful year.

As always, the DPW wishes to "Thank” all the other town employees who provide
necessary assistance in accomplishing all for the various tasks at hand.


Respectfully submitted
David Donahue
Director of Public Works

Arthur Graves                                   Assistant Director
Susan Hogan                                     Senior Clerk
Robert Nauss                                    Mechanic




                                          138
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


William Montgomery                   Mechanic
Christopher Phillips                 Mechanic
Steven Magrane                       Working Foreman
Robert Mace                          Working Foreman
Frank Monahan, Jr.                   Working Foreman
James DeCoste                        Heavy Equipment Operator
Robert Delisle, Jr.                  Heavy Equipment Operator
Jose’ Fagundes                       Heavy Equipment Operator
Dave Perry                           Heavy Equipment Operator
Robert Pollard                       Heavy Equipment Operator
Robert Titus                         Heavy Equipment Operator




                               139
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                       ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT

During 2010, the Engineering Department provided engineering and surveying services
to several town boards, commissions and departments. Street line research and
determinations were provided as requested and plans were prepared. Plans and
descriptions were provided relative to new parking regulations. Working closely with the
Assessor’s office, the Engineering Department provided assistance in keeping property
ownership records up to date.

Throughout 2010, the Engineering Department provided administrative, clerical, record
keeping and budgetary support to the Conservation Commission, Planning Board and
Zoning Board of Appeals. Maps are prepared from the Town’s GIS for projects
submitted to these Boards to identify the abutters and any other parties necessary to
receive notice of public hearings. Legal advertisements were prepared and submitted to
local newspapers for all projects requiring a public hearing. Numerous plans were
reviewed throughout the year for projects submitted to these Boards and the Conservation
Commission. Site inspections were routinely done to verify compliance with permits
issued and to address any violations noted or reported to the department.

In 2010 work began on a few noteworthy projects. In August, after several months of
permitting and review, demolition of the WESX building and radio tower at 27 Naugus
Avenue allowed for the construction of a residential subdivision consisting of seven new
single family houses fronting on Intervale Road, Naugus Avenue and a new street named
Mound Road. In December, after several years of permitting and review, cleanup work
finally began at the former Chadwick Lead Mill site on Lafayette Street at the Forest
River. Cleanup work will continue on this site for about a year. Over the course of the
year, several new house construction projects were reviewed as well.

2010 brought another personnel change to the Engineering Department. In April, Andrea
Flaxer left the Engineering Department after 3 years of service, to take a full time position
with the Health Department. We thank Andrea for her service to the Department and
wish her well in her new position working with Wayne Attridge at the other end of the
building.

In May we hired Colleen King, a long time Marblehead resident and graduate of
Marblehead High School to fill the vacant position. Colleen holds a BS degree in
Business Management from Northeastern University and came to us with several years of
professional office experience. She needed little time to acclimate to the workings of the




                                           140
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Department. Colleen’s knowledge and interest in Marblehead, and her desire to help her
fellow residents, make her a valuable asset to this Department.

The department continues a long tradition of storing and providing copies of historic
survey and engineering field notes, records and plans from the Map Room at the Mary
Alley Building. These historically important records and plans are routinely needed by
engineers, land surveyors, and attorneys in the course of their work. Throughout the year,
department personnel answer hundreds of inquiries from residents and assist them with
research, and provide copies from town files.

Engineering Department personnel:
        William C. Lanphear, Engineering and Conservation Administrator
        Colleen M. King, Special Clerk

Respectfully submitted,

William C. Lanphear, PLS
Engineering and Conservation Administrator




                                          141
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                          FINANCIAL SERVICES


The Financial Services Department is responsible for the Town’s financial
functions, including accounting, payroll, revenue collection, budgeting, capital
financing and retirement management. The Financial Services Department is
overseen by the Town's Finance Director. The Finance Director also serves as the
Town Accountant and is responsible for the management of Information
Technology for the Town.

Within Financial Services, the Accounting office is responsible for the audit and
approval of all Town expenditures and preparation of various accounting and
financial reports required by the State’s Department of Revenue. The Revenue
office is responsible for distribution of payroll and vendor checks and collection of
taxes and fees owed to the Town. Both the Treasurer and the Collector functions
are performed by this office. The Payroll Office performs all payroll functions and
administers various employee fringe benefits, including health insurance, flexible
spending plans, 457 deferred compensation plans, and life insurance.

The department publishes a separate Comprehensive Annual Financial Report
(CAFR) for the Town on a fiscal year basis (July 1 to June 30) each year. A Copy
of the latest CAFR is available by contacting the Finance Director’s Office.

Among the more important accomplishments of the Financial Services department
during 2010 were:

    •    Received for the sixth consecutive year the Certificate of Achievement for
         Excellence in Financial Reporting from the Government Finance Officers
         Association. This award is only given to government units whose
         comprehensive annual financial reports (CAFRs) achieve the highest
         standards in government accounting and financial reporting. Marblehead
         was one of only 19 Massachusetts communities to receive this award last
         year.

    •    Completed the annual open enrollment process in May for employee and
         retiree health insurance. The Town purchases health plans through the
         Massachusetts Interlocal Insurance Association (MIIA).

    •    Continued the management of the town’s Wellness program for employees
         covered by the various Blue Cross Blue Shield plan options offered by the




                                        142
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


        Town. This program offered several voluntary courses related to fitness,
        nutrition, stress management, etc. In 2010, the Town’s Wellness Program
        was recognized by the MIIA Health Benefits Trust as their best Wellness
        Program for a large account.

    •   Managed the Town’s Official Website (www.marblehead.org). This
        work includes managing the content of the website to ensure completeness
        and accuracy, implementation of new website features, and assisting other
        town departments with their website content. In 2010, the town began
        posting all meeting agendas for all town boards and committees on the
        website. The independent group Common Cause recognized the Town’s
        website by awarding its e-Government Award with distinction for
        transparency in 2010.

    •   Managed the on-line payment option available for taxpayers to use in the
        payment of their Real Estate and Personal Property taxes, Motor Vehicle
        and Boat Excise taxes as well as Water and Sewer bills.

    •   Completed a capital financing on behalf of the Town involving the
        issuance of both long-term bonds and short-term notes to finance various
        capital projects undertaken by the Town. In the context of this financing
        the Town’s AAA bond rating was affirmed by the independent rating
        agency Standard & Poor’s (S&P). Marblehead is one of only 23
        Massachusetts communities to receive S&P’s highest municipal rating.

    •   Continued the process of submitting to the Massachusetts School Building
        Authority for the reimbursement owed in connection with eligible school
        building project expenditures.

    •   Submitted all required Department of Revenue reports on schedule.



Financial Services Department Staff

John J. McGinn           Finance Director/Town Accountant
Robert Ross              Assistant Director – Accounting
Patricia Kelly Murray    Treasurer/Tax Collector
Barbara Kiernan          Payroll Administrator
Connie Ross              Assistant Revenue Officer




                                      143
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Dianne Rodgers         Accounting & Website Assistant
Dmitriy Vaydman        Accounting Assistant
Matthew Barrett        Retirement Administrator
Kathy Harvey           Administrative Clerk – Payroll Office
Deb Christensen        Senior Clerk – Revenue Office
Michael Milczarek      Senior Clerk – Revenue Office




                                   144
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                            FIRE DEPARTMENT

To the Honorable Board of Selectmen and Citizens of Marblehead: It is with great
pride in this Department that I submit my 2010 Annual Report. Many of the
accomplishments highlighted in this report are a direct result of the commitment to
excellence by department members.

INTRODUCTION:
The Marblehead Fire Department is committed to protecting the people, property,
and environment within our community. We shall always be responsive to the
needs of our citizens by providing rapid, professional, humanitarian services
essential to the health, safety, and well being of the community. We will
accomplish our mission through fire prevention, fire awareness education, fire
suppression, emergency medical services and other related emergency and non-
emergency activities. We will actively participate in our community, serve as role
models, and strive to effectively and efficiently utilize all of the necessary resources
at our command to provide a service deemed excellent by our citizens.

EMERGENCY & EMS RESPONSE:
The call volume for emergency services continues to increase. In 2010 The
Marblehead Fire Department responded to 2540 calls for services resulting in a 6%
increase from last year. The majority of these calls were medical emergencies. The
Fire Department responds to an average of 7 calls for services each day.

The Marblehead Fire Department provides first response for Basic Life Support
services to the community, and we responded to 1210 calls for emergency medical
assistance in 2010. The Department currently has 38 EMT-Basics and 1 EMT-
Paramedic. Our two primary engines are certified as Class 5 Non Transporting
Basic Life Support Ambulances. Members maintain their skills through regularly
scheduled training conducted by the Department’s Training Officer in conjunction
with Atlantic Ambulance Company. All of our apparatus and staff vehicles are
equipped with state-of-the-art cardiac defibrillators as well.

As always, the Department continues to evaluate new procedures, equipment and
training to improve patient care and service delivery to our customers. As I look
onto 2011, there are changes in OEMS statewide treatment protocols set to begin
January 1st. These guidelines are for the treatment we provide during a medical
emergency. They will allow us to do more for our patients in their time of need.




                                         145
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


PERSONNEL:
The following personnel changes were made in 2010. Firefighter John Tobey left
the department for a unique career opportunity at Yellowstone National Park.
Matthew Christensen, Jeffrey Martin and Matthew Lunt were appointed as
Permanent Full-Time Firefighters. Frank Monahan was promoted to Provisional
Lieutenant. Charles Cerrutti was promoted to Provisional Captain. I extend my
congratulations to each of these department members on their appointments and
promotions.

I would like to extend a long and healthy retirement to Charles (Butch) Morgan.
Butch was appointed to the Fire Department on April 6, 1981 and retired on July 2,
2010. He was assigned to the Franklin Street station for the majority of his career,
and was a great mentor to many of the recruit firefighters. Butch is to be
commended for his twenty-nine years of dedicated service to the Department and
the Town.

It is with the deepest sorrow and regret that we note the passing of retired
Firefighter James I. Carey (April 4, 2010) and retired Captain William E. Withum
(February 8, 2010). We are very grateful for their many years of service to the
Department and the Town of Marblehead, and they will be truly missed by all.

Firefighter Matthew Tina was called upon once again to serve his country in support
of Operation Enduring Freedom. Firefighter Tina was deployed to Afghanistan last
August. We are all very proud of Matthew, and pray for his safe return.

I would like to extend my sincere thanks to the following: My Administrative
Assistant, Mary Levine, for her commitment and hard work throughout the year.
Our Department Chaplin, The Rev. Dr. Dennis B. Calhoun who is always there to
lend spiritual as well as moral support to the Department and Community anytime
of the day or night.

A special thanks to the Town’s Wire/Fire Alarm Inspectors, Ron Marks and Eric
Chisholm. They do an incredible job maintaining the Town’s fire alarm system. I
also want to express my gratitude for taking time out of their busy schedule to assist
the Fire department with the installation of the new ceiling fans at Headquarters and
the new overhead door and generator at the Franklin Street Station.

GRANTS:
In 2010, the Marblehead Fire Department was once again successful in securing a
grant from the Assistance to Firefighting Grants program. I want to personally




                                        146
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


thank and congratulate Lieutenant Gregg McLaughlin for all his hard work in
securing this $10,000.00 AFG for the Department and the Town of Marblehead.
The grant was used to purchase four new front line defibrillators. These new
defibrillators replaced our outdated units.

The Student Awareness of Fire Safety (SAFE) grant was also awarded to the
Marblehead Fire Department in the amount of $4,000.00 during fiscal year 2010. I
would like to thank Brendan Sheehan, The Department’s (S.A.F.E.) Coordinator,
and his staff for their steadfast commitment to educating the towns’ youth and
making them more aware of the dangers of fire.

The Northeast Homeland Security Regional Advisory Council (NERAC) approved
an Equipment Distribution Project in 2010, under the Emergency Management
discipline. NERAC announce that Marblehead was eligible to select up to
$16,000.00 of emergency response equipment and supplies from the NERAC
Equipment Distribution Project. This funding was made possible through the
NERAC allocation under FFY07 Homeland Security Funding. We took delivery of
a portable lighting tower, submersible flood pumps, cots, emergency blankets,
sandbags, barricades and first aid jump kits. We are currently applying for grants
and will continue to apply for grants to help support the department and the town.

STATIONS & FACILITIES:
In August of 2010, the exterior of the Central Headquarters and the Franklin Street
Station were painted. The color of the Franklin Street Station was changed to a
traditional firehouse red. We also had a new and more energy efficient overhead
door installed at the Franklin Street Station. I want to thank Lieutenant Tom Rice
for working with the Historic Commission in an effort to replace the old overhead
door with one that would fit in with the time period of the building.

There have been significant upgrades done to the Franklin Street Station and Central
Headquarters. Personnel from this Department have put forth a cooperative effort
to paint, build and upgrade several areas of the stations. The projects could not
have been completed without their hard work. These members certainly went above
and beyond the call of duty.

COMMUNITY PROJECTS:
We continue to benefit from the Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-Off Program
sponsored by the Council on Aging. This program has been extremely valuable to
this Department and the work performed by these volunteers is truly appreciated.




                                       147
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Captain Porter has remained an active participant in the TRIAD Committee. The
Marblehead TRIAD Committee has representatives from Public Safety
organizations, Senior Citizens and Community Groups. The TRIAD updates our
seniors about new laws, frauds, scams, emergency planning, elderly assistance
programs and any other needs that our senior population may have.

The Fire Department continues to benefit from an excellent partnership with the
Marblehead Scouting Program. Eamon Dawes earned the rank of Eagle Scout for
undertaking the project of marking utility poles to indicate hydrant location in
extreme snow conditions. Eamon is the second scout to take on such a project. On
behalf of the Fire Department I want to thank Eamon for his time and effort.
Eamon has provided a valuable service to this community and deserves all our
thanks.

I also want to express my gratitude to the Marblehead Scouts for volunteering to
assist the Fire Department for the second straight year with the harbor illumination.
They have done an excellent job monitoring the flares to prevent citizens from
getting too close to the open flame, as well as preventing the possibility of grass
fires. I value our partnership and look forward to working with the Scouts in the
future.

Firefighter Tim Doane spearheaded the launching of the Fire Department’s Project
Lifesaver Program. Tim invested countless hours organizing the training and
workings with members of the community to make this invaluable program a
reality. Project Lifesaver is a system that helps provide a rapid response to save
lives and reduce the potential for serious injury to adults and children who wander
due to Alzheimer’s, Autism, Down Syndrome, Dementia and other related cognitive
conditions. On behalf of the Fire Department, I extend my profound gratitude for
the generous donations that were made by the Marblehead Masons, National Grand
Bank, Boston Yacht Club, Salem Waterfront Hotel, Atlantic Ambulance, Lafayette
Nursing Facility, and Devereux House Nursing Facility

The Marblehead Firefighters once again organized the annual Toy Drive, and in true
fashion, the citizens of Marblehead responded magnanimously. The troubled
economy did not hamper the drive. A record number of toys were collected and
distributed to those in need during the holiday season.

The Marblehead Firefighters continued their charitable efforts by sponsoring a
Firefighters Cook-off to raise money for Muscular Dystrophy. Firefighters from
surrounding departments met at the Danversport Yacht Club to participate in a




                                        148
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


friendly competition to prepare their favorite meals for those attending. The cook-
off yielded an incredible $10,000.00 for the Muscular Dystrophy Association.

This year the firefighters combined their fitness training with a charitable event.
They put together a team to participate in the Race Up Boston Place 41 floors, Stair
Climb Competition, to benefit the American Lung Association of Massachusetts. I
would like to recognize these individuals: Firefighters: Patrick Attridge, Mark
Barcamonte, Rich Cutting, Grant Glavin, Jeffrey Greenberg, James Horgan, John
Lequin, Eric Ridge and Joe Thibodeau.

SAFE Instructor James Horgan worked with the schools on two projects this past
year. The first was the Arson Watch Reward Program Poster Contest, sponsored by
the Massachusetts Property Underwriter Insurance Association. The first place
winner for the contest was Madison Ballou of the Marblehead Community Charter
Public School. Second place went to Anna VanRemoortel of the Marblehead
Veterans Middle School.

The second project was the YouTube Burn Awareness Video Contest, sponsored by
the Department of Fire Services, the Mass. Association of Safety and Fire Educators
(MA SAFE), and the Mass. Property Insurance Underwriting Association. The
Marblehead High School took third place for their video, Fire Safety.

The Marblehead Fire Department is committed to reducing the number of child
related injuries and death by implementing a child passenger safety seat program in
conjunction with the Governor’s Highway Safety Program. Since 2009 the
Marblehead Fire Department has been conducting free seat safety checks to the
residents of Marblehead and surrounding communities. Currently there are three (3)
certified technicians. These three members have checked or installed just over 300
child passenger safety seats in calendar year 2010

In July of 2010, Firefighter Eric Ridge attended four weeks of intensive training in
Chicopee Massachusetts to become a certified Hazardous Materials Technician.
Upon graduation from the class, Eric applied for and was granted a position on the
District Six Hazardous Materials Team. In the short time that Eric has been on the
team, he has responded to three incidents in Essex County.

 Conclusion
As Fire Chief, I recognize that the greatest asset of this department is its forty full-
time and one part time employee. Time and time again our personnel demonstrate
to me that our fire department has the best Firefighters/EMTs on the North Shore,




                                         149
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


and possibly, in all of Massachusetts. To each and every member, I thank you for
your continued professionalism and commitment to the people of our community. I
would also like to recognize the Civilian Dispatchers. They are a group of
dedicated and hardworking individuals, and are to be lauded for the great job they
do each and every day to help keep our community safe. In addition, I want thank
all of Marblehead’s citizens, officials, boards, committees, and other town
departments who have come to our assistance this past year. You may rest assure
that we will continue to provide the best in both emergency and non-emergency
services in the most efficient manner possible in the future.

Respectfully submitted,

Jason R. Gilliland
Chief of Department




                                      150
                                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Type of               Jan       Feb       Mar Apr       May Jun       Jul       Aug Sep       Oct Nov Dec        Total
Incident
Carbon Monoxide         11            8     4       1     4       6         4     7       2    12   14      13       86
Problems

Structure/                  1         1     2       2     3       2         1     0       2     3   6        3       26
Building Fires
Vehicle/ Boat Fires         0         1     1       1     0       1         1     1       0     0   0        0           6

Natural Gas Leaks           4     10        4       5     9       5         4     4       5     5   3        3       61
Response
Bomb Scare                  0         0     0       1     0       0         0     0       0     1   1        0        3
Mutual Aid                  3         1     1       0     0       4         3     1       3     0   0        1       17
Response
Electrical                  9     39        8       4     9     12          6     1       4     6   8        8      105
Problems
Alarm System            20            9     15   14      15     15      14       21   23       10   4        7      167
Malfunction
False Alarms                3         5     0       0     2       3         6     4       2     4   2        4       35
Lockouts/ Lock-             8         4     6       4     8       2         6     8   10       11   9       16       92
ins
Outside Fires               0         0     1       1     1       2         4     3       0     1   1        2       16
Rescue/Medical         103       103       103   85 107         95 123 112            96       88   89     106     1210
Responses

Water/Ice Rescue            0         0     1       0     0       1         1     1       0     0   0        0           4

Motor Vehicle               8         7     8    11       6     13      15       13       5     3   4        9      102
Accidents
Severe Weather              0         3     1       0     0       1         0     0       0     0   0        0           5
Responses
Good Intent Call            2         4     46      4     2       4     12       17       4     0    1       6      102

Public Service Call         7     15        5    10       5       9     13        8       8     8   10      14      112

Hazmat Response             1         2     1       2     1       0         0     0       0     2   2        1       12

Assist Police               4         1     2       3     0       1         2    10       1     1   0        1       26

Smoke Scare             11            6      9      3     6     10          9     6       4     4    7       5       80
Other Hazardous         23        26        17   20      18     19      28       22   17       32   30      21      273
Conditions
                                                                                                         TOTAL     2540




                                                          151
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                          APPARATUS
  Engine 1        2006 -- 1500 G.P.M. Pierce Pumper
  Engine 2        1998 -- 1500 G.P.M. Seagrave Pumper
  Engine 3        1989 -- 1250 G.P.M. Mack Pumper
  Ladder 1        1997 -- 75 Ft. KME Aerial Ladder-Quint
  C1              2006 -- Ford Explorer (Chief's Vehicle)
  C2              2010-- Ford Escape (Fire Prevention)
  C3              2002 -- Ford F250 Pickup Truck
  Rescue Boat     2001 -- 14 Ft. Zodiac with Outboard



           FIRE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL CHANGES
PROMOTIONS
Provisional Captain Charles P. Cerrutti      November 28, 2010
Provisional Lieutenant Frank T. Monahan       December 5 2010
APPOINTMENTS
Full Time Firefighter Matthew G. Christensen    March 14 2010
Full Time Firefighter Jeffrey R. Martin       November 7, 2010
Full Time Firefighter Matthew W. Lunt        November 21, 2010
RETIREMENTS
Firefighter Charles W. Morgan                     July 2, 2010
RESIGNED
Firefighter John G. Tobey        .               May 18, 2010




                               152
               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                  DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL
                             CHIEF
                        Jason R. Gilliland
                FIRE PREVENTION CAPTAIN
                        Michael A. Porter
                           CAPTAINS
  Walter F. Conrad, Jr.          Daniel A. Rice
  Scott R. Murray                Elizabeth A. Wilson
                 Provisional Charles P. Cerrutti
                        LIEUTENANTS
  Adam J. Hatfield              Provisional Frank T. Monahan
  Gregg M. McLaughlin           Thomas G. Rice
                       FIREFIGHTERS
  Patrick B. Attridge         Karl P. Lemieux
  A
  Mark  P. Barcamonte         John Lequin, Jr.
  A
  Steven L. Bivens            Matthew W. Lunt
  Arthur H. Boardway          Gregory T. Lydon
  Ronald N. Borden            Jeffrey R. Martin
  Mark S. Borowski            Scott T. Martin
  Matthew G. Christensen      Robert L. McKay
  Richard C. Cutting          Frank T. Monahan
  Rick R. DiGiammarino        Matthew I. Patterson
  Timothy J. Doane            Eric M. Ridge
  Mark F. Fader               Matthew J. Serratore
  Grant W. Glavin             Brendan J. Sheehan
  Jeffrey K. Greenberg        Charles W. Sprague
  Martin T. Hines             Eric Z. Thibodeau
  James M. Horgan             Joseph M. Thibodeau
  Douglas B. Knowles          Matthew J. Tina
ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK            DEPARTMENT CHAPLAIN
  Mary E. Levine                Reverend Dennis Calhoun




                                153
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                                 Fire Prevention

                   Practice Fire Safety ~ Watch What you Heat


The main objective of the Marblehead Fire Prevention Bureau is the protection of
life and property through the prevention of fire. This is accomplished by the
elimination of hazards through effective code enforcement and public education of
fire and life safety principles.

The Fire Prevention Officer works in conjunction with the Building Department to
ensure that new construction and any renovations of existing structures meet the
minimum fire safety requirements. They also perform annual inspections of every
establishment that holds a license to serve alcohol.

Eagle Scout Project ~ Future Eagle Scout, Drexel Erickson was assisted by the fire
prevention officer in designing a smoke and carbon monoxide detector checklist.
Drexel is working toward his Eagle Scout and with the checklist he assisted many
elderly homeowners in assuring adequate protection with the proper number and
location of smoke and carbon monoxide detectors.

Company Inspections ~ In-service fire companies made approximately 650 fire
and life safety inspections during 2010. The inspection checklist program that was
implemented last year has been very successful. We have found and corrected
numerous code violations that could potentially have produced disastrous results.
We are currently creating a separate checklist that will be sent to businesses prior to
our scheduled annual inspection to help business owners identify and correct the
most common issues we find from year to year. These inspections included public
buildings, offices, mercantile buildings and multi-family structures with three or
more units. The In-service inspections accomplish several objectives; the fire crews
become familiar with the building layout and they can help reduce the loss of life
and property by identifying fire and life safety violations.

Through our continued vigilance and your help we hope to make Marblehead a
                            fire safe community!

Fire Prevention Open House ~ The Fire Department hosted its annual Fire
Prevention Open House during the national fire prevention month in October. At
this years’ event we sealed off an entire truck bay on our apparatus floor and filled it




                                         154
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


with “safe” smoke to demonstrate how our thermal imaging cameras can see right
through it. Representatives from Bullard (the imager’s manufacturer) were on hand
to set up a mobile command center. The mobile command center is a complete
stand-alone unit which incorporates a 15.4” monitor and is capable of digitally
recording the transmitted video from a Bullard thermal imager to the remote
command center. We were able demonstrate just how valuable the imagers really
are for finding a victim in a smoke filled house fire or for search and rescue
operations where the missing person may be a roaming child or an Alzheimer’s
patient. We are able to search large areas in a short amount of time.

We were fortunate enough to have the Oko’s antique hand tub proudly on display as
well as Captain Rick Bartlett’s miniature working replica of the Oko’s hand tub.

Our “SAFE” squirt house was set up and many children got to be firefighters for the
day and put out the “fire”. We also had cars on site to demonstrate the use of the
“Jaws of Life” to participants.

I would like to thank all the firefighters who assisted in teaching the adults and
children some very valuable fire prevention techniques. I could not have done it
without their help.

I would also like to thank Papa Gino’s for once again providing the complimentary
pizza for our annual event.

2010 Results by the numbers:

•   1152 General inspections of property and buildings
•   55 Complaints investigated and conditions corrected
•   82 Inspection follow ups
•   5 Blasting complaints
•   86 Sets of plans reviewed
•   235 Residential sale of property inspections
•   115 Miscellaneous calls made by the Fire Prevention Officer, which included
    fire drills, development of fire and life safety plans, evacuation plans, lectures
    on fire safety, inspector meetings and hands on demonstrations.




                                        155
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


     THE FOLLOWING PERMITS WERE ISSUED BY THIS BUREAU:

        Fire Alarm Boxes                                           37
        Fire Reports                                               14
        Fuel Permit                                                01
        Oil Burner                                                 48
        Tank Removal                                              148
        Tank Storage                                               72
        Blasting                                                   04
        L. P. Gas                                                  28
        Dumpster                                                   97
        Sprinkler                                                  10
        Welding and Cutting                                        04
        Flammable Storage                                          02
        Tent                                                       01
        Tank Truck Storage                                         02
        Demo                                                       03
        Smokeless Powder                                           00
        Black Powder                                               02
        Tar Kettle                                                 00
        SMOKE DETECTORS
        Residential Sale of Property                              235
        Remodel Residential/Commercial                            103
        Commercial New                                             00
        TOTAL PERMITS                                             811

                                     S.A.F.E.
The following is a report from the Marblehead Fire Department Student Awareness
Fire Education (S.A.F.E.) Program for the year 2010.
The program is made possible by a grant from the Office of Public Education. The
goal of this program is to conduct fire and life safety education programs within the
town of Marblehead using trained Firefighters as educators.
For the past fourteen years we have conducted a comprehensive six-week Fire and
Life Safety Program with all Marblehead Public School first graders. This year we
moved up a grade to the fourth grade at the Village School. Because all of the
fourth grade students are located in one building, we made better use of our grant
monies and consolidated our teaching time. The program covers subjects such as




                                        156
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Stop, Drop and Roll! Home Escape Plans, Get Out and Stay Out and much more. It
has been a continued success again this year.
Firefighter James Horgan continued his great Fire Safety program at the Village
School, Marblehead Charter School and the Tower School. Firefighter Horgan,
using an open forum and his training as a certified Fire and Life Safety Instructor,
discussed personal fire safety awareness and life safety with over 250 students again
this year. Our goal with this program is to cement our commitment to make the
Marblehead Fire Department more than just a town department. We want to be a
partner with our community and we believe that beginning life safety education
early in a student’s career makes our community a safer place to live.
Fire Prevention Week is the second week in October and the Marblehead Fire
Department along with the SAFE Program had its annual Open House. Over 300
visitors came by to meet our Firefighters and to learn about what we do and the
equipment we use. Captain Porter arranged for a demonstration of our thermal
imaging cameras and we filled the Chief’s vehicle bay with smoke. It was a great
opportunity to show the citizens of Marblehead our great tools. I would like to
thank all of the Firefighters who helped set up and man all of the demonstrations.
I would like to thank the following educators who work so hard towards the
betterment of our program: Firefighter Greg Lydon for doing such a great job with
the First Graders; Firefighter John Lequin for his continued assistance and support
of our program; Firefighter James Horgan for working so well with the fourth
graders and Captain Mike Porter for his continued support. A very special thanks to
the entire Marblehead Fire Department; without their support, a lot of our programs
would not be possible.
Thank you to all of the children for being so wonderful and to the dedicated school
staff and teachers who work so closely with us and for allowing us into their
classrooms.


Respectfully Submitted,
Firefighter Brendan Sheehan
SAFE Coordinator




                                        157
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Training Report

Members of the Marblehead Fire Department are continually training in order to
provide the best possible service to the community. Members, both on and off duty,
attend training throughout the year. Reinforcement of the basic techniques along
with learning new procedures to meet present-day challenges is the focus of the
training. Department members and outside training agencies are both utilized to
provide instruction.

The on duty groups conduct daily training. Topics such as emergency medical
services, search and rescue, pumping, ladders, boat operations, vehicle extrication,
hazardous materials, surface ice rescue, and many others were conducted. The
emphasis in all training procedures is fire fighter safety.

Each year Marblehead Fire Fighters attended training conducted by outside
agencies. Many of the classes are several days long and require members to attend
on and off duty. Courses in the past year include: Hazardous Materials Technician,
Fire Investigation, Fire Officer, Structural Fire Fighting Practices, and Rapid
Intervention to name a few.

In addition, the Department requires all new members to attend the Massachusetts
Recruit Training program. This is an extensive 12 week program covering over 500
hours of training. This year, Fire Fighter/EMT Mathew Christensen completed this
program. Fire Fighter/EMT Eric Ridge completed the Hazardous Materials
Technician course which covered 160 hours. He is currently on the state District
Six Hazmat team.

In 2010 the Marblehead Fire Department was allowed to train at 10 West Orchard
Street prior to the structure’s demolition. This structure provided a great venue for
training using our inventory of power tools for ventilation and forcible entry under
controlled circumstances. The Department is grateful to the Hart family for making
this training possible.

In closing, the training division would like to thank all of the businesses and
individuals that provided assistance so we could conduct training throughout the
community. Thank you to all of the other departments for their support. To the
members of the Marblehead Fire Department, thank you for your support,
dedication, and professionalism throughout the year.




                                        158
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Lt. Charles Cerrutti
Firefighter Eric Ridge
Marblehead Fire Dept., Training Division



Emergency Management
The Emergency Management Agency prepares for natural and manmade disasters.
The Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) serves as the local
branch of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). In March, 2003,
FEMA became part of the U.S. Dept. of Homeland Security.

The Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) was established by
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to coordinate emergency services with various
state, local, and federal agencies. During a state of emergency, MEMA operates
from their headquarters in Framingham, MA.

As in years past, I have attended several local Emergency Management Directors’
meetings in Tewksbury. This has been a beneficial learning experience and has
kept me in touch with other area Management Directors who can and have assisted
Marblehead in times of need.

In May of 2010, Governor Deval Patrick issued a state of emergency to the thirty
communities that were affected by a massive rupture of a critical water main pipe in
Weston. A “boil water order” was issued. Marblehead opened a “point of
distribution center” on Tower Way. Over 10,000 gallons of water were distributed
to the public that day. The boil water order was lifted the following day.

The Water and Sewer and The Electric Light Commissions were gracious enough to
provide the funding for Code Red of Florida to use its automated telephone
notification system. This will allow town officials to notify residents and
businesses in the entire town or in selected areas within an emergency situation.
This is a valuable resource in the towns’ emergency management capabilities.
Residents and businesses are urged to add their cell phone numbers and other
contact information by going to www.marblehead.org and clicking the code red
logo.

Emergency preparedness is the first crucial step in facing an unexpected crisis.
Marblehead residents are encouraged to develop a home/family preparedness plan.




                                       159
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


To learn more about planning, please visit the Federal Emergency website:
http//www.fema.gov/areyou ready.

In closing, Marblehead Emergency Management would like to thank all department
heads, town employees, and residents who have provided service and support.


Respectfully,


Charles Cerrutti
Emergency Management Director




                                    160
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


          FORT SEWALL ORVERSIGHT COMMITTEE


The Fort Sewall Oversight Committee is a group appointed by the Board of
Selectmen and comprised of the following: Larry Sands – Glover’s Marblehead
Regiment, Chairman; Joyce Booth – Marblehead Historical Commission; Brenda
Arnold – Old Marblehead Improvement Association; Derek Norcross – Recreation
and Park Department; Lloyd Caswell – Selectmen’s Advisory Committee on
Disabilities; TBD – Old and Historic Districts Commission Ed Lang – At large
member; Phil Norcross – At large member; Thomas Hamond – At large member;
and Judy Anderson – Marblehead Museum and Historical Society. Rebecca Curran,
Town Planner and Brendan Egan, Recreation and Park Department are both ex-
officio members.

2010 was a quiet year at Fort Sewall, as we focused on maintaining the
improvements that were previously completed. Thanks to the diligent effort of Judy
Anderson we received a grant from The Society of the Cincinnati which will cover
the cost of fabricating and installing a plaque to honor General John Glover. The
plan is to dedicate the new plaque on Saturday July 9th, 2011 as part of the annual
Glover’s Marblehead Regiment Encampment.

In 2011 the committee plans to consider Phase 2 enhancements and another Clean-
Up Day is being co-sponsored by the Old Marblehead Improvement Association.

Respectfully submitted,

Larry Sands, Chairman




                                       161
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                         HARBORS AND WATERS


The Harbor and Waters Board is pleased to submit its annual report for the period
ending December 31, 2010.

The Stramski Pier Project is on schedule to be completed during the 2011 boating
season.

Members of the Marblehead Harbormaster and Fire Department crews along with
Harbormaster and Fire Department personal from Nahant and Swampscott
participated in on the water oil boom placement and oil containment training
sponsored by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Department of Environmental
Protection.

A small boat handling training program was conducted by Assistant Harbormaster
Webb Russell for members of the Fire Department. This training led to the
Harbormaster 23’ patrol boat being stationed in the Fire Department and manned by
firefighters during the winter months. This action proved critical in the rescue and
transport of an individual who fell down the rocks near Red Steps during the early
spring.

From June thru mid October the Marine Sanitation Pumpout Boat operated Monday
thru Fridays. The land based Marine sanitation pumpout facility at Cliff Street is
available seven days a week twenty four hours a day. The Harbormaster encourages
all boaters to utilize this free service.

The Harbormaster’s patrol staff responded to various calls and rendered such aid
as, towing disabled vessels, dewatering vessels, providing medical assistance,
conducting search and rescue for overdue vessels, investigated fuel and oil spills,
and removed various hazards to navigation

Special events patrolled;

July 4, 2010 Fireworks

Sadly, Harbor & Waters Board member of 23 years, William Pattison passed away
in August 2010. As an engineer, Bill gave generously of his time and expertise to
Harbor & Water Board projects. Bill volunteered his knowledge and educated
opinion and was not afraid to ask the “difficult” questions or demand reasonable




                                       162
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


answers. He was always a thoughtful and involved member of the Board. The
Harbor and Waters Board will miss him.

The Harbors and Waters Board extends its gratitude to The Board of Selectmen, as
well as all the Town Departments and their employees that provide service and
support to the Harbormasters operations.

Respectfully submitted
Charles J .Dalferro
Harbormaster

Harbor and Waters Board Members

Gary P .Gregory - Chairman
John Doub                         William Pattison
Paul Williams                     Jay Michaud


Alternate members

Kenneth Breen, Paul Stevens, Spencer Moore

Harbormaster Personnel

Charles J. Dalferro       Harbormaster
Fred Webb Russell III     Assistant Harbormaster
Daniel Roads              Assistant Harbormaster
Sandra Carney             Office Manager

Seasonal Assistants

Ray Gauthier              John Vigneron              Frank MacIver
Thomas Murray             John Payne
Jeff Flynn                Charles Cullinane

To view the Manual for Marblehead Waters as well as other harbor related
information visit our web page at www.Marblehead.org/Harbors




                                      163
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


               MARBLEHEAD CULTURAL COUNCIL


FY 2010, with $2842 in our account for various reasons and $4000 allocated to the
Marblehead Cultural Council by the state, a portion of $6842 was awarded to each
of 17 grant applicants. 11 grant requests were denied for various reasons. Below is a
brief summary of the grants that were approved.

    1. Senior Moments Tap and Dance Group provides tap dance classes
    specifically designed for seniors with emphasis on physical, emotional and
    mental health benefits. This long time favorite amongst the Marblehead senior
    community received funding to upgrade sound and recording equipment, music
    and costumes.

    2. Tower Elementary School received funding to host award-winning author
    Jeff Nathan of North Andover for a day of Poetry Can Be Fun. The day
    focuses on getting pK-2 students excited about poetry. It features an assembly
    for the students, staff and visiting previewers followed by additional workshops
    for grades 1&2.

    3. Marblehead Arts Association continues its Fall Lecture and Program Series
    to include four programs for the 2010 season at the King Hooper Mansion;
    “Arias in the Afternoon” featuring members of the New England conservatory
    singing Broadway tunes; a lecture on a modern art by a Fogg museum curator;
    a demonstration of animation techniques by Esther Barr of Dreamworks, Inc;
    and back by popular demand, a food and wine pairing featuring Boston chef
    Susan Regis and sommelier Al Stankus.

    4. Marblehead Peace Committee received funding in support of the Marblehead
    Peace Poetry Festival in June, 2010. Eighth grade students at the MVMS and
    Marblehead Charter Public School spent two weeks reading and writing poems
    about peace with instruction from published poets from the local community.
    This work culminated in a poetry reading attended by students, parents,
    teachers and the community at large. A book of 270 poems, incorporating all
    of the poems written by the students, was published by the Peace Committee.

    5. Delvena Theatre Company received funding for a return to the Marblehead
    Senior Center with a live performance of All the Presidents’ Women. This
    performance looks into the lives of some of our US presidents’ women – their
    wives, daughters, mothers, lovers, sisters, etc. fascinating stories, not so much




                                        164
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


publicized. It brings lively entertainment and promotes dialogue after the
performance between the cast and audience. A bit of history, heretofore
undefined.

6. The Marble Collection, Inc (TMC) strives to improve the humanities sector
for MA secondary students by implementing a complimentary, biannual print
and digital magazine of the arts. All MA secondary students are invited to
participate and may submit original works of literature, art, music and video for
a chance at publication. Formal editorial feedback is offered to accepted
authors/artists. TMC aims to distribute complimentary classroom bundles of 25
magazines biannually to all MA secondary schools.

7. Yetti Frankel received funding for a workshop Recycled Words: Found
Poetry in which attendees create a poem and art project on recycled cardboard
or a 36” inch fold out book. The workshop was held at the Abbot Public
Library.

8. Marblehead Veterans Middle School PCO, in mid-April brought bestselling
young adult author Laurie Faria Stolarz to meet with the 7th & 8th grade school
book groups. Laurie lead two discussions on how she got into writing, how she
got her first book published, and her career as an author in general. A Q&A
followed.

9. John Root, at the Abbot Public Library on April 30, 2010 presented
Songbirds of the Northeast, a 90 minute power point presentation featuring
both photographs and recordings of our region’s most common songbirds.
Participants learn how to recognize these birds by their songs and calls and
discover the roles of theses vocalizations in their lives. Habitats, migratory
behaviors, diets, life cycles, survival strategies and the status of songbird
populations in MA are explored.

10. Marblehead Council on Aging built upon the 2009 Drawing for Seniors
class with the 2010 More Drawing for Seniors class led by instructor/artist
Paula Beaulieu, M.Ed. The 8 weekly 2 hour sessions was designed to help
seniors learn to express themselves while reviewing and building on basic
drawing skills of shape, value, form, perspective, texture and composition.

11. Boston Ballet Northshore Studios at YMCA, under the direction of Rebecca
Harrold, was the location of Kinder Keyboard. This class for young children
(ages 4-7) is an introduction to piano registers and sound. It teaches the




                                   165
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


development of listening skills towards recognition of rhythmic patterns and
learning time signatures and their relations with the dance music. Learning
notes and keys, position of hands, use of fingers and how to play simple songs
in preparation for a presentation at the end of the year.

12. Dick and Cindy Luecke, a flute/guitar duo with an eclectic mix of music
from the Renaissance, early English dance tunes, and a little jazz play at an
event being planned for December, 2010 by the Marblehead Arts Association.

13. Sandra Golbert, award-winning fiber artist, received funding for a two
session silk painting workshop at the Abbot Public Library in August, 2010.
Participants learn to paint on silk with cold water dyes and create colorful
works of art. Sandra’s artwork can be seen in numerous galleries around the
country and in the Caribbean.

14. The me&thee coffeehouse celebrated its 40th anniversary with the New
England Folk Music Symposium on April 30, 2010, free to all attendees. A
panel discussion, moderated by Boston globe columnist, Scott Alarik, followed
with audience members joining the conversation. Other featured panel
members include me&thee founder, Anthony Silva, Salem folk singer Julie
Dougherty, Boston-area roots musician Alastair Moock, Marblehead songstress
Jeanie Stahl, and director of the NE Folk Music Archives Tim Mason.

15. American Sign Language storyteller and presenter, Karen Glickman,
received funding to bring Learn How to Sign the Very Hungry Caterpillar to
the Abbot Public Library. During this hour long program, attendees learn how
to sign various words from this favorite book by Eric Carle. The program is
geared towards young children and their parents. It is presented in American
Sign Language with voice interpretation for the hearing impaired.

16. Marblehead-Grasse Sister City Committee, under the direction of Myriam
Zuber, in support of the International Traveling Art Exchange project. The
project is part of a Sister City partnership which supports international
exchange between Marblehead and Grasse, France. In May 2010, the work of
Grasse artists and photographers were exhibited in the King Hooper Mansion.
In September 2010, Grasse showcases Marblehead works of art. Funding was
granted to support publicity to promote the public art exhibit at the Marblehead
Arts Association in May 2010.




                                   166
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


    17. Dick Buckley received funding for Evolution ’10. This is a 2 day exhibit by
    12 award winning artists and includes performances by eight singer
    songwriters. All art will be offered for sale with no mark-ups added or
    commissions taken.

Members of the Council this year include Gloria Coolidge, Nora Falk, Joan
Hollister, Walter Horan, Joanne Johnston, Ava Lawrence, Betsy Morris, Georgia
Murray, Howard Rosenkrantz and Ginny von Rueden.

Respectfully submitted by,


Phyllis McCarthy
Chair, Marblehead Cultural Council




                                       167
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


           MARBLEHEAD HISTORICAL COMMISSION


We live in a unique and historic town – its places, structures, people and stories tell
the history of New England in a microcosm. Our mission is to identify, preserve and
protect Marblehead's historical assets – its places, artifacts and stories, while
making these accessible to all. We want to educate the public about and publicize
Marblehead's proud history. We also want to work with other organizations to help
achieve our mission. Finally, we fulfill our legally required obligations per Mass.
General Laws Chapter 40, Section 8d by working with the state Historical
Commission and State Archeologist.

The Commission has spaces in Abbot Hall to display and store historic artifacts,
maintain a Maritime Room Museum, a gift shop and office space for research and
cataloging items in the collection. The office, on the second floor of Abbot Hall, is
open from 10:00 - 12:00 daily. The Commission has monthly meetings, normally
on the 4th Tuesday of the month at 10:00 am and the public is invited to attend.

The gift shop is managed by Gail Gray and is staffed by volunteers. The Maritime
Room Museum is also staffed by volunteers. Both are open during the tourist
season and for the Arts Festival and Christmas Walk.

In 2010 we accomplished the following:

    1.   Wayne Butler retired from the Commission, but graciously agreed to
         remain as the Commission’s Collections Manager.
    2.   The Commission appointed three Associate Members: Gail Gray, William
         Kuker and Eleanor Rhoades to one year terms.
    3.   The Commission procured and installed two new office computers and a
         flatbed scanner using money from the Reynolds Fund.
    4.   A plaque was installed on the Abbot Hall landing acknowledging funding
         of the restoration of the Abbot Hall stained glass windows by a grant from
         the Shattuck Fund.
    5.   Updated descriptions of Abbot Hall’s artwork were created and placed in
         notebooks in the Selectmen’s Room and Maritime Room.
    6.   New bunting was procured for Abbot Hall and the Town House using
         funding from the Gift Shop Fund.
    7.   The remaining old Abbot Hall attic windows were replaced/repaired
         (circular windows) using funds from the Shattuck Fund.
    8.   Work was begun on restoration of the Abbot Hall upper level stained glass




                                         168
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


        windows, to be completed in early 2011. This work has been funded by a
        grant from the Shattuck Fund.
    9. The basement hallways and rotunda of Abbot Hall were replastered and
        repainted (in preparation for installing an upgraded Shop Sign Museum)
        using a grant from the Shattuck Fund.
    10. The walls of the Selectmen’s Room in Abbot Hall were restored using a
        grant from the Shattuck Fund.
    11. Digitizing of the color slides from the Bowden Osborne Collection was
        completed.
    12. A number of donations were received for the Town’s collection, notably
        including a large collection from the Lausier estate.
    13. The Commission created and mounted an exhibit of photographs of
        Marblehead in Abbot Hall in collaboration with the Marblehead Museum
        and Historical Society – Recollections: Marblehead in Black & White.
        Most of photographs are now on display at the Mary Alley Office
        Building.
    14. The Commission co-sponsored a showing of the documentary film
        “Gerrymandering”.

The same volunteers have continued with cataloging the collection. They are
Wayne Butler, Chris Johnston, Eleanor Rhoades and Richard Case. Additional help
was provided by Paul Ciavarra.

Respectfully submitted,

Commissioners
Joyce Booth
Harry Christensen
William E. Conly, Vice Chairman
Donald Gardner
Nancy Graves
Chris Johnston, Chairman

Associate Commissioners
Gail Gray
William Kuker
Eleanor Rhoades




                                     169
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


              MARBLEHEAD HOUSING AUTHORITY

The Marblehead Housing Authority is pleased to submit our annual report for the
year ending December 31, 2010.

The primary mission of the Marblehead Housing Authority is to provide decent,
safe, and sanitary housing opportunities, thereby improving the quality of life for
those of low income, including the elderly, families, and those with disabilities.

For over 60 years, the Marblehead Housing Authority has carried out this mission,
and in 2010, the Authority continued to house the homeless, low income families,
the disabled, and the elderly living on fixed incomes.

The Marblehead Housing Authority is “a public body politic and corporate”
authorized by State Law and regulated by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
(Department of Housing and Community Development).

The Board of Commissioners consists of four members elected by the Town, and
one member appointed by the Governor. All members of the Board serve a 5 year
term. In May, Robert Bryne was re-elected to his 3rd, 5-year term on the Board. The
fifth Commissioner continuing her first term is Pamela Foye.

The Board meets regularly on the third Tuesday of each month at the community
room at the Roads School, 26 Rowland Street, and conducts its Annual Meeting and
election of officers every June.

In June, Richard Whitehill was elected Chairman of the Board; Jean R. Eldridge
was elected Vice-Chair; Robert Bryne was elected Treasurer; and Peter Russell was
elected Asst. Treasurer.

The Board of Commissioners contract with an Executive Director who administers
the day-to-day operation of the Agency.

The Marblehead Housing Authority receives no funding from the Town of
Marblehead.

Although 2010 was another year of budget cuts and decreased rental income, with
careful planning and fiscal constraint, the Authority continued to operate on its




                                       170
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


rental income, and did not require a subsidy from the State Department of Housing
& Community Development (DHCD).

The Marblehead Housing Authority administers 3 housing programs, and owns and
operates 307 units of state-assisted conventional housing. Eight (8) developments
comprise the MHA residential portfolio. The developments are of various ages,
sizes, and configurations, and are as follows:

                        1 bedroom     2 bedroom       3 bedroom       Total
Family Housing:
Barnard Hawkes Ct       N/A           12              10              22
Broughton Road          N/A           33              21              54
New Broughton Road      N/A           4               4               8
Elderly Housing
Powder House Court      38            N/A             N/A             38
Green Street Court      32            N/A             N/A             32
Farrell Court           64            N/A             N/A             64
New Farrell Court       48            N/A             N/A             48
Roads School            41            N/A             N/A             41
TOTAL                   223           49              35              307


Summary of Accomplishments:

The Authority received a grant in the amount of $758,000.00 in American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) weatherization funds to replace old,
inefficient heating systems in 76 of our family housing units.

The Authority received an “Outstanding Agency Award” from the Massachusetts
Chapter of the National Association of Housing & Redevelopment Organizations
(NAHRO), in the area of Resident Service for the development and implementation
the “Jazz Decades”, a four-part program on the history and music of the 1920’s,
1930’s, 1940’s and 1950’s.

The Massachusetts NAHRO Scholarship Committee selected Jordana Dragon, a
resident of our family housing development, as a recipient of a $2500.00 college
scholarship.




                                      171
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


2010 was a busy and productive year. The Authority continued to focus on capital
improvements, and committed funds from our operating reserve to make these
improvements.

Capital Improvements:

16 exterior doors were replaced at our Farrell Court elderly housing complex.

28 overhangs and exterior doors were scraped, primed and painted at Farrell Court
and New Farrell Court.

Boiler repairs were made at Farrell Court, and a new circulator pump was installed.

Tile was replaced in 16 hallways at Green Street Court.

Underground heat pipes were replaced at both the Farrell Court and New Farrell
Court complexes.

Walkways were re-paved at New Farrell Court, and walkway repairs were made at
Powder House Court.

Roof repairs and gutter repairs were made at Broughton Road and Barnard Hawkes
Court.

Appliances were replaced throughout our complexes, as needed.


PROGRAM MANAGEMENT


Eligibility

Anyone wishing to be considered for public housing must submit an application and
supporting documentation. The MHA conducts a review of income and assets to
determine preliminary eligibility.




                                       172
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


In August, DHCD issued new Net Income Limits for determining eligibility to
state-aided housing, as follows:

                 No. in Household:                Net Income Limit:
                     1 person                        $45,100
                     2 people                        $51,550
                     3 people                        $58,000
                     4 people                        $64,400
                     5 people                        $69,600
                     6 people                        $74,750
                     7 people                        $79,900
                     8 people                        $85,050


Assets: There is no longer any asset limit in any of the Authority’s programs. The
current HUD determined interest rate, or actual interest earned on assets, is included
as income.

Applications for Admission and Occupancy Statistics:

Local preference is given to eligible applicants who live or work in the town of
Marblehead.

Veteran’s Preference is given for family housing and to elderly local applicants.

Prior to being offered a unit, the MHA conducts a thorough screening process of
applicants, including a criminal record check, landlord history, and credit report.

In our elderly housing program, the Authority received 80 applications for elderly
housing during 2010, including 27 applicants that were disabled and under the age
of 60. As of the year-end, there were 91 applicants on the waiting list for elderly
housing.

There were 30 vacancies in elderly housing in 2010.

The average age of a resident in our elderly housing program is 73 years.

There are 16 residents over the age of 90, including 5 residents age 95 or older. Our
oldest resident is age 98.




                                        173
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010



In accordance with State guidelines, 13.5% of the units are occupied by disabled
residents under the age of 60.

In June, the Authority closed the family housing waiting list, due to the number of
families already on the list, and an estimated wait of 10 years or more.

As of the year-end, there were 263 families on the waiting list. This represents an
increase of 35% from last year.

During 2010, there were 11 vacancies in our family housing program. .

Of the 80 units of family housing occupied at year-end, there were 71 single-parent
households, and nine two-parent households.

There are 109 children under the age of 18 living in the family housing
developments.

In total, 453 people reside in our housing complexes.

Rent

Residents of elderly housing pay 30% of their adjusted gross income for rent, which
includes all utilities: heat, hot water, electricity and gas. Residents of elderly
housing have on-site laundry facilities at each complex. All residents have 24-hour
on-call maintenance. The average rent paid this year by an elderly resident was
$371.00. The lowest rent paid this year was $62.00 and the highest rent paid was
$1053.00.

Family residents pay 27% of their adjusted income toward rent, and pay for their
own utilities. Family residents are also given an annual heat allowance of $500.00
(two bedroom unit) or $600.00 (three bedroom unit). Family housing residents also
have 24-hour on-call maintenance. The average rent paid by a family this year was
$453.00. The lowest rent paid by a family was $54.00 and the highest rent paid was
$1601.00.

State Regulations require the Authority to process an annual Rent Recertification of
every household, to determine continued eligibility. In addition, the Authority is
required to recertify rent any time there is a change in household income. In 2010,




                                        174
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


the Authority processed 354 rent re-certifications, including 258 annual re-
certifications and 96 interim rent changes.

Maintenance

The Maintenance Department is responsible for the upkeep of 307 units at 8
locations, ensures that the buildings are safe, responds to routine calls and
emergencies situations, and maintains the landscaping and snow removal at each
development.

In 2010, the maintenance staff completed 897 work orders, including resident
requests, inspection findings and site work. The Department also performed the
work necessary in 41 vacant units (30 elderly, and 11 family units).

There were 384 unit inspections completed this year. These included an annual
inspection of every apartment, 30 move-in inspections, 24 move-out inspections,
and 18 interim inspections.

Staff Development / Employee Training

The Authority continued its commitment to staff development in 2010.

All members of the maintenance department and the administrative staff
participated in a comprehensive 2-day training seminar sponsored by DHCD and all
staff received housing inspection certification.

In addition, staff attended trainings, workshops, and certification programs in the
areas of capital planning, tenant selection and eligibility, maintenance and
modernization, and financial management.

Services to Residents

In 2010, two new programs, designed to meet the needs of our residents were
developed:

A Quarterly Music Program was established this year, which provided live
musical entertainment, including professional musicians as well as acapella
performances. Several groups from the Marblehead Public Schools participated in
this program.




                                       175
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010



In June, the Authority sponsored a Senior Community Resource Fair. The fair
brought together 12 agencies to better inform our residents of the programs and
services available to them in Marblehead and the surrounding communities. There
were free health screenings, balance testing, exhibits on local agencies and
organizations, give-a-ways, and refreshments provided by local food markets.

Through its Resident Service Coordination Program, the Authority continued to
identify residents that may need assistance, and link those residents to the
community resources that will enable them to live independently for as long as
possible. This year, 26 referrals for services were made to the following agencies:
Marblehead Council on Aging: (transportation, meals, & outreach) North Shore
Elder Services: (home making, hoarding, protective services, & money
management) Marblehead Counseling Center: (mental health & mediation services),
and the Marblehead Veteran’s Agent: (medical). In addition, several residents of
our family housing program were referred to organizations designed to assist them
in parenting, budgeting and mediation services.

The Authority continued to sponsor a monthly speaker and coffee hour for the
residents of our elderly housing developments. This year, there was a variety of
programs offered, including health and nutrition; exercise, safety and fall
prevention; tips on how to beat the heat; chair massage therapy; arthritis, and
everyday forgetfulness v. memory disorders.

In addition to community speakers, our senior residents enjoyed get-togethers with
Brownie Troops from two of the local schools. The first was Valentine Day Bingo
with Tea and Treats held in February. In May, students entertained residents with
songs and Earth Day activities.

Several special events take place during the year, designed to bring our residents
together for their enjoyment and overall well being. The staff works together to
plan, organize, and participate in these events, and these programs keep are seniors
active and involved in their community.

The Annual Cookout was held in September. This year, there was a patriotic
theme, with live musical entertainment and a sing-a-long of patriotic songs. The
Authority is grateful to the many local businesses that donated food and prizes for
this event.




                                       176
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


This year, there were several holiday events at the Authority, designed to give our
residents a happy, holiday season. Residents enjoyed our Annual Holiday Party
held in December, with live music, caroling, and a visit from Santa. Once again,
local businesses generously donated gift certificates for the raffle, which is always
the highlight of this event.

A concert by the Select Chorus from Marblehead Village Middle School, and
carolers from Marblehead High School acapella group Serendipity, provided the
residents with an opportunity to enjoy the music of the season.

The Authority distributes a monthly newsletter to all three hundred and seven
(307) households to keep residents up-to-date on programs and general information.

The Authority continued to inform our residents of the programs and services that
are available to them through “Making the Connection” a helpful guide that
includes brochures and other informational material on all of the services, programs,
and amenities the town has to offer. This guide is given to every new resident at the
time they sign their lease. Additionally, it is used as a reference tool for our current
residents and staff.

The Authority completed its 8th year of a Rent Escrow Program, which enables
eligible households in family housing to transition to unsubsidized housing options
in the private market. Three (3) families are currently enrolled in this program.

COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES

The Authority continued to effectively partner with other public and private local
entities to maximize community resources for our residents.

The Authority held our 12th Annual Safety Program for residents of elderly
housing, and collaborated with the Marblehead Police and Fire Departments to
present a comprehensive program that included fire prevention, cooking safety, fall
prevention, evacuation procedures, personal safety and identity theft. The
Authority’s “Emergency and Safety Plan”, which is designed to keep residents and
staff as safe as possible during an emergency, was reviewed with residents. There
were live demonstrations, a safety trivia contest, refreshments, and door prizes.

The Authority continued to partner with area service providers to improve the
delivery of services at the local level to elderly persons. The Marblehead




                                         177
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Providers Group continued to meet each month to share information on programs
and services, collaborate, and outreach.

The Authority sponsored monthly health clinics conducted by the
Marblehead/Swampscott VNA at all of our community rooms, affording residents
an opportunity to have their blood pressure checked on a regular basis, discuss
medical conditions and have questions answered.

The Executive Director is a member of the TRIAD Council, a partnership among
the Essex County Sheriff’s Department, the District Attorney’s Office, the
Marblehead Police Department and the Marblehead Council on Aging. The TRIAD
program develops and implements an effective crime prevention and education
program for elders.

The Executive Director is past president and current member of the North Shore
Executive Director’s Association (NSHEDA). This group serves 65 housing
authorities north of Boston, and sponsors monthly speakers and programs.

The Housing Authority wishes to thank the current staff, Assistant Director Debra
Larkin, Housing Manager Cynthia Palladino, Administrative Assistant Christine
Levoshko, Office Clerk Danielle Caron, Maintenance Foreman John Bonfanti, and
Maintenance Department staff members Mark Sasso, Christopher Homan, Stephen
Abramo, and Michael Curley, for their dedication and hard work during the past
year.

The Housing Authority also wishes to express its sincere appreciation for the
outstanding cooperation of the town departments and the citizens of Marblehead,
who supported and assisted the Authority in our efforts to provide affordable
housing for the residents of Marblehead.




                                      178
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Respectfully submitted,


Nancy M. Marcoux,
Executive Director


Board of Commissioners:
Richard Whitehill, Chairman
Jean R. Eldridge, Vice Chair
Robert Bryne, Treasurer
Peter Russell, Assistant Treasurer & State Appointee
Pamela Foye, M




                                       179
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


        METROPOLITAN AREA PLANNING COUNCIL
             NORTH SHORE TASK FORCE
Beverly, Danvers, Essex, Hamilton, Gloucester, Ipswich, Manchester by the Sea,
Marblehead, Middleton, Nahant, Peabody, Rockport, Salem, Swampscott, Topsfield
and Wenham


During 2010, the North Shore Task Force took part in a variety of activities,
including:

•   Holding two work workshops devoted looking at the challenges and
    opportunities faced by municipalities financing and siting wind and solar
    renewable energy projects.

•   Conducting a US Census Outreach Forum to help raise awareness of the 2010
    Census and the importance of developing contacts in all communities,
    particularly in “hard to count” areas such as dormitories and apartments.

•   Coordinating to provide input and discussion on the North Shore, six town
    Regional Development, Open space and Transportation Grant funded by the
    Executive Office of Housing and Economic Development. The six towns
    involved in the grant were Beverly, Danvers, Ipswich, Hamilton, Salem and
    Wenham. The grant helped participating communities become aware of overall
    North Shore community development issues and can serve as a precursor for
    more regional development collaboration under MetroFuture and the
    Sustainable Communities Program.

•   Partnering with the MA Department of Energy Resources to sponsor an update
    on the Green Communities Program including which North Shore
    municipalities have become certified Green Communities, which are in the
    process of doing so and learning about new energy efficiency and renewable
    energy projects within the region.

•   Reviewing and offering input into a variety of regional transportation programs,
    including the Transportation Improvement Program, the Unified Planning and
    Work Program and the Regional Transportation Plan, as well as opportunities
    to participate in Transportation Demand Management and Suburban Mobility
    programs.




                                       180
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


•   Reviewing and offering input on both the 2009 Danversport Mixed Use and the
    2010 Peabody/Salem Corridor Action Plan MAPC funded District Local
    Technical Assistance projects.

•   Participating in a workshop co-sponsored by EPA Region One on the draft
    MS4 Stormwater Management Permit. Communities and private sector
    attendees learned of new requirements being considered in the new permit and
    made aware of the opportunity to comment on the draft language.

•   Hearing a presentation from MAPC staff on the proposed Comprehensive Land
    Use Partnership Act (CLURPA) as part of a two-meeting process to review and
    comment on both CLURPA and preliminary MAPC 2011 legislative priorities.

•   Identifying ongoing North Shore planning and community development issues
    through Community Exchange, in which local planners and decision makers
    share key issues or developments with fellow NSTF attendees.

•   Presenting a new opportunity to work with the recently formed MAPC Energy
    Services Program to help North Shore Communities work with MAPC staff in
    order to take full advantage of existing state and federal renewable energy
    programs, increase municipal energy efficiency and site municipal renewable
    energy projects.

For more information, visit www.mapc.org/subregions/nstf.




                                     181
                 MUNICIPAL LIGHT DEPARTMENT


To the citizens of the Town of Marblehead:

The Marblehead Municipal Light Department is pleased to provide its 116th annual
report and financial statements for the calendar year ending December 31, 2010.

In the electric utility industry weather extremes are not typically a welcome sight
and in 2010 we certainly had our share of unwelcome sights in Marblehead. From
the nor’easter in late February, violent thunder and lightning storms in June, the
extreme heat in July and August, the threat of hurricane Earl in September, to a post
Christmas blizzard, weather conditions had a significant impact on light department
operations in 2010.

What seemed to be a slow start to the winter season quickly changed in the early
evening of February 25 when heavy rains and strong winds approaching 80 miles
per hour toppled trees and brought down power lines all over town. By 7:00 p.m.
the situation really began to cascade and for the next two days straight, work crews
worked tirelessly to restore power to all impacted customers. In many respects this
storm was worse than Hurricane Bob in 1991.

 In June, Marblehead and surrounding communities suffered the brunt of two
consecutive severe thunder and lightning storms which again brought heavy rains,
gusty winds, and knocked down trees taking wires along with them.

And while the threat of Hurricane Earl in early September turned out to be just that,
only a threat, work crews were positioned and well prepared for what might have
been. Then finally in December the Town once again experienced what was more
than just a threat when a post Christmas blizzard came rolling into Town ending the
year with yet another challenge for the light department operations personnel.

Although the summer of 2010 was much hotter than in recent years, the Town did
not set any new records for energy demand or consumption. Total energy
consumption in 2010 increased to 105,826,130 kilowatt-hours compared to
101,459,386 kilowatt-hours consumed in 2009. The hourly peak demand was also
up reaching 28,028 kilowatts on July 6 at 1:00 p.m. compared to 25,677 kilowatts
set on August 18, 2009 at 5:00 p.m. Both of these statistics could have been a lot
higher if it weren’t for the energy conservation efforts by our customers.
While working through many of the weather related issues throughout the year the
light department also substantially completed a major substation project. The new
Commercial Street substation was energized on March 26 and all circuits were
transferred to the new station by mid April. This was the first significant upgrade to
the Commercial Street substation equipment since 1960 and significantly increases
the reliability to our customers. The new equipment also reduces noise while
incorporating an aesthetic design not typically found in traditional substation
projects. All that remains is to remove the older de-energized substation equipment.

As part of the light department’s 5-year budget and work-plan, work crews replaced
60 older pole-mount distribution transformers and also began a project to replace
the aging Anderson circuit. This circuit, which primarily serves the business and
residential customers along Pleasant Street from Washington Street to School
Street, will replace several poles and the older open wire and cross arm
configuration with new poles and aerial spacer cable configuration without cross
arms. When completed in early 2011 this project will improve reliability as well as
enhance aesthetics to the area served.

Through most of 2010 the price of natural gas from month to month has been in a
slightly downward trending to flat market and has provided much stability to our
wholesale power supply costs. Since greater than 50% of New England’s electricity
production is from fossil fuels, any changes in fuel cost, either up or down, will
impact the wholesale cost of electricity. As a result of the stability of natural gas
prices, the Purchased Power Adjustment charged to our customers has also
remained stable for 2010. Favorable fuel price forecasts in 2010 have also prompted
us to make forward purchases well into 2013 to help stabilize overall future power
supply costs for our customers.

After ten-plus years of careful planning and development, the vision of the
Berkshire Wind Power Project as a leader in clean, green, and renewable energy is
coming to fruition. By the end of November 2010 all 10 wind turbines had been
erected and work continued on the remaining critical path items. The 10-turbine, 15
megawatt project, is scheduled to begin operation in early 2011 and produce more
than 52,500 megawatt hours per year, enough to power approximately 6,000 homes.
Marblehead’s share of the project is 6.7 percent or just over 1 megawatt.

The Marblehead Municipal Light Department (MMLD) along with the
Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company and 13 other municipal light
plants formed the Berkshire Wind Power Cooperative Corporation to own and
manage the project located on Brodie Mountain in Hancock, Massachusetts. The
purpose of this project is to create a renewable energy addition to our overall power
supply portfolio, reduce dependence on fossil fuels, and curb greenhouse gas
emissions.

Over the life of the turbines, the operation of the Berkshire Wind Power Project will
offset over 612,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) production and the use of
1.7 million barrels of oil.

Throughout 2010, MMLD has been working closely with the Department of Energy
(DOE) to coordinate the implementation of our new smart meter program. The 50
percent matching grant totaling $1,346,175.00 was finalized and awarded to MMLD
on March 12, 2010. The MMLD project involves the town-wide installation of a
fully integrated advanced metering system and a pilot program to assess the
effectiveness of dynamic pricing and automated load management. It is aimed at
reducing peak electricity demand, overall energy use, and operations and
maintenance costs while increasing distribution system efficiency, reliability, and
power quality.

MMLD was one of only one hundred companies nation-wide, including only 33
public power systems, selected for negotiations for an award with the DOE.
According to the DOE, the awards amount to the largest single energy grid
modernization investment in the country's history. Full roll-out of the project is
scheduled for early 2011.

In 1995 the actual installed cost of the electric plant in service totaled $9,047,488.
By the end of 2010 the actual installed cost totaled $25,355,473 demonstrating the
light department’s commitment to infrastructure improvement. This increased
investment in electric plant has been accomplished without the need to issue debt.

The light department together with the water and sewer department provided the
funding for a new emergency notification system called CodeRED. The CodeRED
system is a high speed telephone calling system capable of delivering customized
pre-recorded emergency messages directly to homes and businesses. The timing of
the purchase was very fortuitous as the system was utilized by the Town during the
blizzard in late December.

Net surplus revenue that was returned to the Town to reduce the tax levy in 2010
was $330,000. The ten-year cumulative amount through 2010 totaled $3,530,000.
While we continue to investigate new sources of generation supply, we also
recognize the importance of energy efficiency and demand side management
programs within our community. Our programs provide various rebates when
customers buy certain appliances or programmable thermostats, and also include a
substantial rebate on home insulation and the installation of photovoltaic systems.
The total rebate amount to our customers in 2010 was $97,252 and represents a total
energy savings estimated at 300,670 kilowatt hours. For further information on the
light department’s energy and conservation programs please visit our website at
www.marbleheadelectric.com.

The light department saw many changes in personnel this year as four long time
employees retired. Kathleen Snow, 30 years; Robert Dane, 24 years; Diane Glavin,
16 years; and Douglas Proto, 14 years; all retired in 2010. We wish them health,
happiness, and continued success. As part of the personnel changes we brought on
two new full time employees, Kirk Blaisdell and Toyo Johnson, and one part time
employee Matthew Karakoudas. Welcome aboard!

In 2010, the Light Department received a Safety Award from the American Public
Power Association for the year 2009. For MMLD, this is our 16th consecutive
safety award and our 20th in the last 21 years, an unprecedented record of which we
are extremely proud. We continue to emphasize the importance of safety in the
workplace as well as through our successful school safety programs.

Appreciation is tendered to the Board of Selectmen, Town Officials, Department
Heads, and to all Town employees for their support and contributions.

Respectfully Submitted,

Robert V. Jolly, Jr., General Manager

Philip W. Sweeney, Chairman
Wilbur E. Bassett, Commissioner
Calvin T. Crawford, Commissioner
Walter E. Homan, Commissioner
Charles O. Phillips, Commissioner
                    MUNICIPAL LIGHT DEPARTMENT

                                BALANCE SHEET

                       For the year ending December 31, 2010

                                       Assets

Plant Investments                                                  12,709,864.11

Current Assets:
  Cash - Operating                                  2,585,354.37
         Petty Cash                                       500.00
         Construction                                  38,237.56
  Accounts Receivable                               1,670,312.76
  Interest Receivable                                     877.57
  Materials & Supplies                                 91,716.55
     Total Current Assets                                           4,386,998.81


Depreciation Fund                                                   3,309,675.30
Insurance Escrow Account                                              952,170.73
Hydro Savings Reserve                                                  59,663.21
MMWEC - NEPEX Reserve Trust                                           556,142.58
Rate Stabilization Reserve                                            900,000.00
Consumer Deposits                                                      18,214.89
Prepayments                                                         1,241,316.77
     Total Assets                                                  24,134,046.40




                               Liabilities And Surplus

Accounts Payable:
  Depreciation                                         10,511.39
  Operating                                         1,079,804.81
  Construction                                              0.00
  Consumer Deposits                                         0.00
     Total Accounts Payable                                         1,090,316.20

Consumer Deposits                                                      21,069.89
Reserve for Uncollectible Accounts                                    383,966.79
Reserve for Future Compensated Absences                               118,956.97
Accumulated Provision For Rate Stabilization                          900,000.00
Opeb Liability                                                        515,533.00
Unappropriated Earned Surplus                                      21,104,203.55
     Total Liabilities And Surplus                                 24,134,046.40
                    MUNICIPAL LIGHT DEPARTMENT

                             STATEMENT OF INCOME

                         For the year ending December 31, 2010



Operating Revenue                                                    15,083,310.91

Less Expenses:
   Operating                                         12,257,638.23
   Maintenance                                          900,525.21
   Depreciation                                       1,226,276.21
      Total Expenses                                                 14,384,439.65

Operating Income                                                       698,871.26

Interest Income                                                         33,845.28

Other Income                                                            77,482.06

Less Miscellaneous Income Deductions                                          0.00

Net Income Transferred to Surplus                                      810,198.60




                             STATEMENT OF SURPLUS

                         For the year ending December 31, 2010



Balance December 31, 2009                                            20,935,458.03

Add: Credit balance transferred from income                            810,198.60
    Adjustment to transfer prior years
    Power Refunds to surplus                                                  0.00

Subtotal                                                             21,745,656.63

Deduct: Amount transferred to Town Treasurer
         to reduce the Tax Levy                                        (330,000.00)
       In Lieu Of Tax Payment to City Of Salem                           (6,791.08)
       Auditor's adjusting entries for year
         ended December 2009                                           (304,662.00)

Balance December 31, 2010                                            21,104,203.55
                   MUNICIPAL LIGHT DEPARTMENT

                             OPERATING EXPENSES

                        For the year ending December 31, 2010

Power Generation Expenses:
  Fuel                                                  27,873.27
  Generating Expense - Lubricants                          900.83
  Misc. Other Power Generating Expense                       0.00
  Maint. of Other Power Generation                      60,167.80
     Total Power Generation Expense                                    88,941.90

Power Supply Expenses:
  Electric Energy Purchased                          8,124,366.55
  Misc. Purchased Power Expense                      1,639,158.11
     Total Power Supply Expenses                                     9,763,524.66

Transmission Expense:
   Maintenance of Overhead Lines                                             0.00

Distribution Expenses:
   Station Expense - Labor & Other                      14,044.49
   Station Expense - Heat & Electricity                 52,209.23
   Street Lighting                                       4,273.43
   Meter Expense - Inspection, Testing,
                    Removing, Resetting                 84,605.05
   Customer Installation Expense                        57,597.92
   Misc. Distribution Expense                          143,893.05
   Maintenance of Structures                             2,021.04
   Maintenance of Station Equipment                     33,787.81
   Maint. of Overhead & Underground Lines              701,596.90
   Maintenance of Line Transformers                      9,785.64
   Maintenance of Meters                                 1,556.06
      Total Distribution Expenses                                    1,105,370.62

Customer Account Expenses:
  Supervision of Customer Accounting                    97,003.85
  Meter Reading - Labor & Expenses                      71,210.48
  Customer Records & Collections                       267,759.80
  Uncollectible Accounts                                30,000.00
  Interest Paid on Consumer Deposits                        77.96
     Total Customer Account Expenses                                  466,052.09

Advertising, Conservation, Energy Audits                              168,367.01

Administrative & General Expenses:
  Administrative Salaries                              159,326.42
  Office Supplies & Expenses                           145,639.46
  Outside Services Employed                             28,824.70
  Property Insurance                                    32,796.00
  Injuries & Damages                                     9,915.90
  Employee's Pensions & Benefits                     1,059,180.32
  Maintenance of General Plant                          40,397.35
  Transportation                                        51,212.61
  Miscellaneous General Expense                         38,614.40
     Total Administrative & Gen. Expenses                            1,565,907.16

     Total Operating & Maintenance Expenses                         13,158,163.44
                 MUNICIPAL LIGHT DEPARTMENT

                  NOTE TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                       For the year ending December 31, 2010

The Marblehead Municipal Light Department has since 1971 entered into power
agreements for the supply of electric energy to the Town of Marblehead. The
agreements are of varying terms with multiple suppliers ranging out to 2026. The
aggregate amount of certain obligations under the agreements as of December 31,
2010 and estimated for future years is $7,164,000.00. This sum represents a
significant part of the fixed cost portion of existing contracts for electric energy and
is accounted for in the monthly billing process. Complete audited financial
statements and supplementary reports are available at the Marblehead Municipal
Light Department.
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010




         OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISSION

The old and historic districts commission (OHDC) is comprised of five members
and two alternate members, all appointed by the Board of Selectmen. The OHDC
determines the appropriateness of proposed alterations or additions to properties
located within the historic district. The commission meets on the first and third
Tuesday of each month in Abbot Hall at 7:00 PM. Meetings are not held on
holidays, or other municipal exclusions. Citizens may request a Certificate of
Appropriateness by submitting an application, which is available at the Selectmen’s
office in Abbot Hall. Information about the content of an application is available
online or in pamphlet form in the Selectmen’s office. Upon submission of an
application, the Selectmen’s office will schedule an available time in the upcoming
schedule for the application to be heard. At the hearing the board first determines if
‘states are materially affected’, if they are not then the board moves to vote. If they
are ‘affected’ the board will determine if the application should be heard as a public
hearing. A public hearing requires notification of abutters of the intended work, and
informs them of the time for the public hearing to take place. The public hearing
consists of three parts; the first is the presentation of the application, the second part
gives affected parties and abutters the opportunity to support or oppose the
applicant’s proposal, and the third part is the boards’ deliberation and vote to
approve or deny the application. Each application is reviewed on a case by case
basis. The determination of appropriateness is based on one or more of the
following; age and historical significance of the structure, the structures relationship
to open space, relative size of new additions, changes in exterior fenestration,
construction materials, and construction methods among others.

In 2010, the Commission issued a total of 172 new certificate of appropriateness
and several amendments at the following addresses: 9 Bassett St., 11 Bassett St., 16
Bassett St.; 8 Beacon St., 50 Beacon St.; 10 Circle St., 21 Darling St..1 Doak’s
Lane, 19 Doak’s Lane, 40 Doak’s Lane, 31 Elm St., 55 Elm St., 67 Elm St., 73 Elm
St., 85 Elm St.,119/121 Elm St., 2 Fort Beach Way, 7 Fort Beach Way, 1 Fort
Sewall Lane, 8 Fort Sewall Lane, 2 Fort Sewall Terrace, 4 Fort Sewall Terrace, 7
Fort Sewall Terrace, 7 Franklin St., 16R Franklin St., 26 Franklin St., 33 Franklin
St. 1 Front St., 61R Front St., 66 Front St., 72 Front St., 99 Front St., 104-106 Front
St.,114 Front St., 115 Front St., 119 Front St., 129 Front St., 147 Front St., 150
Front St., 161 Front St., 172 Front St., 2 Gas House Lane, 3 Glover Square, 2
Gingerbread Hill, 11 Gingerbread Hill, 16 Gingerbread Hill, 27 Gingerbread Hill,
28 Gingerbread Hill, 9 Goodwin’s Court, 15 Goodwin’s Court, 1 Gregory St., 2




                                          190
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Gregory St., 7 Gregory St., 12 Gregory St., 18 Gregory St., 11 Hanover Court, 2
Harding Lane, 35 Harris St., 37 Harris St., 4 High St. ,14 High St., 29 High St., 32
High St., 36 High St.; 13 Lee St., 24 Lee St., 57 Lee St., Leslie Cove, 0 Mariners
Lane, 2 Mariners Lane, 7 Mariners Lane, 10 Mariners Lane, 4 Market Square, 6
Market Square,1 Mechanic, 12/14 Mechanic, 25 Mechanic, 23 Merritt St., 17
Middle St., 19 Mugford St., 27 Mugford St., 28 Mugford St., 35 Mugford St., 36
Mugford St., 37 Mugford St., 39 Mugford St., 3 Nicholson St., 14B Nicholson
St.,17 Nicholson St., 20 Nicholson St., 5 Orne St., 15 Orne St., 24 Orne St., 26 Orne
St., 29 Orne St., 30 Orne St., 34 Orne St.,54 Orne St., 7 Pearl St.,, 9 Pearl St., 27
Pearl St., 28 Pearl St., 34 Pearl St., 3 Pleasant St., 9 Pleasant St., 15/17 Pleasant St.,
27 Pleasant St., 32 Pleasant St., 65 Pleasant St., 66 Pleasant St., 69 Pleasant St. 72
Pleasant St. ,86 Pleasant St. 3 Selman St.,10 Selman St., 8 Stacey Court, 8 Stacey
St, 14 Stacey St., 3 State St., 10 Waldron Court, 13 Waldron Court, 13 Waldron
St.,33 Waldron St.,10/12 Washington St.,16 Washington St.,18 Washington St., 21
Washington St., 22 Washington 34 Washington St., 35 Washington St., 42
Washington St., 44 Washington St.45 Washington St.,52 Washington St., 54-58
Washington St., 59 Washington St., 62 Washington St., 63 Washington St., 75
Washington St., 76 Washington St., 81 Washington St., 85 Washington St., 114
Washington St., 119 Washington St.,122 Washington St.,129-131 Washington
St.,132 Washington St., , 160 Washington St., 166 Washington St.,175 Washington
St.,181 Washington St., 187 Washington St., 203 Washington St., 210 Washington
St., 223 Washington St., 235 Washington St., 10 Washington Sq., 18 Washington
Sq., 26 Washington Sq.

Thank you all for your support.


Respectfully Submitted:


Thomas G. Saltsman, Chairman
Cheryl Boots
F. Reed Cutting Jr.
Charles Hibbard
Sally Sands
Bette Hunt, Alternate
Kayrn Lang, Alternate




                                          191
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                            PLANNING BOARD

The Planning Board is an elected board comprised of five members and one
alternate member, each with a three year term. The current board members are
James Bishop, Philip Helmes, Kurt James, Karl Johnson and Edward Nilsson.
Russell Beck serves as the alternate member. Philip Helmes serves as chairman.
The Town Planner, Rebecca Curran, oversees the board's administrative process and
provides technical assistance to prospective applicants and interested parties.

The Planning Board meets regularly on the second Tuesday of each month and as
needed at other times. The regular meetings are held in the selectmen’s meeting
room in Abbot Hall at 7:30 PM. The agendas are posted on the town’s website and
at the office of the Town Clerk.

It is the responsibility of the planning board to approve different types of
development including divisions of land to create new lots, all new non residential
buildings over 700 square feet and all new residential construction and additions
over 500 square feet within the shoreline and harbor front districts. State and local
laws which govern the process for these approvals are Massachusetts General
Laws (MGL) Chapter 40A (the Zoning Act); MGL Chapter 41, Sections 81K –
81GG (the Subdivision Control Law); the Town of Marblehead Subdivision Rules
and Regulations Chapter 258 of the by-laws of the town of Marblehead , MGL
Chapter 40A and the Town of Marblehead Zoning Bylaws.

In 2010 there were two subdivisions which created new roads. These application
known as Form C applications were located at Naugus Ave/Mound Road and an
extension of Eustis Road. Additional properties reviewed under the subdivision
control law include 13 Approval Not Required – Form A applications (ANR) at the
following addresses; 10 & 12 Anderson Street, Bartlett Court, 24 Beacon Street &
Norman, 1,2,3 Eustis Road, 17,21, & 25 Flint Street, 9 Florence Road, 1
Community Road, 23 & 25 Curtis Street 16 Foss Terrace, Garfield Street, 11 Hewitt
Street, Naugus Avenue and 8 Treat Road. Also Frontage waivers were granted at 1
Community Road and 23 & 25 Curtis Street

The planning board held eight site plan review public hearings at the following
addresses: 27 Naugus Ave, 15 Coolidge Road , 1/2/3 Eustis Road & Beacon, 26
Coolidge Road, Naugus Ave A.K.A Mound Road, 33 Clifton Heights Lane, 150
Front Street, 1 Doaks Lane. Two of the site plan approval applications were for
subdivision of three lots or more, four were for additions to existing single family




                                        192
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


homes within shoreline district in excess of 500 square feet and two were for new
single family house (one was a teardown).

The town’s first smart growth plan approval was submitted in 2010 for a 17 unit
building at 94 Pleasant Street, the site of the former YMCA. Three of the housing
units will be designated as affordable housing.

Another duty of the Planning Board is to investigate all proposed amendments to
the Zoning Bylaw appearing in the Warrant for any Town Meeting, and to present
its recommendations to the Town for consideration at Town Meeting. This process
is governed by Massachusetts General Law Chapter 40A Section 5. The town
received one citizen zoning article that proposed changing the frontage requirement
from 100 feet to 75 feet. The board held two public hearings on the matter.

The board was very saddened by the passing of longtime planning board member
David Stern. Dave had been a member of the board for over 20 years and served as
chairman for many of those years. He will be missed.

Planning Board members served on a variety of Boards and Committees in 2010
including Jim Bishop - Metropolitan Area Planning Council, Kurt James – Fair
Housing and Smart Growth Committee and Edward Nilsson on the Zoning Sub-
Committee.

The Planning Board thanks the Board of Appeals, especially Barbara Shefftz, and
the Building Department for their input on the Planning Board’s Zoning
Subcommittee and in the coordination and cooperation on various projects
throughout the year.

The Board wants to thank Willy Lanphear who provides technical assistance to the
board and to prospective applicants. Planning Board applications are processed in
the Engineering Department by Colleen King. The board thanks Colleen for her
incredible organization, energy, efficiency and excellent work.

Philip Helmes, Chairman
James Bishop
Kurt James
Karl Johnson
Edward O. Nilsson
Russell Beck, Alternate
Rebecca Curran – Town Planner




                                       193
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                          POLICE DEPARTMENT

The Marblehead Police Department is pleased to submit to the citizens of
Marblehead our Annual Report for the year ending December 31, 2010.

For the year 2010 the Police Department had a total of 17,474 logged incidents
requiring police response with 446 of those incidents involving felonies. The
Department had a total of 236 arrests including 48 for protective custody.
Department officers stopped 2210 motor vehicles for various violations and issued a
total of 1048 citations. There were a total of 257 reported motor vehicle accidents
in 2010. Officers issued 2,911 parking tickets during 2010.

In 2010 the Police Department saw several changes in personnel. Officer Paul J. A.
Belyea retired after nearly 32 years of service and Officer Cary Gaynor retired after
10 years of service on the Police Department. The Department hired Daniel Katz
and Daniel Gagnon as new patrol officers. The new officers began intensive
training in the police academy beginning in October of this year and will return to
the Department in April of 2011 for assignment. Dispatcher Matthew Lunt left the
police department for a full time position as a fire fighter with the Marblehead Fire
Department. Dispatcher Barbara Gomez was hired as his replacement. Additionally,
our part time clerk Mari Goetz left for a position in the private sector. We were
lucky to have found Theresa Tauro as her replacement. We wish all the personnel
that left well in their new endeavors.

In June the Selectmen awarded a contract to Strategic Policy Partnership to conduct
an independent assessment of the police department. The assessment was
conducted and a report submitted to the selectmen in November. Although the
department does not agree with all of the conclusions drawn in the report, we
embrace the recommendations made in the report for areas of improvement. The
department will be working on addressing each of the recommendations made
including the formulation of a strategic plan. This process is lengthy and will
continue well into 2011.

On behalf of the department I would like to thank all the citizens of Marblehead for
their assistance and continued support over the past year.

I would also like to thank the officers and staff, both sworn and civilian, of the
Police Department for their dedication and professionalism in carrying out their
duty throughout the year.




                                         194
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Respectfully Submitted,


Robert O. Picariello
Chief of Police

Police Department Personnel 2010:

Police Officers:

Chief                      Robert O. Picariello
Temporary Captain           Mark D. Mills
Lieutenant                 David J. Millett
Lieutenant                 Matthew Freeman
Lieutenant                 Jonathan Lunt
Temporary Lieutenant       Nicholas Economou
Sergeant                   Donald Decker
Sergeant                   Marion Keating
Sergeant                   Sean Sweeney
Sergeant                   Jason Conrad

Patrol Officers:

Arthur Buckley Jr.         Sean Brady
Paul J. A. Belyea (ret.)   Charles Sinclair
Lori Knowles               Eric Osattin
Roy Ballard                Brendan Finnegan
David Ostrovitz            Michael Daigle
Christopher Gallo          Dennis DeFelice
Adam Mastrangelo           Richard Alex
Dean Peralta               Michael Everett
Christopher Adkerson       Jason McDonald
Andrew Clark               Daniel Katz
Michael Roads              Daniel Gagnon
Cary Gaynor (ret.)


E-911 Dispatchers:
Supervisor Amy Gilliland
Scott Kaufman




                                       195
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Teresa Collins
Gregory Lapham
Matthew Lunt (part year)
Nicholas Michaud
Michael Economou
Barbara Gomez

Senior Clerk:
Deborah Frongillo

Part Time Clerk:           General labor:
Theresa Tauro              Charles Sinclair Sr.

Animal Control Division:
Animal Control Officer Betsy Tufts
Assistant                Laura Consigli
Assistant                Diane Treadwell

Animal Inspector:
Isabel Lorenco

School Traffic Supervisors:
Paul Lemieux              Edith Chalifour
John Spanks               Leonard Cormier
Warren Perry              Randi Warren
Margaret Denis            Douglas Bates
Robin Reed                Earline Lemieux
Susan Page                Basil Rubin
Elizabeth Greely          Katherine Millett
Thomas Adams              Marjorie Mace
John O’Connell            Leroy Millett


                            ANIMAL CONTROL

Calls to the Police Station and Animal Shelter in 2010: 1,857
(These do not include calls made directly to the Animal Control Officer)
DOGS:
Impounded                   72




                                        196
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Returned to Owner         70
Released to Shelter        2
Adopted                    2
Euthanized                 0
Neglect/Cruelty            1
Hit by Car                 3

CITATIONS:                                   REPEAT OFFENDERS:
Failure to leash           96                         30
Failure to License          56
Pooper Scooper               5
Beach/Park                 22
Excessive Barking          27                         4
Failure Vaccinate/Rabies 3
(These are issued after verbal and written warnings in most cases)

The Animal Control Officer would like to remind everyone that there are no
“unwritten laws” regarding the leash law. The Towns leash law requires, when you
are off your property with your dog, that it be leashed 24/7/365. That means
secured from the owner to the dog regardless of how well your dog is trained. All
dogs must be leashed, licensed, wearing said license and picked up after.

CATS:
Reported Missing          67
Found                     39
Abandoned /Neglected       3
Hit by Car                 7
Rescued                   43

Animals Adopted:
Cats/Kittens              164
Dogs                        2
Rabbits                     2
Ferrets                     1
Birds                       2
Guinea Pigs                 1

Unfortunately, one of our cats ”Miss Kitty” succumbed to cancer.




                                      197
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Animal Control would like to remind all cat owners that they need to keep their
cat’s rabies vaccinations up to date.

Our Animal Control office and shelter is located at 44 Village Street. I deeply
appreciate all the love and support, not to mention the countless hours, our
volunteers give 365 days a year.

All wildlife comes under the Division of Fisheries and Wildlife. They invite anyone
who would like, to log onto their web site at www.mass.gov/dfwele. The State asks
that we remind all residents that wildlife is considered a valuable natural resource
and should not be destroyed just because of its presence in an area. Residents need
to take the time to remove or repair any areas of their property which may be easily
accessed by wild animals. This will help prevent some of the many nuisance issues
faced by property owners each year. Some areas to check are Trash bins, chimney
caps, bird feeders, refraining from feeding your pet outdoors, locking your dog/cat
door at night and never feeding any wildlife. It is illegal to relocate or transport any
wildlife in the State of Massachusetts.

Please don’t forget to spay or neuter your pet.

Respectfully submitted,


Betsy Tufts
Animal Control Officer




                                         198
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                       RECREATION AND PARKS

The Recreation and Parks Commission submits this report for the year ending
December 31, 2010.

The Commission is made up of five residents who are elected annually at a general
town election on the second Monday in May each year. The Commission’s
regularly scheduled meetings are held on the first and third Tuesday of each month
at 7:00 PM in the Community Center at 10 Humphrey Street. These meetings
consist of reports, the appearance of persons or groups on the agenda, the review of
correspondence submitted for consideration, discussions of plans and objectives,
and reviews of policies, rules, and regulations as needed. The Commission reviews
and approves the hiring of personnel when recommendations are presented.
Programs and budgets are reviewed by the Commission annually and they act as an
advocate with the Finance Committee and at Town Meeting. The Commission also
reviews and approves the fees and charges made for various uses and programs
concerning the department. The Commission has responsibility for overseeing the
programming, rental, and operation of the Community Center. Night and weekend
fees and rental charges are used from the Revolving Fund to contribute to the
operating and utility costs of the Community Center.

Fields and School Athletic Facility Maintenance

The Department maintained the fields and was responsible for the field preparation,
including lines, for the following sports: High School (Varsity, Junior Varsity, and
Frosh): football, baseball, softball, lacrosse, soccer, and field hockey; Youth Sports
baseball and football; men’s softball and soccer, women’s softball, and co-ed
softball.

Spring required varsity school sports first (Seaside baseball, High School softball,
Middle School lacrosse and baseball), followed by the mid-April Youth Sports
through summer, adult softball through September, and varsity/JV soccer, field
hockey, and football at the end of August. For the months of September, October,
and November, all fall varsity and junior varsity football, soccer, and field hockey
school and youth sports fields were maintained for soccer and football.

The mowing and trimming of athletic fields is done on weekdays with school in
session due to extensive usage on afternoons, evenings, and weekends. Line
marking with latex paint and/or non-caustic chalk is also done while classes are




                                        199
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


inside the schools. Mowing of properties began in early April and continued
through November on a five day per week schedule. Leaf cleanups ran October
through December, and spring cleanups ran March through May . In cooperation
with the school department special playground fiber was purchased and added to all
school and town playgrounds as needed for safety surfacing to reduce the chance of
injuries due to falls. The department was unable to “manicure” the grounds at the
Schools due to budget and manpower limitations; plantings and mulch were added
as time and materials allowed.

Budget and staff limitations, requests for extra work, and changes on short notice
remained a continual problem. Early spring and late fall field scheduling depended
on when fields were dormant, wet, frozen, or overused in any one area. Fall is the
best time to do seeding and sod work on fields but was frequently in conflict with
the demands of the activities scheduled and the department’s continual shortage of
funds, materials, and manpower vs. those demands.

In June conditions became normalized and the landscaping and horticultural
problems slowed down, allowing the department to begin fertilizing, aerating,
seeding and mowing.

The department continued to utilize money from the operating budget to complete
necessary projects on athletic fields. Hopkins Field and the Village School Middle
Field were closed from the end of June through the end of August. The center of
Hopkins field was stripped from goal line to goal line and roto-tilled to a depth of
5”. The field was then rolled and top soil was added to re-establish a crown and
proper finished grade, fertilized to a depth of 2” and 22,000 square feet of sod was
installed. The Village Middle Field was stripped and roto-tilled in a number of
sections. The field was then rolled and top soil was added to establish a proper
finished grade, fertilized to a depth of 2” and 6,500 square feet of sod was installed.
Piper Field received an additional 800 square feet of new sod to replace damaged
areas that were compacted or had poor drainage.

In cooperation with Marblehead Youth Softball and the School Department the
Varsity softball field at Veterans School was completely renovated. In early August
the existing infield mix was completely removed from the infield. A two inch layer
of sand was installed for drainage and more than 300 cubic yards of Native Blonde
infield mix was added. The edges of the infield were cut to give a uniform look,
home plate and the pitchers rubber were reset and new base anchors were installed.
This project was completed by two full-time Recreation & Parks Department
employees, Greg Snow and Bob Gillis with assistance from the Highway




                                         200
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Department.

During the year a sports utilization group met at the Community Center with Sam
Ganglani and Linda Rice Collins acting as liaisons for the Commission. The group
kept communications and scheduling concerns open so the various town sports
teams and coaches could minimize conflicts and maximize usage.

The Recreation and Parks Department continued its participation in the Property
Tax write off program. There were a number of residents who provided outstanding
assistance as part of the program at various times during the year. They were: Karin
Martin at Memorial Park, Marge Mace at Redd’s Pond, Old Burial Hill, and Fort
Sewall, Carol Green at Devereux Beach, Jim Zeiff and Fred Alling at Fort Sewall
and Crocker Park assisting with keeping the dog waste bag stations supplied and
John Reed at Seaside Park.

All line marking, mowing, and field schedule changes were coordinated by Grounds
Foreman Peter James who assigned Pat Sylvester to the athletic field marking. Pat’s
efforts continually earned kudos from the school department and youth sports
leagues.

The parks maintenance expense budget was again level funded for fiscal year 2011
while material and delivery costs continued to increase. With these restrictions, and
the limited available seasonal maintenance staff, one of the park’s seven full time
employees was again switched to a Wednesday – Sunday schedule and dedicated to
trash removal and restroom repairs and maintenance during the summer season.

The Commission received numerous requests for fund raising and business use of
the Community Center and the parks. These requests must be approved by a vote of
the Commission as required in the Town By-laws. Among those approved were:

        At the community center:
              o The Board of Health Flu Shot Clinics
              o The Marblehead Arrangers Garden Club Christmas plant and
                  arrangement sale during the Christmas Walk
              o The Democratic Town Committee Caucus
              o Scouting functions
              o Marblehead Family fund “Touch a Truck”
              o Free seminars
              o New Recreation opportunities
        Hamond Nature Center:




                                        201
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


             o   The Massachusetts Audubon Society sponsored a camp program
                 during July with the staff from the Ipswich River Sanctuary
                 supervising.
       Devereux Beach and parking areas:
            o Senior Class Carnival
            o The M.S. Walk in April
            o The Boston Children’s Hospital “Cycle for Life” used the beach
                 to begin and end its fund raising bike ride
            o Marblehead Rotary Club’s Great Race
            o Several other bicycle and road races to use the beach to begin and
                 end events
            o Rack storage for prams/kayaks
            o Winter dock storage
       Gerry Playground:
            o The Republican Town Committee
            o Several Cub Scout outings
            o Eco Farm Co-operative Market from spring through fall
            o Rack storage for prams/kayaks
       Other fields:
            o Boy Scout Troop 11 for the sale of Christmas trees at Gatchells
                 Playground
            o The Y.M.C.A. fun run at Seaside Park and outdoor summer
                 programs at Orne, Gerry, and Hobbs Playgrounds for soccer and
                 T-ball programs

Building and Comfort Station (restroom) Maintenance

In addition to the community center other buildings required more attention due to
increased demand. The department continuously maintained a workshop and
equipment storage at Devereux Beach, the garage on Vine Street, Gerry Playground
garages and playground room storage, and the Seaside Park grandstand storage for
supplies only.

The department also maintained comfort stations (restrooms) at the following
locations: Chandler Hovey Park, Devereux Beach, Crocker Park, Fort Sewall,
Reynolds Playground, Gerry Playground, Gatchells Playground, and Hamond
Nature Center on a seasonal basis. Water & Sewer costs, electricity, cleaning
supplies, and paper goods came from the department budget. Doggie bags were
provided through the department’s budget at Chandler Hovey Park, Crocker Park,
and Fort Sewall. Dogs are prohibited from all athletic fields and children’s




                                      202
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


playgrounds; all other Parks require dogs to be leashed and dog waste is required by
law to be disposed of in proper safe receptacles designed for fecal waste disposal
(not public trash barrels).

Park Improvements

Through hard work and dedication by a number of community groups and residents
the following park improvements were made possible.

    •   The renovation of the Bud Orne Rink was completed with the installation
        of new fencing and a net to keep pucks off Lime Street.
    •   The swings were replaced at Seaside Park and new playground fiber and
        tough timbers were added.
    •   The swings at Gatchell Playground were replaced after being damaged by a
        fallen tree and new recycling bins were added in an effort to increase
        public area recycling.
    •   In cooperation with Marblehead Youth Baseball and Groom Construction
        the bathrooms at Gatchell Playground were renovated.
    •   In cooperation with the Marblehead Family Fund and a grant from the
        Shattuck Foundation, Headers Haven was removed and a brand new play
        structure was installed at Gerry Playground.
    •   In cooperation with the Rotary Club of Marblehead Harbor, the pavilion
        roof at Fountain Park was replaced and all of the benches were refinished.
    •   The pavilion and bathroom building roofs were replaced at Crocker Park
        and the pavilion and gazebo were given fresh coats of paint. The pier head
        is in the process of being renovated and will be ready for the upcoming
        summer season. These capital improvements were made possible through
        funding from the Coffin Fund.
    •   In cooperation with the youth sports groups new turf blankets were
        purchased for use on a number of athletic fields.

Anticipated Capital Improvements

   Restroom remodeling at Crocker Park, from funds available from the Coffin
    Fund




                                       203
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Leased Properties

The Devereux Beach Concession Stand was operated in 2010 by Mr. Paul Petersiel
doing business as “Lime Rickey’s” in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 30 with
permission of the Board of Selectmen and the Recreation & Parks Commission.

The Gerry Playground House (A.K.A the Stramski House) lease still remained
vacant. The Commission continued to seek usage of the facility compatible with
recreation & park programs and policies.

Equipment Replacement and Seasonal Staffing

The department continued to look for reliable seasonal maintenance staff from April
through November, utilizing college students during the summer school break
which left us short staffed during spring and fall months when we needed them the
most. This has resulted in the shifting of budget monies to allow for use of sub
contracting in some areas to meet the demands of grounds maintenance.

Facility & Grounds Landscape Maintenance Program

The Parks staff was responsible for the landscape maintenance, mowing, trimming
of trees and shrubs, and removal of litter on the following properties in 2010 (Note:
“*” denotes athletic fields requiring continuous mowing, lining, and reconditioning
for the Town’s sports programs):

 Recreation, Parks, &         Cemetery & Historic
                                                              Public Landings:
 Forestry Properties:               Grounds:
   Castle Rock Park           Cressy Street Cemetery           Barnegat trash
 Chandler Hovey Park          Green Street Cemetery         Clark Landing trash
  Community Center            Hooper Tomb Cemetery            Cloutmans trash
     Crocker Park             Harris Street Cemetery       Commercial Street trash
   Devereux Beach            Old Burial Hill Cemetery        Parker Yard trash
      Fort Beach                   Redd’s Pond              Tucker Wharf Trash
                               Waterside Cemetery
      Fountain Park            (when requested by
                              Cemetery Department)
    Gerry Playground         School Dept. properties:      Other Public Grounds:
                               Beacon/Green Street
 * Gatchells Playground                                          Fort Sewall
                                      reserve
  * Hobbs Playground               Bell School                Gas House Beach




                                        204
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


   * Orne Playground              Coffin School           Grace Oliver’s Beach
 * Reynolds Playground           Eveleth School              Red Steps Way
     * Seaside park               Gerry School           Fort Sewall turnaround
     Memorial Park               Glover School             Brookhouse Drive
                               * Marblehead High
 Devereux Beach garage                                   Gallison Avenue Way
                                     School
    Vine St. Garage           Lincoln Ave. reserve          Gatchells Green
                              * The Village Middle
                                                           Lovis Cove Beach
                                     School
                              * The Veterans Junior
                                  High School
                                                             Conservation
                             Other Public Building’s
         Other:                                           Commission Lands
                                   properties:
                                                          (As labor permits):
                                                          Bicycle, Exercise, &
  All public shade trees           Abbot Hall
                                                           conservation trails
Traffic Islands (donated)       Abbot Library               Robinson Farm
 All Public litter barrels        Gun House              Hamond Nature Center
                              Mary Alley Building             Forest River
                                OKO Building                Hawthorn Pond
                               Old Town House                Steer Swamp
                                Powder House                Wyman Woods
                              Tower Way Grounds                Ware Pond


Winter and Spring 2010 Recreation Programs

The department continued the successful ski program under the planning and
supervision of Recreation Supervisor Mike Lane to Attitash/Bear Peak in Bartlett,
N.H. leaving at 6:00 AM on five Saturdays and returning at approximately 6:00 PM.

The department also continued to offer the family skating program at Salem State
College for two hours on Sunday afternoons from October through February, and
programs at the Community Center and other town facilities including: an adult
boot camp; a Saturday morning Youth Basketball program; a winter pre-school
“indoor park”; after school programs sports clinics, “Know Atom” science classes,
Lego workshops, piano lessons, kids boot camp and a basketball program for girls
in grades 2 – 8. Evenings featured adult badminton on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and
Sundays and adult pickup volleyball on Mondays and Thursdays. Marblehead




                                      205
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Youth Badminton and Marblehead Youth Basketball also rented time in the gym for
their programs on weekday afternoons.

Mike Lane continued to coordinate and implement a number of free community
events such as the yearly Christmas parade, the free Halloween decorating contest,
and the free “Talk with Santa” program.

Summer and Fall 2010 Recreation Programs
The department continued providing numerous summer outdoor programs (with
rain locations provided) including the Gerry Playground Program (ages 5-7) and the
Seaside Park Program (ages 8-11). Both programs offered an “extended day”
option. Other programs offered in various locations included: Field trips to Canobie
Lake Park and Water Country; The Magician’s football, field hockey, basketball,
baseball, and lacrosse clinics; the Roger Day baseball clinic, a soccer clinic; tennis
lessons, girl’s evening basketball at Seaside Park; youth sailing classes at Gerry
Playground; and kayaking instruction at Riverhead Beach. Indoor programs in
summer and fall at the Community Center continued to offer science classes, adult
volleyball, and piano lessons. The department also offered a number of new
programs including track and field, voice coaches, television production and a
junior explorer’s science program.

Department Staff
The Recreation Department is very fortunate to have a great staff of full and part-
time employees. Our employees strive to make a positive difference and are
committed to our community and, are willing to go the extra mile.

We want to thank the Department’s employees for their dedication to our Town’s
natural resources and recreation opportunities. The following people worked for the
Departments during the past year:
   Brendan Egan, Department Superintendent
   C. Michael Lane, Recreation Supervisor and Assistant Superintendent
   Ric Reynolds, Senior Clerk
   Peter R. James, Working Foreman/Building and Grounds
   Robert Gillis, Parks Maintenance Craftsman
   Greg Snow, Maintenance Craftsman/Mechanic
   Reginald Berry, Mike Attridge, Brad Delisle, and Pat Sylvester, Maintenance /
    Groundskeepers.

There are many instructors who worked in the various recreation programs,
playground, and other leisure services within the department in the parks and at the




                                        206
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Community Center. Also, there were seasonal maintenance workers and caretakers
for the parks, and summer maintenance workers and lifeguards at Devereux Beach.

The Commission would like to thank the staffs of the Tree, Highway, Health,
Harbormaster, Building, Schools, Finance, Municipal Light, Cemetery, Police, Fire,
and Water/Sewer Departments for their continued support and the Town
Administrator, Town Clerk’s, and Selectmen’s office for their assistance during the
past year.

Every year there are many who volunteer with maintenance and recreation
programs for the Town. The Commission wants to express its thanks on behalf of
all the residents who benefit from the countless hours volunteered, making
Marblehead a great place to live.


Respectfully submitted,

Chip Osborne, Chairman
Derek Norcross
Sam Ganglani
Linda Rice-Collins
Chuck Nyren

Brendan Egan
Superintendent, Recreation & Parks
Town of Marblehead




                                       207
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                    SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES


The following work was completed for the year ending Dec 31, 2010:

Scales Sealed:                             42
Scales Condemned:                           0
Gasoline/Diesel pumps Sealed:               6
Gasoline/Diesel pumps NOT Sealed:           0
Scales Rechecked After Repairs              0
Consumer Complaints Investigated            1
Report Letter Written                       0
Apothecary Sets Sealed                      3

Respectfully submitted,


David C Rodgers
Sealer




                                     208
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                       SHELLFISH CONSTABLES

Devereux, Tucker’s, and Goldthwait beaches were opened for the harvesting of surf
clams on October 1st. The Board of Health supplied the MA Division of Marine
Fisheries with historical water quality reports. As of the writing of this report there
were 58 licenses issued to date for the 2010/2011 season. The clamming season in
Marblehead is historically during the months of September through April. The areas
may open later and close temporarily during the season when environmental issues
may change.

Monitoring diggers, checking water quality and testing of the clams is performed
constantly by the Board of Health, MA Division of Marine Fisheries and local
residents that have volunteered to serve as Shellfish Constables. The Town Clerk
and her staff have been very diligent in processing the paperwork for the State and
issuing licenses.

         Respectfully submitted,

         Wayne O. Attridge, Chief Shellfish Constable

         Constables:
         Douglas Aikman
         John Gregory Attridge
         Raymond Bates Jr.
         Harry Christensen, Esq.
         David Donahue
         Deborah Fadden
         Jeffrey Flynn
         R. Thomas Hamond
         Susan Hogan
         Douglas Percy




                                         209
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


           TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION

In the summer of 1989, a series of horrific hate crimes occurred at the Jewish
Community Center of the North Shore and Temple Emanu-el. The community
response to these crimes was that of outrage. At that time, a group of citizens
requested that the Board of Selectmen appoint a task force.

At their regular meeting on August 2, 1989, the Board voted to establish and
commission the Task Force against Discrimination to help fight acts of
discrimination, hatred and bigotry. Ever since, the Task Force has had a visible
presence in the town, meeting in open session on a regular basis, creating
informative programming and reacting to situations that have arisen. The
committee is appointed yearly by the Board of Selectmen and includes members of
the clergy, educators, students, the Marblehead Police Department and concerned
citizens.

Throughout the years, the Marblehead Task Force against Discrimination’s mission
has been to work toward a safe community that celebrates diversity. Marblehead is
a place where diversity is embraced and where discrimination will not be tolerated.

During 2010, Task Force members participated in the North Shore Interfaith Seder
on March 18 where Task Force Co-Chair Rev. Anne Marie Hunter received the
prestigious Leonard P. Zakim Humanitarian Award, the North Shore’s Walk for
Respect on May 23, and the Anti-Defamation League No Place for Hate Conference
at UMASS Boston on October 28. As the recipient of the James L. Rudolph
Volunteer Leadership Award, Co-Chair Helaine R. Hazlett attended the ADL
National Conference in Washington, D.C.

New members Loren Weston, student advisor at Marblehead High School and MHS
student Ben Katzman were added to the Task Force in August. The Task Force
discussed suicides among GLBT teens, the high school’s anti-bullying policy and
training, and several minor incidents of vandalism within Marblehead.

A major project launched by the Task Force in 2010 is the effort to bring “Rachel’s
Challenge” to the Marblehead community. “Rachel’s Challenge” is a program
about respect and everyday kindness that grew out of the Columbine High School
crisis and has spread to many communities across the country. Through the story of
one Columbine victim, “Rachel’s Challenge” encourages students, teachers, and all
community members to engage the issues that can divide communities and to




                                       210
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


commit to the hard work that strengthens the ties that hold communities together
and discourage events such as the Columbine High School massacre.

Loren Weston and the Team Harmony group at MHS would like to bring this
program to MHS. The TFAD voted to support this effort, to assist with fundraising
and publicity, and to provide as much help as possible to Loren and her MHS team.
For her efforts in rejuvenating Team Harmony at the high school and bringing
valuable programming to the student body, Ms. Weston will receive the ADL’s
Essex County Law and Education Day Community Service Award on May 6, 2011.

Twenty-one years after the precipitating event, the Task Force Against
Discrimination still calls on Marblehead residents, of all ages, races, classes, sexual
orientations, faiths, physical and mental abilities, and backgrounds to join with the
Task Force Against Discrimination in continuing to make Marblehead a respectful,
supportive, and inclusive community for its many and diverse citizens and visitors.

Respectfully submitted,

Helaine R. Hazlett, Co-Chair
Rev. Anne Marie Hunter, Co-Chair

Melissa Aizanman
Michael Harper
Ben Katzman
Judy Luise
Harvey Michaels
Chief Robert Picariello
Barbara Schneider
Monica Tecca
Loren Weston
Deacon John Whipple




                                         211
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                          TREE DEPARTMENT


Public shade trees located on public ways are under the jurisdiction of the Tree
Warden and the four person tree crew. The department tries to identify and reduce
tree hazards along public ways including the parks, cemeteries, and school grounds.
The department removed over one hundred and sixty dead or hazardous trees and
also removed the same amount of stumps, trimmed well over four hundred trees and
planted sixty new trees around town. Telephone calls from residents regarding tree
matters remained heavy through the spring, summer, and fall. The Department
made every effort to respond to all calls. Tree department employees also assist the
DPW with plowing and snow removal operations. Marblehead again qualified for
the National Tree City USA as designated by the National Arbor Day Foundation.
The department purchased seedlings from the Massachusetts Tree Wardens and
Foresters Association that were planted in conservation areas by the Marblehead
Conservancy and other volunteers. The department would like to thank the DPW
for all their help this past year with a special thanks to DPW Director David
Donahue and Senior Clerk Sue Hogan. I would like to thank the department’s
employees for their hard work and dedication. I would also like to thank the town
for their continued support.

Respectfully submitted,


Doug Gordon, Marblehead Tree Warden

Ed Park, Foreman
Art Beauchesne, Groundsman
Walter Leszczynski, Heavy Equipment Operator
Rob Fallon, Tree Climber/Forestry Maintenance




                                       212
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                          VETERANS’ AGENT


I hereby submit my report as Veterans Agent, Flag Officer, Veterans Burial Officer,
and Veterans Graves Registration Officer for the year ending Dec 31, 2010.

My number one duty is to the Veterans of the Town of Marblehead and their
families. I continue to attend State and Federal training sessions and seminars to
remain updated in all aspects of Veterans Affairs.

Office records for 2010 indicate that four Veterans or their families filed for
benefits under Mass General Laws, Chapter 115. This chapter of the law provides
assistance to Veterans in need.

Requests for assistance in filing for Department of Veterans Affairs Benefits
(Federal) remained high. This office has encouraged enrollment in the VA
Healthcare System. Many Marblehead Veterans have taken advantage of this health
benefit, which includes obtaining daily prescription drugs for $8.00 per month for
each medication. Casket Flags and Grave Markers were the principal Death
Benefits filed for with the Department of Veterans Affairs

Packages were sent to our service men and women deployed overseas in the WAR
ON TERROR. The Gerry Five VFA, Chaplain Lyman Rollins VFW POST 2005,
and the Mark Brings family assisted with the packages. Keep these brave men and
women in your prayers.

A total of 81 Marblehead Veterans were laid to rest between Nov 11, 2009 and Nov
11, 2010. A large percent of these men and women were World War II Veterans.
As a town and country we have an obligation to this generation of Americans.
Service to our Veterans and their families remains the most important goal of this
office.

I would like to thank Chaplain Lyman Rollins VFW Post 2005, the American
Legion Post 32, and the US Submarine Veterans, Marblehead Base for their
assistance in the affairs of this office in 2010. I would also like to thank
Marbleheader Karin Martin for her work in Memorial Park.

Respectfully submitted,

David C Rodgers, Veterans Agent




                                       213
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                WATER AND SEWER COMMISSION


The Water and Sewer Commission is pleased to submit its report for calendar year
2010. During the year our staff completed many important projects as well as
continued the planning for several new improvements to be done by the Water,
Sewer and Drain Departments.

The Water Department completed its annual maintenance and inspection program
that included painting and replacement of hydrants, water quality testing and
backflow inspection and water meter reading and meter replacement as well as the
continued installation of new radio meter-reading devices. Other programs
performed by the department include leak detection, gate valve maintenance and
replacement, water main repairs and assisting our customers with various concerns.

In July of 2010, the Water Department began a pipe cleaning and lining project.
This included work on the last of the oldest pipes in town, located on Marblehead
Neck. Water lines on Foster St., Ballast Lane, Blanchard St., Harvard St., Kimball
St. and Follet St. on the Neck and West Shore Drive from Village St. to Turner
Road were included in the project, which was completed in November. On Ruby
Terrace a 2-inch galvanized line was replaced with 4-inch ductile iron pipe.
Replacement of the Corinthian Lane water main is scheduled for spring, 2011.

The Sewer Department continued its annual maintenance and inspection program,
including the maintenance of its 28 sewer pump stations. Other projects completed
were line cleaning, root treatment and inspection of over 100 miles of sewer mains
as well as over 3,000 manholes.

The Sewer Department also completed a sewer line replacement project on Tufts
St., Ruby Ave. and Ruby Terrace. The project commenced in July and was
completed in October, 2010. Final paving of these streets is scheduled for the spring
of 2011.

The Storm Drain Department maintained over 2,000 catch basins throughout town.
Projects included the installation and rebuilding of 39 catch basins and manholes.
Repairs to the Red Gate outfall structure off Harbor Avenue were started and will be
completed during 2011. The annual cleaning of all catch basins took place during
the month of December.




                                        214
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Our office staff has once again been active, processing over 30,000 bills while
collecting nearly $7,000,000 in revenue. Other duties were maintaining and
updating house connection records, construction planning, scheduling of
appointments and addressing customer inquiries. The on-line payment program was
successfully implemented; customers can register for on-line payment at
www.marblehead.org.

It is with sadness that we note the passing of long-serving Water and Sewer
Commissioner Emerson “Brownie” Brown on February 22, 2010. Commissioner
Brown, also well-known as “Farmer Brown” for his local turkey farm and fresh
vegetable stand, was first elected to the Board in 1970 and served continually for 40
years.

It is also with both sadness (although a different type) and happiness that we report
the retirement of two long-time Water and Sewer Department employees,
Superintendent Dana Snow and Office Manager Linda Matthews, during 2010. Mr.
Snow retired in March after working for the Town for over 37 years, 27 of those as
Water and Sewer Superintendent, and Ms. Matthews, who enjoyed more than 21
years working for the Commission, followed soon after in April. The Water and
Sewer Commission and staff extend their sincerest appreciation and congratulations
to both Mr. Snow and Ms. Matthews.

To fill the big shoes left empty by Mr. Snow’s departure, Assistant Superintendent
Charles R. McCollum was elevated to the Superintendent’s position. He is quickly
growing into Mr. Snow’s shoes. Appointed to the Assistant Superintendent’s
position was Amy McHugh and Paul Jalbert was appointed Office Manager. We
congratulate Mr. McCollum and welcome Ms. McHugh and Mr. Jalbert to our staff.

We also welcomed a new member to the Water and Sewer Commission. R. Thomas
Hamond, the retired Superintendent of Recreation and Parks, was elected in the
May, 2010 Town Election to fill the seat formerly held by the late Mr. Brown.

We would like to thank all of our staff for their dedication and accomplishments
during the year. Without their help, none of the work mentioned above would have
been possible. We also extend our appreciation to the other Town Departments for
their cooperation and, last but certainly not least, to the members of the Water and
Sewer Commission for their valued guidance and expertise throughout 2010 and
their continued support in 2011.




                                        215
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Respectfully submitted,


Charles R McCollum
Superintendent


Marblehead Water and Sewer Commission
F. Carlton Siegel, P.E. (Chairman)
Wilbur E. Bassett, P.E. (Vice Chairman)
Bradford N. Freeman
John P. Doane
R. Thomas Hammond
Telephone (781) 631-0102
Fax (781) 631-2670


Charles R. McCollum, Superintendent       Amy McHugh, Assistant Superintendent


Office Staff:                                 Drain Department Employees:
Paul E. Jalbert, Office Manager               Kevin Wilson, Leader Drains
Krissey Regan, Billing Technician             William Larios, Heavy Equip Operator
Lynne DeGrandpre’, Special Clerk


Water Department Employees:                   Sewer Department Employees:
William Haskell, Special Laborer III          Mark Fulton, Special Laborer III
Gregory Burt, Water Technician                James Johnson, Mechanic Pipefitter II
John Bradshaw, Mechanic Pipefitter            Jonathan Morley, Mechanic Pipefitter
Michael Marsters, Mechanic Pipefitter         Robert Landry, Mechanic Pipefitter
David Cameron, Heavy Equip Operator           Brian Conrad, Mechanic Pipefitter
Corey Smith, Special Laborer I                Eric Hildonen, Heavy Equip Operator
Matthew Thibault, Special Laborer I           Steven Hull, Special Laborer I
Peter Dorney, Special Laborer I               Michael Atkins, Special Laborer I




                                        216
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                 WATER DEPARTMENT REPORT

1. Water Breaks                                12
2. Hydrants Replaced                           16
3. Hydrants Repaired                            6
4. New Water Service and Renewals              80
5. Inside Valves Replaced                      27
6. New Water Mains or Extensions                1
7. Water Services Repaired                     13
8. New Sprinkler Lines Added                    1
9. Frozen Meters                                6
10. Hydrants Painted                           25
11. Trouble Calls                              27
12. Radio Reader Installations                250

                 SEWER DEPARTMENT REPORT

1. Sewer Lines Cleaned                          51,739 ft
2. Drain Lines Cleaned                          500 ft
3. Wet Wells Cleaned /H2O used                  37
4. Total Water Used From Lines 1,2 & 3          128,422 gals
5. Vacuum Dig Repairs                           24
6. Lines Televised – Sewer                      750 ft
7. Service Repaired – Permits                   18
8. New Services – Permits                       18
9. Construction Repairs                         10
10. Manholes Repaired                           25
11. Pumping Stations Maintained                 28
    Repairs made include but were not limited to overhaul/replacement of
    sump pumps, motor drive couplings, seals, compressors, air lines,
    generators, computer component controls, door way access and hatch cover
    repairs along with grounds keeping. Fort Beach Station control work was
    completed.
12. Vehicles Maintained by Sewer Mechanic 23
    Three older vehicles were replaced during 2010: The Water and Sewer
    Departments each received a new Ford 350 and the Drain Department
    purchased a new Ford 550.
13. Dig Safe Mark Outs                          1,118
14. Oil Spills Into Sanitary Sewer              0
15. Footage of Sewer Lines Treated for Roots 13,142 ft




                                 217
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                        DRAIN DEPARTMENT REPORT

    1.   Catch Basins Repaired                       31
    2.   New Catch Basins                            2
    3.   New, repaired Manholes                      6
    4.   Drain Lines Cleaned                         1,000ft
    5.   Drain Lines Repaired                        4
    6.   Sump Pump Connection                        7
    7.   Inspected and maintained all town open ditches and outfalls
    8.   Drain system monitored during all snow and rain events
    9.   Graded and hot topped all drain work


  REPORT OF THE SOUTH ESSEX SEWERAGE DISTRICT
Former Water and Sewer Superintendent Dana Snow, who retired in March of 2010,
continued to serve as the Town’s representative to the South Essex Sewerage
District (SESD) through the end of 2010. We offer our appreciation to Mr. Snow
for his more-than 27 years representing the interests of Marblehead. Current
Superintendent Charles R. McCollum took over as Marblehead’s representative on
January 1, 2011.

We are pleased to report that our treatment facility performed well throughout 2010.
As in past years, the SESD staff has continued to refine the treatment methods to
assure the best level of treatment at the lowest possible cost to the member
communities and ratepayers. We recognize the employees of SESD and commend
them for a very productive and successful year.

We are pleased to answer any questions that may arise concerning our waste water
treatment facility. The Town is proud to be a member community of SESD and
looks forward to the continued operation of this clean, safe and efficient facility.

Respectfully submitted,

Dana E. Snow
(Former SESD Representative)

Charles R. McCollum
(SESD Representative)




                                       218
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                      South Essex Sewerage District
                   EXPENSES & REVENUES REPORT
                       TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD
                             Fiscal Year 2010
                    Report Prepared by Brian McNamee
                             SESD Treasurer

REVENUE
                   Method of          Percent      Marblehead       SESD
 Description    Apportionment         Of Total      Amount          Total
Assessment     FY10 Budgeted             7.85%      $ 2,102,264   $26,775,488
Revenue        Apportionment
Member         Actual                      0.00%             0     (860,000)
Refunds Paid
Chemical       District Apportions         0.00%             0              0
Reimburse-
ments
Sewer Rate     Fixed Amount                0.00%             0              0
Relief         Budgeted for
               Marblehead
               Utilization
Septage        District Apportions         7.62%        14,087       184,760
Revenue
MWPAT          Based on Cost               7.96%       621,871     7,817,098
Loan           Apportionment
Subsidies      Agreements
Interest       Actual & District           8.69%          3,856       44,392
Income,        Apportions Based
Investment     on Average Monthly
Income         UFB Balance
Energy         Actual                      7.64%          3,561       46,590
Savings
Revenue
Misc Revenue   Actual                  11.32%             1,952       17,247
Other Income
Special        District Apportions         0.00%             0         5,231
Assessment
TOTAL                                      8.07%     $2,747,592   $34,030,805
REVENUES




                                     219
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


EXPENSES
                    Method of          Percent      Marblehead    SESD
 Description     Apportionment         Of Total      Amount       Total
0 & M 2000     Based on Percentage        0.00%               0    147,857
               of Flow
O & M 3000     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0     266,277
               of Flow
O & M 4000     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      25,056
               of Flow
O & M 5000     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0     452,200
               of Flow
O & M 5001     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0           0
               of Flow
O & M 6000     Based on Percentage          7.63%        35,071    459,412
               of Flow
O & M 6001     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0           0
               of Flow
O & M 7000     Based on Percentage          8.01%       323,504   4,040,020
               of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
               Flow and Solids
O & M 7001     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0           0
               of Flow 3 - Yr. Avg.
               Flow and Solids
O & M 7050     Based on Cost                0.00%            0           0
               Apportionment
               Agreements
O & M 7100     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      12,111
               of Flow
O & M 7200     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0       9,989
               of Flow
O & M 7300     Based on Percentage     100.00%            3,826      3,826
               of Flow
O & M 7400     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      26,113
               of Flow
O & M 7500     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      10,159
               of Flow
O & M 7600     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      27,291
               of Flow




                                      220
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                    Method of          Percent      Marblehead    SESD
 Description     Apportionment         Of Total      Amount       Total
O & M 7601     Based on Percentage        0.00%               0           0
               of Flow
O & M 8010     Based on Percentage          8.01%       106,961   1,335,339
               of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
               Flow and Solids
O & M 8011     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0            0
               of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
               Flow and Solids
O & M 8020     Based on Percentage          7.42%       150,046   2,020,904
               of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
               Flow and Solids
O & M 8021     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0            0
               of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
               Flow and Solids
O & M 8030     Based on Percentage          7.63%        40,783    534,238
               of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
               Flow
O & M 8031     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0            0
               of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
               Flow
O & M 8040     Based on Percentage          8.86%       153,736   1,734,579
               of BOD
O & M 8041     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0            0
               of BOD
O & M 8060     Based on Weighted            8.03%       306,261   3,815,143
               Percentage of
               BOD/TSS
O & M 8061     Based on Weighted            0.00%            0            0
               Percentage of
               BOD/TSS
O & M 9000     Based on Percentage     100.00%          140,345    140,345
               of Flow
Special        Actual                       0.00%            0            0
Assessment

Principal –    Based on Cost                7.61%       622,903   8,182,928
Long Term      Apportionment
               Agreements




                                      221
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                     Method of         Percent      Marblehead      SESD
 Description      Apportionment        Of Total      Amount         Total
Interest –      Based on Cost             3.61%          80,980    2,243,802
Long Term       Apportionment
                Agreements
MWPAT           Based on Cost               7.96%       621,871    7,817,098
Loan            Apportionment
Subsidies       Agreements
MWPAT           Based on Cost               6.75%         8,440      125,026
Administra-     Apportionment
tive Fees       Agreements
Interest –      Based on Cost               0.00%            0             0
Short Term      Apportionment
                Agreements
Debt Expense    Based on Cost               0.00%            0             0
– Origination   Apportionment
Fees            Agreements
Lieu of Taxes   Based on Cost           11.25%           56,266      500,000
                Apportionment
                Agreements
Intergovern-    Based on Cost               0.00%            0             0
mental Fines    Apportionment
                Agreements
Stabilization   Based on Percentage         0.00%            0             0
                of 3 Yr. Avg. of
                Flow and Solids
Transfer to     Actual                      0.00%            0             0
CPF’s
Misc.           Actual                      0.00%            0             0
Expense
TOTAL                                       7.81%    $2,650,992   $33,929,713
EXPENSES


EXCESS (DEFICIENCY) OF                                 $ 96,600
REVENUES OVER EXPENSES
FOR MARBLEHEAD




                                      222
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                    ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS

The Zoning Board of Appeals met in regular monthly sessions in 2010, conducting
82 advertised hearings, granting 72 applications, denying 1 and allowing 9 to
withdraw. The Board also conducted non-advertised administrative hearings for
minor modifications to previous special permits.

At the close of 2010, Board members were Barbara Shefftz, David Tubridy, Alan
Lipkind, Bob Schaeffner and William R. Moriarty. The alternates were Christopher
Casey, Paige Hintlian and Bruce Krasker.

The Board expresses its best wishes to the family of Betsy Burke-Jacobson who
honored us with her service as an alternate member. The Board will honor her
memory.

Special acknowledgement to former Board member Karen Tenenbaum and alternate
Andrea Papanek for their fine service in the past decade.

Special thanks (in no particular order) to Andrea Flaxer, Steve Ware, Willy
Lanphear, Colleen King and Becky Curran.

Respectfully submitted,
William R. Moriarty
Chair




                                     223
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                         SCHOOL DEPARTMENT
                   MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE

                 Patricia Blackmer          Term Expires May, 2011
                 EuRim Chun                 Term Expires May, 2012
                 Jonathan Lederman          Term Expires May, 2013
                 Kathleen Leonardson        Term Expires May, 2013
                 Dick Nohelty               Term Expires May, 2011

                                ORGANIZATION
                         Chairperson      EuRim Chun
                         Vice-Chairperson Jonathan Lederman
                         Secretary        Kathleen Leonardson

                              REGULAR MEETINGS

The regular meetings of the School Committee are held in the High School Library
bi-monthly at 7:30 p.m. on the first and third Thursdays of the month except in July
and August.

                   MARBLEHEAD SCHOOLS ON THE WEB

Additional information about all Marblehead Public Schools programs can be found
on the internet site at: http://www.marbleheadschools.org

                        ADMISSIONS REQUIREMENTS

Entrance Age: Any child who will be six years of age on or before August 31 of that
school year may be admitted to the primary unit (first grade) during the month of
September. No child ineligible for the primary unit in September shall be admitted
during the school year. The minimum age for entering the kindergarten shall be five
years on or before August 31 of that school year.

Children entering school for the first time are required to present a birth certificate,
a physical exam (including vision screening for distance visual acuity and
stereopsis) completed within 12 months prior to the date of school entry, and
documentation of immunizations. All children must be immunized against polio;
diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (DTaP); measles, mumps and rubella (MMR); varicella
(chicken pox); and hepatitis B. Exemptions from immunizations are allowed under




                                         224
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Commonwealth of Massachusetts Law for either religious or medical reasons, both
of which require documentation.

                          SIGNALS FOR NO SCHOOL

No school announcements will be made over radio, television channels 4, 5 and 7,
on the Marblehead Public Schools website at http://www.marbleheadschools.org as
well as through email and phone messages with the AlertNow system. Telephone
calls should not be made to the Police or Fire Departments.

Since widely varying conditions in the various parts of Marblehead may make it
difficult to reach decisions about inclement weather conditions, parents are
requested to exercise their discretion in regard to their own children's attendance.

                           2010-11 SCHOOL HOURS
                   High School         7:55 a.m. to 2:37 p.m.
                   Middle School       8:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
                   Village School      8:00 a.m. to 2:15 p.m.
                   Glover, Gerry, Bell 8:15 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
                   Eveleth, Coffin     8:05 a.m. to 2:20 p.m.


                  SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS

The Marblehead Public Schools will complete the final year of the five year
initiation phase of the Instructional Focus with this budget. The Instructional Focus
is an instructional strategic plan designed to develop learning attitudes defined as
our students’ “Critical Spirit” in all Marblehead students. Our students continue to
excel academically, athletically and artistically. Evidence of this fact exists at
Marblehead High School selected, this year, as one of the top 25 high schools in
Massachusetts for the first time. Recently, 60% of our seniors applied for early
admission status to some of the best colleges in the country. Six students were
accepted early admission to MIT this past month, indicating in part the quality of
our senior class, our K-12 curriculum and our teachers.

The 2012 budget is our fifth level-services budget in a row, but it continues to move
forward with the completion of our Instructional Focus, especially in the area of
aggressive teacher training and development. We are specifically directing our
attention toward instructional best practices such as The Creative Classroom,
Professional Learning Community practice, Skillful Thinking methodology,




                                        225
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Inquiry-based Learning tactics, such as Socratic Seminar offerings, as well as
advanced training in Philosophy instruction, Responsive Classroom design and
Non-fiction Writing. The 2012 budget will begin the initial training phase in
Exhibition based instructional strategies. Exhibition instructional practice is the
final step in teacher training designed to result in student problem solving becoming
routine daily student practice in every classroom in all disciplines. This is an
exciting time for Marblehead schools and for Marblehead’s students. We are proud
of both our teachers and students for continuing to embrace the aforementioned
learning strategies and enthusiastically building their problem solving capabilities.

The 2012 budget proposal is $29,138,012.00, which is $690,885.00 more than the
FY11 amount of $28,447,127.00. This equals an increase of 2.4%. Once again this
year, the administration has reduced selected programs and staffing to allow the
2012 educational programs to grow. The 2012 proposed budget reflects six (6) less
administrative and staff positions for a savings of $264,000.00. This amount is used
to fund the additional positions appearing in the 2012 budget such as the two added
Spanish positions at the Village School. The majority of staff involved in these cuts
will be reassigned to open positions due to retirement. The amount of $90,000.00
of additional revenue from Special Education “in-district tuition-in” sources is
anticipated in this budget. Savings from teacher retirements also continue to
provide additional revenue of $240,000.00 necessary to move our educational
program forward. The Superintendent’s budget anticipates reduction of State aid in
the amount of 5% and also a reduction of local revenues.

The Superintendent’s draft 2012 budget funds all contractual agreements and
includes several new exciting programs. Spanish, as a World Language, is extended
throughout the entire upper elementary grades (Grs. 4-6) at the Village School.
Technology staffing and programming are funded in this budget. Our data analysis
capabilities are improved in this budget, as well as the addition of six (6) teacher
leadership stipends in grades K-6. The priorities that follow are the fundamental
budget considerations the Superintendent recommends to the School Committee for
consideration:

Class Size
Class Size is maintained at current levels in this budget. A large sixth grade moving
into our Middle School is accounted for in this budget. Our High School, which is
currently accommodating 250 or more students per grade level for the first time has
appropriate staff to accommodate acceptable student-teacher class ratios.
Maintaining appropriate class sizes continues to be our number one priority.




                                        226
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


MPS Instructional Focus Year #5 (the final implementation year):
Year #5 of our Instructional Focus is funded in the Superintendent’s proposed
budget. Teacher training and development continue to be funded with an increase
of $15,000.00; while six (6) teacher leader stipends equaling $25,000.00 for grades
K-6 also have been added. Two exciting additions to the 2012 budget include
adding two new Spanish teaching positions; one each to grades 4 and 5, which gives
us a full world language program opportunity at the Village School for the first
time.

Our Technology program adds staff, parent portal services and equipment at MHS.
A .4 keyboarding technology program is added to grade four (4) in this budget.

We will evaluate our intention and ability to offer the International Baccalaureate
Diploma Program (IB) at MHS, while introducing the I.B. Philosophy course at
MHS as a pilot program in 2011-2012.

We will allot more revenue for Math, ELA and Science supplies as we continue to
build our explicit “hands on” instructional practices in the lower grades.

Other Staffing Areas:
The 2012 budget adds time to clerical positions at the Bell and Gerry Schools, a
Guidance Specialist at the Village School and clerical and Guidance additional
hours for the MHS summer program.

The 2012 budget also adds .3 FTE sections to the Athletic Director’s position and
the Data Analyst position, as well as an increase of $13,000.00 to the lead nurse
position.

Special Education Program:
Funding our Special Education program increases continues to be challenging for
the Marblehead Public Schools. However, we are also anticipating $90,000.00 of
additional tuition-in revenue in this budget. We feel this is a conservative revenue
estimate considering our new Sped marketing program in all surrounding
communities designed to attract tuition paying students. This budget has increased
“out of district placement” costs, along with additional internal cost reduction
proposals to help fund the cost increases anticipated.

Federal Stimulus /Special Education Reimbursement Funds:
The 2012 budget does not include any Federal Stimulus “ARRA” funds, which
were “one time revenues” over the past two years. These funds were used in one




                                       227
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


time funding categories and were not utilized in any recurring expenditure
categories.

We anticipate receiving 40% State reimbursement of “Circuit Breaker” Special
Education funding instead of the typically anticipated 70% reimbursement planned
in previous years. This is our second year using more conservative anticipated
revenue estimates.

The 2012 budget continues our process of working toward fully funding summer
Special Education program salaries. The 2012 budget line for this category will
increase in the amount of $45,000.00.

Building Construction and Maintenance Projects:
School buildings and maintenance projects continue to be priorities in the District
and Town of Marblehead. The Village School Repairs Project is completing final
punch list items as I write this budget letter in December, 2010. Once again,
Marblehead completes a major building project on time and under budget. The
Village School Building Committee was able to provide our Town with a quality
building for our 2nd largest school population of 750 students, grades 4-6. Once
again, we thank Michael Rockett, Chairman of the Village Building Oversight
Committee and all the dedicated and fully committed committee BOC members:
Tony Sasso, Town Administrator; Brian Salzer, MPS Business Administrator;
Richard Matthews, MPS Facilities Director; Michael Hanna, Village School
Principal; Danielle Cherry, Assistant Principal Village School; Rob Dana,
Community at large member, Chairman of BOC-I, member of BOC-II, (retired SC
member) (volunteer); Amy Drinker, Community at large member, member of BOC-
I and BOC-II, member of Glover BC (retired SC member) (volunteer); EuRim
Chun, SC Chairman; Joe Breen, Community at large member (volunteer);
Architectural firm of Symmes, Maini & Mckee Associates. Joel Seeley, Architect;
Dan Bragg, Architect; Municipal Building Consultants, Inc., Patrick Saitta,
President, Chuck Adam, Owner’s Project Manager; and past member Connie
Cooney, Village School teacher, (volunteer). These people are deserving of our
thanks and praise. Well done!

Glover School Building Committee:
The Glover School Building Committee has been working very hard completing
preliminary design work and reducing the anticipated costs of the Glover/Eveleth
School Project. The Committee will present the Town meeting in May with their
recommended project design and cost estimate. Chair person Patricia Blackmer,




                                       228
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


recently joined by co-chair Bob Schaeffer, along with the other hard working GSBC
members deserve recognition for their hard work over the last two years.

We will maintain our budget maintenance lines at current levels anticipating the
need for additional maintenance especially in our older PreK-3 elementary
buildings.

This is my final budget presentation because of planned retirement in June, 2011;
therefore, please accept my thanks to all of you and to the Town of Marblehead for
allowing me to serve as your school Superintendent. I consider myself fortunate to
have been allowed to serve this great community and wonderful school system. I
know that you all recognize the quality and dedication of the faculty, staff and
administration in the Marblehead schools, but please allow me this opportunity to
say thank you to all of them for their dedication and commitment to the children of
our community. They are special people deserving of the Town’s continued
support.


Respectively submitted,
Dr. G. Paul Dulac
Superintendent of Schools


               MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE

The Marblehead School Committee’s three primary responsibilities are the hiring
and supervision of the Superintendent of Schools, the approval and oversight of the
Marblehead Public School district’s budget, and the creation and oversight of school
policy. Working closely with Superintendent Dr. G. Paul Dulac to optimize the
appropriate distribution of the school budget, the School Committee strives to
balance the needs of individual students, schools, and programs with the overall
direction and priorities of the district, but to live within the town’s financial means.
The School Committee works in partnership with the town, including the
Marblehead civic community, parents, students, teachers and school administration
to make sound and sustainable educational decisions.

The School Committee continues to support the development of the Critical Spirit in
all our students to ensure that they have the necessary skills to pursue their goals in
the competitive global market: the mastery of disciplines, creativity, inquisitiveness,
a truth-seeking disposition and a keenness of mind. This commitment distinguishes




                                         229
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Marblehead as one of the top performing school districts in Massachusetts. In the
fall of 2008, the School Committee revised its vision and mission statements to
reflect Critical Spirit/Instructional Focus as the cornerstones for its decision-making
guidelines. We continue to support the implementation of the Instructional Focus
within our district.

At this time, the School Committee is engaged in a search for a new superintendent
to replace retiring Superintendent Dr. Dulac. The School Committee appreciates the
efforts of the Superintendent Search Screening Committee which has forwarded a
slate of three highly qualified candidates to the School Committee for consideration.
Interviews are scheduled for the first week in February.

The School Committee’s budget deliberations for FY12 are based on maintaining
level services and meeting current contractual obligations. State cuts to local aid
and circuit breaker credits exacerbate the pressure on both the town and school
budgets. Across the state, municipalities face escalating health insurance costs
coupled with limited revenue sources, creating an austere fiscal climate for
collective bargaining. The current Marblehead teachers’ contract expires in August,
2012. The Marblehead Education Association and the School Committee will focus
on maintaining the balance between offering competitive salaries while living
within the town’s financial means. The teachers continue to provide a high caliber
education to our students. The School Committee’s goal is to keep educators’
salaries competitive to attract and retain high caliber professionals while
maintaining quality educational services.

The School Committee continues to address its building facility deficiencies and
technology needs through diligent maintenance and carefully planned capital
projects, including the following initiatives currently underway:

• The Village School: The Village School Repairs Project begun in February
  2009 is currently completing final punch list items. This follows the passage of
  a debt exclusion override in June 2008, after the Massachusetts School Building
  Authority (MSBA) qualified the $21.7M Village School repair project for up to
  40% state reimbursement of eligible costs in May of the same year. Once again,
  Marblehead is completing a major building project, this time a complex repair
  project, on time and under budget. We thank Michael Rockett, the former chair
  of the Village Building Oversight Committee (VBOC) and all the dedicated
  VBOC members for successfully completing Phase I (Village School’s one-story
  wing) and Phase II (the three story building) of this project. Amy Drinker
  (VBOC member and former SC chair) succeeds Michael Rockett to chair the




                                         230
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


  current VBOC as the SC requests bids for additional re-pointing of bricks and
  replacement of windows in the 1967 wing to ensure that the integrity of the
  building and the work of the repair project is maintained.

2) Glover School: The Glover School Building Committee, chaired by School
   Committee member, Patricia Blackmer and community volunteer member, Bob
   Schaeffner, AIA, continued the Glover Feasibility Study throughout the fall and
   into the winter, working diligently to bring a revised plan for a new Glover
   School for 425 students in kindergarten through grade 3 before the town. The
   new school will consolidate the three aging buildings (Lower Glover 1916,
   Upper Glover 1948 and Eveleth 1958). The scaled back design and total project
   budget of $25.9M will be presented to the Massachusetts School Building
   Authority in March for approval at the Project Scope and Budget hearing. The
   MSBA has committed to a 40% reimbursement rate for eligible expenses. A
   public relations effort is underway to inform the community about the project
   and raise awareness of the significant need to build a new school. The School
   Committee will present the revised design and cost to the Town in May 2011
   with a debt exclusion override for funding to follow in June 2011.

3) Gerry School: This facility, now 105 years old, is aging gracefully but showing
   its age nonetheless. Ongoing work is necessary to address securing exterior
   wood components, re-pointing portions of the brick façade, and fixing leaks in
   the slate roof. The School Department will continue to be a responsible steward
   for this school in anticipation of the time when the Gerry School can be
   submitted to the MSBA as the district’s priority; then the collaborative process
   between the district and the MSBA will identify the most financially responsible
   and educationally sound solution to its facility needs. As part of the MSBA’s
   requirements and process to keep the status of this building updated, the school
   department recently submitted a refreshed Statement of Interest (SOI) for the
   Gerry School.

4) Technology Master Plan Committee: Our district’s technology within the
   schools continues to age and require updating and maintenance. In order to more
   effectively meet these challenges, we established a Technology Sub-Committee
   of educators, students, parents and community members to study these needs and
   develop a Master Plan, a blueprint document with both short-term and long-
   range goals and timelines for addressing the district’s on-going technology
   needs.




                                       231
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


The Marblehead School Committee is appreciative of the generosity of the many
parent groups, community members and local businesses that support our schools.
The Friends of Marblehead Public Schools continues to provide significant financial
support for innovative education through its grants. Other private foundations also
provide significant support to school programs. The School Committee remains
fully committed to providing a quality education for Marblehead’s students, while
delivering a fiscally responsible budget to the taxpayers. Public education is a
responsibility that challenges us to strive for excellence within our community’s
fiscal means, accessing private, state and federal funds whenever possible.

                                             Respectfully submitted,

                                             EuRim Chun, Chairman
                                             Marblehead School Committee


             MARBLEHEAD PUBLIC SCHOOLS PERSONNEL
                      ADMINISTRATION


Name                               Position                            Telephone
Dr. G. Paul Dulac         Superintendent of Schools                    639-3141
         Carmen Darisse            Supt. Administrative Assistant
Brian Salzer              Business Manager                             639-3140
         Kerry O’Shaughnessy       Personnel Secretary
         Christine Curtin          Payroll Secretary
         Mary Valle                Bookkeeper
         Kathy Gallagher           Accounts Payable Secretary
         Amanda Maniaci            Clerical Para
Robert Bellucci           Dir. of Student Services and                 639-3148
                                   Program Accountability
         Joya Pezzuto              Spec. Ed. Secretary
Ken Weinstein                      High School Principal               639-3100
         Margot Ivers              Principal’s Secretary
Kristina Kyles            HS Asst. Principal of Instruction            639-3100
                                   & Curriculum (.5)
Sean McNiff               HS Asst. Principal
         Anne Bontaites            HS Asst. Principals’ Secretary
Elizabeth Moore           Middle School Principal                      639-3120
         Donna Carey               Principal’s Secretary




                                       232
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Kilmer Sweazy            Middle School Assistant Principal         639-3120
Michael Hanna            Village School Principal                  639-3159
         Maryann McKie            Principal’s Secretary
Danielle Cherry          Village School Assistant Principal        639-3159
Tom Desjardins           Bell School Principal                     639-3170
         Gayle Louisos            Principal’s Secretary
Sean Satterfield         Coffin/Gerry Schools’ Principal           639-3180
         Linda Mills              Principal’s Secretary
Mary Devlin              Glover/Eveleth Schools’ Principal         639-3190
         Barbara Hawlena          Principal’s Secretary
Mark Tarmey              Athletic Director                         639-3100
         Patricia Magee           Secretary Athletic Dept.
Francois Fils-Aime       METCO Director                            639-3100
Beth Delforge            Fine Arts Curriculum Director             639-3100
Kristina Kyles           Curriculum Director Coordinator (.5)      639-3146
Sue Gravel               K-6 ELA & World Cultures Coordinator      639-3159
Kathy Comeau             Technology Director                       639-3100
Anne Scott               Lead Nurse                                639-3147
Richard Matthews         Director of Facilities                    639-3120
Richard Kelleher         Food Services Director                    639-3120
Karen Bourgeault         Grants Coordinator                        639-3148
Katherine Farrell        Data Specialist                           639-3160
Patricia Armstrong       Autism Specialist                         639-3143
Paul Tentindo            High School Special Ed Chairperson        639-3110
Janine Glabicky          Sped Chair Inclusion Grds.4-8             639-3120
Maureen Smith            Sped Chair Special Programs PreK-8        639-3148
Nancy Charest            Early Childhood Coord. and                639-3150
                                  Sped Chair Inclusion PreK-3

                           FACULTY AND STAFF

Name                                      Current Assignment

Adams, Diana                              Custodian
Adams, Bethany                            PACE
Addis, David                              Tutor, Sped
Agostini-Sheridan, Susan                  Tutor, Reading
Alla, Joyce                               Tutor, Title I Reading
Alling, Matthew                           FL Latin
Alves, Lisa                               Para, Sped & Lunch




                                    233
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Anderson, Martha                        Cafeteria
Andrews, Lisa                           Para, Sped
Andrews, Laura                          Tutor, Sped ABA
Angelopolus, Adam                       Grade 6
Antonucci, Deborah                      Sped, 7-8 Lang Based
Archer, Jillian                         Psychologist
Armstrong, Patricia                     Sped, Autism Specialist
Arnould, Carol                          Grade 2 Substitute
Arthur, Elena                           Nurse
Audibert, Kathryn                       Cafeteria
Babbitt, Diane                          Grade 1
Bach, Janet                             Sped Integ 2
Bailey, Marguerite                      Cafeteria
Baker, Amie                             Phys Ed
Balboni, Robert                         Custodian
Barrell, Maribeth                       Sped, Res Room
Barrett, Melissa                        Tutor, Reading
Barry, Judith                           Cafeteria
Bartlett, Paul                          Custodian
Bartlett, Katherine                     Para, Sped
Barton, O'Malley                        Math
Battle, Jennifer                        Guidance Counselor
Beaulieu, Judith                        Art
Beckman, Rachel                         Grade 1
Beechwood, Justin                       Tutor, Sped
Belli, Natalie                          Gr 5 Lang Arts/SS
Bellucci, Robert                        Director of Student Services
Benton, Danielle                        Tutor, ABA
Berg, Robin                             Grade 2
Bergeron, Leroy                         Custodian
Bergeron, Kerry                         Grade 2
Bernhardt, Terri                        Psychologist
Bettencourt, Jason                      Tutor, Sped
Betts, Andrew                           Tutor, Sped
Bial, Lisa                              Tutor, Wilson Reading
Billings, Jennifer                      English/Social Studies Gr 7
Bishop, Kathleen                        Tutor, Sped
Bishop, Kevin                           Para, Sped STEPS
Blake, Constance                        Grade 1
Blanchard, Gianna                       Grade 2




                                  234
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Blodgett, Amanda                         Grade 6 Math/Science
Bontaites, Anne                          Secretary, High School
Bouchard, Jacqueline                     Tutor, Sped
Bourgeault, Karen                        Grant Coord/Sped Secretary
Bourgeault, Anna                         Para, Kdg. Sped
Bowden, Catherine                        Para, Kindergarten
Bowden, Denise                           Math, Gr 7
Bowen, Adam                              Grade 3
Bowler, Kathleen                         Grade 3
Boyce, Leslie                            Para, Sped
Brand, Rebecca                           K-3 Reading Specialist
Branham, Kristy                          Behavior Specialist(Bell)
Breed, Mary                              Phys Ed
Breed, Nancy                             Para, Clerical.5 Kdg .5 Para
Brenner, Nicole                          Sped
Broughton, Alison                        Para, Sped
Bruett, Meghann                          Grade 3
Buono, Anna                              English
Buonopane, Kathy                         Computer Support
Buonopane, Susan                         Sped, 8 Inclusion
Burke, Pamela                            Gr 7/8 Behavior Specialist
Bushman, Molly                           Tutor, Title I Math
Butters, Bryan                           Social Studies
Butterworth, Susan                       Grade 8 English
Byrne, Katherine                         Biology .2
Cacciola, Mario                          Social Studies
Calahan, Robin                           Para, Sped
Callaghan, Tawny                         Science, Grade 7
Campbell, Pamela                         Para, Sped
Carey, Donna                             Secretary, MS Principal
Carey, Cathy                             Tutor, Sped
Cason, Sandra                            Para, Clerical
Castoldi, Catherine                      Gr 9 Res Room
Cavanagh, Maureen                        Gr 5/6 Language Based
Cecere, Michael                          Phys Ed
Cefalo, Carla                            Health
Chacon, Fabio                            Custodian
Chalek, Wendy                            Tutor, Wilson
Chalifour, Edythe                        Cafeteria
Charest, Nancy                           Early Child. Coord/Sped Chair




                                   235
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Chavez, Jennifer                     Latin
Chaykowski, Christine                Guidance Counselor
Cherry, Danielle                     Assistant Principal
Christensen, Henry                   Tech Ed
Ciccone, Amy                         Para, Clerical
Clark, Lora                          Grade 4
Clayman, Sally                       Para, STEPS
Clements, Scott                      Custodian
Clough, Patrice                      English
Clough, Linda                        Para, Sped
Coakley, Tara                        Tutor, Sped
Cohen, Donna                         Para, Sped
Cohen, Carolyn                       Para, Sped
Cohen, Craig                         Tutor, Sped ABA
Cohen, Rebecca                       Tutor, Math
Colby, Stephanie                     Library Media Specialist
Coleman, Rosalind                    Para, Sped & Lunch
Coles, Martha                        Para, Lunch
Colfer, Robert                       Social Studies
Comeau, Kathleen                     Technology Director
Comeau, Ronald                       Maint, Electrician
Comins, Brenda                       Cafeteria
Condon, Michael                      TIDES Grade 6
Conley, Karen                        Grade 3
Convery, Lauren                      Tutor, Sped
Costa, Jocelyn                       Gr 4 Academic Skills
Costonis, Christina                  Grade 6
Cowan, Judith                        Tutor, Sped
Coyle, Carolyn                       Kindergarten
Criswell, Maryann                    English
Croke, Deborah                       ABA/Home Tutor
Cronin, Lenore                       Kindergarten
Crosby, Rosemary                     Nurse
Crowley, Brian                       Social Studies
Culhane-Hermann, Catherine           Nurse
Cullen, Deborah                      Nurse
Cunningham, Kristen                  Para, Lunch
Curtin, Christine                    Payroll
D'Amelio, Danielle                   Kindergarten
D'Amour, Eileen                      Music




                               236
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Dana, Gregory                        Math
Darci, Maureen                       Kindergarten
Darisse, Carmen                      Secretary, Admin Asst to Supt
Dartley Rocco, Maura                 Wellness
Davidson, Gail                       Cafeteria
Davis-Allan, Ann                     Sped, 7 Inclusion
Dawes, Edmund                        Science, Engineering
Dawes, Elizabeth                     Sped, Acad Skills
DeBerardinis, Debora                 Physical Therapy Assistant
Deiana, Dawna                        Special Education
Delano, Judith                       Para, Lunch
Delforge, Beth                       CD, Fine Arts
Denis, Margaret                      Cafeteria
Desjardins, Thomas                   Principal
Devanney, Amanda                     Guidance Counselor
Devlin, Mary                         Principal
Dewing, James                        Custodian, Asst Head
Dewing, Diane                        Cafeteria
Dexter, Lesley                       Tutor, Sped
Dickenson, Stephen                   Math-Title I
DiFillippo, Katherine                Tutor, 504
DiGiammarino, Jennifer               Tutor, Math
DiGiovanni, Marisa                   Para, Lunch
Dillon, Robert                       English
Dixon, Lelia                         Grade 4
Djelassi, Erin                       Grade 5 ELA/Social Studies
Doben, Maggie                        Grade 2
Dodge, Elizabeth                     Tutor, Sped
Donaldson, Lindsay                   Social Studies
Doughman, Cathy                      Para, Lunch/Library
Douglas, Elizabeth                   Tutor, Gr 6 Inclusion
Douglass, James                      Custodian
Dow, Brian                           Art .8FTE
Drummond, Ellen                      Grade 1
Duffy, Brianne                       Spanish
Duffy, Amy                           Grade 2
Dulac, G.                            Superintendent
Eaton, Allison                       Guidance Counselor
Edwards, Kathleen                    Tech Ed/Family Consumer
Eisenhower, Kay                      Grade 8




                               237
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Elmer, Kara                             Guidance Counselor
Elterich, Kristen                       Psychologist
Emond, Christine                        Tutor, Therapeutic
Ericsson, Thomas                        Science, Biology
Erikson, Melissa                        Grade 3
Erskine, Kimberly                       Physical Therapist
Fairbanks, Lee-Anne                     Grade 1
Fallon, Lois                            Secretary, Guidance
Fargo, Eric                             Phys Ed
Farrell, Katherine                      Data Specialist
Feins, Robin                            English
Ferris, Kathryn                         Band
Ferris, Linda                           Para, Kdg./Lunch
Fidler, Grace                           Math Tutor
Fils-Aime, Francois                     METCO Director
Finnegan, Jennifer                      Sped, Res Room .5
Finn-Welch, Ellen                       Spch&Lang Therapist
Fiore, Heidi                            Para, Sped
Fischer, Susan                          Inclusion
Fishman, Lindsay                        Grade 5
Fitzgerald, Cheryl                      Cafeteria Van Driver
Fitzgerald, Judith                      Cafeteria
Flynn, Bridget                          Tutor, Gr 6 Inclusion
Forero, Martha                          Custodian
Forward, Maura                          Grade 4
Foye, Kristy                            Strings, 4-12
Frankel, Dara                           Tutor, Reading
Frankhouser, Joann                      Psychologist
Fraser, Holly                           Music
Frawley, Patricia                       Sped, PK-K SAILS
Freedman, Cara                          Para, Special Education
Freeto, June                            Cafeteria
Friedman, Amy                           Speech & Lang Pathologist
Friedrich, Jennifer                     Chemistry
Futcher, Edward                         Math
Galanxhi, Tatiana                       Cafeteria
Gallagher, Kathy                        Accounts Payable
Gallinelli, Bethany                     Tutor, Sped
Gallinelli, Robert                      Grade 7 Science
Garrett, Karen                          Tutor, Sped




                                  238
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Garry, Benjamin                        Language Based
Gaskell, Marian                        Tutor, Sped
Gatchell, Douglas                      Custodian Nights
Gauthier, Allan                        Guidance Counselor
Gay, Betsy                             Kindergarten
Geary, Joan                            Science
Geraghty, Anne                         Spch&Lang Asst
Giardi, Michael                        Math
Gibbons, Eileen                        Para, Lunch
Gilbert, Rebecca                       Sped, Inclusion
Gilman, Gwen                           French
Glabicky, Janina                       Sped Chair Inclusion Gr 4-8
Goldner, Paul                          Physics
Goodwin, Josene                        Cafeteria
Goodwin, Darlene                       Para, Sped
Gora, Diane                            Grade 1
Gorman, Kelly                          Tutor, Sped
Gravel, Susan                          CD-K-8 ELA & K-6 World Cultures
Graziano, Angela                       Grade 2
Greeley, Elizabeth                     Cafeteria
Green, Pamela                          Sped Transitional Program
Greenberg, Mindi                       Spanish
Guerrido, Annelly                      Tutor, Sped
Guider, F.                             Math
Gunter, Cassandra                      METCO Bus Monitor/clerical
Gurman, Martha                         FL Spanish .8FTE
Guthartz, Randy                        Art
Guttadauro, Jae                        FL Spanish
Haley, Karen                           Tutor, Math/Reading
Halks, Judith                          Library Media Specialist
Hall, Phyllis                          Cafeteria
Hall, Faith                            Grade 3
Halvorsen, Alice                       Grade 6
Hamilton, Anne                         Para, METCO Clerical
Hanifey, Patricia                      Para, Clerical
Hanna, Michael                         Principal
Hanson, Cara                           Music
Harmon, Paul                           English
Hart, Mary Ellen                       Literacy Academic Coach
Haskell, William                       Custodian




                                 239
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Hastings, Rebecca                    Para, Kdg and Lunch
Hawkes, Charesah                     Sped Inclusion Grade 5
Hawlena, Barbara                     Secretary
Hawley, Tanya                        Supported Grade 1
Hecht, Elizabeth                     Kindergarten
Heenan, Brian                        Science, Biology
Heller, Jonathan                     Grade 6
Herchenhahn, Mary                    Art, Elementary .8FTE
Herrick, Cheryl                      Sped, 9 Resource Room
Hertz, Amy                           Para, Sped
Higgins, Thomas                      English
Hill, Jennifer                       Custodian
Hirshberg, Matthew                   Social Studies
Hobson, Alexandra                    Grade 5
Holbrook, Susan                      Sped Res Room
Holtzman, Sally                      Tutor, Special Education
Hughes, Anna                         Tutor, Math
Hughes, Kenneth                      Custodian/Bus Driver
Humphrey, Melissa                    Social Studies
Hyte, Alyson                         Para Math/Science
Ingram, Casey                        Grade 3
Introini, Jessica                    Grade 4
Ivers, Margot                        Secretary to the Principal
Jackson, Jacklyn                     Cafeteria
Jalbert, Jean                        Custodian, Head
Janock, Heidi                        Grade 2
Jesoraldo, Christine                 Para, Sped
Johnson, Beth                        Grade 2
Johnson, Carol                       Social Worker
Johnston, Elisa                      Tutor, Sped
Jones, Bethan                        English
Jones-Tentindo, Marylyn              Para, Kdg/Lunch
Joyce, Michael                       Permanent Substitute
Juncker, Henry                       Social Studies
Kakulu, Cyril                        METCO Liaison
Kalfin, Gale                         Sped Grade 11 Resource
Kalpin, David                        Math
Kaltsas, Eleni                       Cafeteria
Kameras, Maria                       Technology Ed .5FTE
Kamin, Shelley                       Sped Clerk




                               240
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Kannally, Timothy                    Grade 4
Karns, Brigitte                      Grade 8
Kass, Debra                          COTA
Kavanagh, Joan                       Sped, Lang Based
Kelleher, Richard                    Food Service Director
Kelly, Liam                          Custodian
Kennedy, Patricia                    Cafeteria
Keroack, Maria                       Tutor, ELL
Knight, Katherine                    Para, Kdg and Lunch
Kolsky, Robert                       Custodian
Koopmann, Amelia                     Grade 2
Korodi, Nicole                       Gr 6 Math/Science
Kraft, Ali                           Tutor, Sped
Kritikos, Alexis                     Tutor, Sped
Kunzer, Julie                        STEPS Grades 4-5
Kuszmar, Linda                       Para, Clerical
Kyles, Kristina                      HS Asst Prin of Inst & Curr
Lallas, Catherine                    Guidance Counselor
Lamby, Juanita                       Guidance Counselor
Land, Howard                         Bus Driver/Custodian
Landergan, Catherine                 Tech Ed
Landry, Holly                        Tutor, ABA
Lane, Cortney                        Sped
Lavender, Michael                    Phys Ed
Lavoie, Susan                        Tutor, Reading
Lavoie, Scott                        Custodian
Leap, Jeanette                       Para, Kdg and Lunch
Lebicz, Samantha                     Para, Sped
LeBlanc, JoAnne                      Para, Clerical
LeBlanc, Mary                        Grade 6
L'Ecuyer, Lindsey                    Biology
LeFleur, Sandra                      Sped, Int Preschool
Legget, Donna                        Para, Sped
Legro, Philip                        Custodian
LeGrow, Tara                         COTA substitute
Lehman, Karen                        Photography
Lemieux, Jody                        Tutor, Reading
Lemieux, Robert                      Custodian
Leslie, Margery                      Tutor, Sped
Little, Luana                        Grade 7




                               241
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Lonergan, Barbara                      Para, 1:1 Sped
Long, Glenn                            Custodian, Head
Lothrop, Janet                         Para, Sped, Therapeutic
Louisos, Gayle                         Secretary to the Principal
Lovely, Laura                          Grade 7
Lovenberg, Erin                        Para, Lunch
Luise, Judy                            Adjustment Counselor
Lutwak, Elizabeth                      Library Media Specialist
Lydon, Maria                           Para, Kdg/Lunch
Maag, Tracy                            Permanent Substitute
MacDonald, Melissa                     Para, Grade 7
Mace, Richard                          Custodian
Mace, Jayne                            Para, Science Lab
Mack, Gail                             Inclusion Teacher
Magana, Elmer                          Spanish
Magee, Patricia                        Secretary/Athletic
Mahoney, Erica                         Grade 4
Maney, Martha                          Para, PreK
Maniaci, Amanda                        Para, Payroll/Clerical
Margolis, Linda                        Title I
Marks, Lindsay                         Social Studies
Martin, Jermain                        Academic Coach
Matson, Alexandra                      Spanish Grade 6
Matthews, Richard                      Facilities Director
Matuza, Sarah                          Grade 7 Math
McCabe, Sarah                          Psychologist
McCarron, Nora                         Psychologist
McCarthy, Laura                        Grade 2
McGrath, Kristen                       Nurse
McGrath, Danielle                      Phys Ed
McGuinnes, Melissa                     Grade 1
McGurrin, Susan                        Tutor Title I
McIntosh, John                         Phys Ed
McKanas, Lynda                         Grade 4
McKeever, Charles                      Custodian, Head
McKie, Maryann                         Secretary to the Principal
McLaughlin, Janice                     Cafeteria
McLean, Gordon                         Math
McMahon, Julie                         Grade 6 Language Arts
McMahon, Maura                         Grade 3




                                 242
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


McNamee, Kathleen                    Access Program
McWilliams, Laurence                 Tutor, Sped
Mello, Rena                          Special Education
Mellor, Margaret                     Para, Kdg/Lunch
Merrill, Melissa                     Tutor, Reading
Michaud, Maria                       Para, Sped/Lunch
Miles, Mary                          Grade 6
Miller, Joan                         Sped, 7 Inclusion
Millett, Michael                     Technology Network Manager
Mills, Linda                         Secretary to the Principal
Minigiello, MaryBeth                 Para, Kdg/Lunch
Mitchell, Emily                      Tutor, Sped
Moore, Elizabeth                     Principal
Moretto, Denise                      Psychologist
Morley-Zender, Susan                 Tutor, Sped/ELL
Morneau, Albert                      Maint, General
Moses-Farmer, Barbara                Secretary
Moss, Maria                          Grade 1
Mullarkey, Tracie                    Para, Sped
Murphy, Philip                       Phys Ed
Murphy, Lisa                         Grade 5 Language Arts
Murphy, Jane                         Physical Therapist
Murray, Dawn                         Nurse
Nash, Laura                          Grade 5
Neilson, Paula                       Kindergarten
Nelson, Todd                         Para, PACE
Nesbitt, Tracy                       Tutor, Reading
Neumann, Carol                       Tutor, Math
Newsome, Jeffrey                     Guidance Counselor
Ngole, Betsy-Lynn                    Para, Sped
Nicosia, Jennifer                    Para, Sped
Nohelty, Tammy                       Art .8FTE
Norman, Kristen                      Secretary, Student Activities
November, Donna                      Grade 3
Oakley, Sarah                        Tutor, Math
O'Connor, Michelle                   Para, Grade 1 1:1
O'Flynn, Judith                      Kindergarten
O'Reilly, Debora                     Science, Chemistry
Orlen, Gerald                        Academic Coach
Orlen, Iris                          Academic Coach




                               243
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


O'Shaughnessy, Kerry                 Secretary/Personnel
Pagano, Justin                       Computer Support
Page, Susan                          Para, Lunch
Page, Carolan                        Tutor, Math
Page, Harriett                       Science, Chemistry
Pasackow, Noah                       Grade 7 Social Studies
Pasquini, Monika                     Spanish
Payne, John                          Marine Technology
Pedro, Christopher                   Para, Sped
Percy, Kristin                       Permanent Substitute
Perez, Lynne                         Spanish
Perlow, Sheryl                       Tutor, Sped
Perroni, Brenda                      Grade 1
Peterson, Valerie                    Music
Pezzuto, Joya                        Secretary to Sped Dir.
Phillips, Tammy                      Tutor, Sped
Phillips, Raymond                    Custodian
Piccini, Donna                       Para, Lunch
Pierce, Karen                        Sped Integ 3
Pierce, Stephen                      Art
Pillsbury, Susan                     Spch&Lang Path
Pittman, Alexander                   Physics
Pittore, Patrica                     Grade 2
Poisson, Frances                     Para, Clerical
Portnoy, Andrea                      Academic Coach
Price, Dawn                          Para, Lunch
Pruett, Elizabeth                    Grade 4
Pugh, Annie                          Grade 5
Purdin, Joy                          Grade 4
Queval, Pascale                      FL French
Quigley, Suzanne                     Tutor, Sped
Quillen, Lisa                        Grade 1
Quinn, Janet                         Tutor, Reading
Racki, James                         Custodian, Head
Raimer, Jennifer                     Grade 6
Raimo, Paulette                      Para, Preschool
Ranta, Mary Ellen                    Tutor, Sped
Ray, Paula, Para                     Grade 5 inclusion
Reardon, Meredith                    Guidance Counselor
Reiss, Susan                         Tutor, ELL




                               244
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Restaino, Gina                           Sped, Access
Reulbach, Christina                      Tutor, Math
Reynolds, Katherine                      Science, Grade 8
Ricardo-Gil, Joan                        Foreign Language
Richards, James                          Custodian
Ring, Jordan                             Para, Sped 1:1
Riolo, Liza Ann                          Latin
Ritchie, Daniel                          Social Studies
Rivera, Jessica                          Para, Lunch
Rivera, Hope                             Para, Sped and Lunch
Robles, Javier                           Custodian
Rochford, Paige                          Occupational Therapist
Rodier, Jennifer                         Biology
Roeder, Amanda                           Music
Roeser, Kathleen                         Tutor, Reading
Rombach, Jeannie                         Tutor, Sped
Ross, Killeen                            Grade 4
Ross, William                            Van Driver/Custodian
Rothenberg, Suzanne                      Para, 1:1 Grade 2
Rotman, Sandra                           Phys Ed
Roy, Joyce                               Grade 4
Rudloff, James                           Sped, HS Therapeutic
Rudzinski, Elizabeth                     Kindergarten, Integrated
Rumson, Janet                            Grade 5
Ryan, Micheline                          Math
Ryan, Connor                             English
Ryan, Nicole                             Art
Rydzewski, Kenneth                       Sped, 12 Resource Room
Salzer, Brian                            Business Manager
Sarnevitz, Shari                         Nurse
Satterfield, Sean                        Principal
Schaffnit, James                         Grade 7
Schauer, Rachel                          Tutor, Reading
Schiller, Barbara                        Tutor, Reading
Schwartz, Scott                          Tutor, Sped
Scott, Anne                              Lead Nurse
Scribner, Deborah                        Custodian, Head
Scribner, Robert                         Custodian, Head
Sevinor, Meryl                           Kindergarten
Shapiro, Mary                            Grade 1




                                   245
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Shatford, Susan                       Tutor, Sped/Lunch
Sheehan, Amy                          Secretary, Sped
Sheridan, Peter                       Shop, Carpentry
Shevory, Sally                        Grade 3
Sholds, Kristinia                     English
Shull, Willard                        Grade 7
Simard, Christine                     Sped Van Monitor
Skalaban, Janice                      Business
Slattery, Margaret                    Sped Admin Assistant
Slattery-Sumner, Marjorie             Cafeteria
Sliney, Candice                       Spanish
Smith, Kathryn                        Grade 8
Smith, Nancy                          Grade 3
Smith, Karen                          Tutor, Reading
Smith, Maureen                        Sped Chair Spec Programs
Smullin, Rachel                       Sped, TIDES
Snow, Lyn                             Behavior Specialist
Softic, Gavin                         Tutor, ABA
Soghomonian, Allison                  Library Media Specialist
Sojka, Szymon                         STEPS
Sommerstein, Ann                      Para, Sped
Song, Kendra                          Math
Soucy, Wendy                          Senior Project
Spear, Susan                          Para, Academic Skills
Spillane, Carol                       Kindergarten
Spinale, David                        Custodian, Van Driver
Steadman, Joanne                      Phys Ed
Steinberg, Sari                       Spch&Lang Path
Stelljes, Lia                         Grade 8 Science
Stevens, Caron                        Para, Clerical
Stoddard, Joseph                      Music
Stoll, Gayle                          Spch&Lang Path
Stomatuk, Joan                        Business
Stonecipher, Timothy                  Guidance Counselor
Stout, Rebecca                        Music
Stronach, Tara                        Tutor
Stuart, Bridget                       Tutor, Sped
Sugarman, Lisa                        Tutor, Reading
Sumner, Gregory                       Custodian
Sweazy, Kilmer                        Assistant Principal .5




                                246
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Taranto, Beth                       Para, Sped and Lunch
Tarmey, Mark                        Athletic Director .5FTE
Tatterfield, Martha                 Cafeteria
Taverna-Dennis, Barbara             Sped Mod Sped Needs
Tejada, Lynne                       Cafeteria and Lunch Para
Tentindo, Paul                      Sped Chairperson
Terpos, Katherine                   Health
Thomas, Barbara                     Kindergarten
Thompson, Cynthia                   Para, Fine Arts Clerical
Thorne, Nancy                       Tutor, Title I Math
Thornton, Susan                     Academic Skills
Tirelli, Robert                     Music
Tobey, Gregory                      Para, Sped
Tobin, Catherine            Para, Kdg/Lunch.5/clerical .5
Todd, Caroline                      English
Trainor, Stephanie                  Grade 6
Traynor, Veronica                   Para, Sped
Treff, Maria                        Tutor, Sped
Trudeau, Dana                       Grade 5
Tully, Frances                      Grade 1
Turcotte, Lindsay                   Grade 3
Turgel, Shoshannah                  Library Media Specialist
Valle, Mary                         Bookkeeper
Venezia, Stephen                    Social Studies
Volpe, Stephen                      Grade 5
Vona, Mark                          Math
Wachtel, Kyle                       Phys Ed
Wahtera, Philo                      Grade 2
Wales, G. Herrick                   Grade 4 Inclusion
Wales, Susan                        Grade 10 Resource Room
Walker, David                       Tutor, Sped
Wallace, Anthony                    Physics
Ward, Laura                         Grade 6 LA/Social Studies
Warren, Kenneth                     Music
Watson, Sarah                       Gr 4/5 Language Based
Watt, Melanie                       COTA
Webster, Leigh                      Tutor, Sped
Weinstein, Kenneth                  Principal
Weiss, Laura                        Resource.5fte/preschool.5fte
Weisse, Lynn                        Tutor, Sped




                               247
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


West, Andrea                       FL French
Whalen, Paul                       Para, Sped 1:1
Whittier, Dawn                     Para, Kindergarten
Wilkens, John                      Social Studies
Willard, Marilyn                   Para, Sped
Williams, Jillian                  Sped, TLC Program
Williams, Nancy                    Para, Clerical
Williams, Pamela                   Tutor, Academic Skills
Wilson, Janice                     Secretary, Guidance
Wolff-Variam, Cheryl               Tutor, Wilson Reading
Wood, Enid                         Cafeteria
Woodfin, Lonna                     Nurse
Woodward McNiff, Sean              Assistant Principal
Worrick, Ann                       Tutor, Reading
Xiarhos, Kristin                   Special Education Teacher
Yakubian, Elaine                   Tutor, Sped
Yanow, Brooke                      Kindergarten
Young, Ashley                      Para, Therapeutic
Zalanowski, David                  Physics
Zarni, Patricia                    Para, Sped 1:1
Zimmer, Wendy                      Spch&Lang Path
Zinicola, Jenna                    Grade 3
Zolot, Jill, Tutor                 ELL




                             248
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                        2010 MCAS SUMMARY

                         Longitudinal Summary
             (percentage of students at each performance level)

                          Grade 3 System Wide

Reading/ELA              2006         2007       2008    2009          2010
Advanced                   38          26         28       26           22
Proficient                 40          48         47       47           55
Needs Improvement          21          21         21       23           20
Warning/Failing            1            4         4           4          3
Mathematics              2006         2007       2008    2009          2010
Advanced                   6           30         37       28           37
Proficient                 64          41         37       44           42
Needs Improvement          25          21         20       21           15
Warning/Failing            5            8         6           7          6



                                      Grade 4

      English/Lang.            2006     2007     2008   2009      2010
      Arts
      Advanced                  8           18    13     20       19
      Proficient                57          63    54     50       48
      Needs                     28          15    27     25       29
      Improvement
      Warning/Failing           7           4     6       5        4
      Mathematics              2006     2007     2008   2009      2010
      Advanced                  19          21    26     20       11
      Proficient                36          37    34     34       38
      Needs                     38          34    34     41       46
      Improvement
      Warning/Failing           8           8     6       5        6




                                      249
          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


                         Grade 5

English/Lang.     2006    2007     2008   2009   2010
Arts
Advanced           25      21       25     29     29
Proficient         55      56       54     51     52
Needs              15      19       18     16     18
Improvement
Warning/Failing    4       3        3      4      2
Mathematics       2006    2007     2008   2009   2010
Advanced           30      33       42     26     31
Proficient         36      41       29     42     41
Needs              26      18       20     20     22
Improvement
Warning/Failing     8       8       10     12     6
Science & Tech.   2006    2007     2008   2009   2010
Advanced           18      18       26     28     25
Proficient         46      42       42     32     46
Needs              32      35       27     33     25
Improvement
Warning/Failing    4        5       5      7      3




                          250
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010



                              Grade 6

English/Lang. Arts     2006     2007    2008    2009   2010
Advanced                20       17      28      31     21
Proficient              64       69      57      54     64
Needs Improvement       13       12      12      13     13
Warning/Failing         3         2      3       3      3
Mathematics            2006     2007    2008    2009   2010
Advanced                25       28      39      46     39
Proficient              41       42      40      32     35
Needs Improvement       23       24      14      16     20
Warning/Failing         11        6      7       6      6




                              Grade 7

English/Lang. Arts     2006      2007   2008    2009   2010
Advanced                20        21     20      23     22
Proficient              64        69     71      62     71
Needs Improvement       14        8       8      13     6
Warning/Failing         2         1      2       2      1
Mathematics            2006      2007   2008    2009   2010
Advanced                15        21     22      30     22
Proficient              37        40     44      37     54
Needs Improvement       35        30     27      24     16
Warning/Failing         13        9      8       9      8




                               251
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010




                             Grade 8
Eng/Language Arts     2006       2007   2008   2009   2010
Advanced               24         39     39     29     42
Proficient             60         57     55     66     50
Needs Improvement      13          2      6      4      7
Failing                 3          2      0      0      1
Mathematics           2006       2007   2008   2009   2010
Advanced               34         36     43     40     47
Proficient             33         37     34     41     30
Needs Improvement      15         20     15     14     17
Warning/Failing        18          7      8      4      7
Science/Technology    2006       2007   2008   2009   2010
Advanced               12          6      8      9     15
Proficient             50         49     59     61     51
Needs Improvement      28         40     28     25     29
Warning/Failing        11          6      4      4      5




                              252
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010




                               Grade 10

Eng/Language Arts       2006      2007    2008    2009   2010
Advanced                 17        44     39      53     50
Proficient               70        47     48      42     43
Needs Improvement        12         9     12       3      6
Warning/Failing          2          1      1       2      0
Mathematics             2006      2007    2008    2009   2010
Advanced                 54        67     60      71     77
Proficient               28        22     26      21     13
Needs Improvement        13        10     10       6      8
Warning/Failing          5          2      4       2      2
Science& Technology                       2008    2009   2010
Advanced                                  34      33     43
Proficient                                42      47     42
Needs Improvement                         19      16     13
Warning/Failing                            5       3      1




                                  253
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


             Scholastic Aptitude Test Scores (SAT)
                   Marblehead SAT Scores
                   Critical
     Year                             Math         Writing
                   Reading
     2007             554              554          548
     2008             550              553          543
     2009             561              582          559
     2010             558              571          551

                       AP Examinations
           YEAR              2007      2008          2009    2010
# of Students                128       158           135      152
                             176       210           208      257
  Total Grades reported

# of Subjects                     11         13       15      15
% Earning 3 or higher            88%        81%      86%     91%

              National Merit Scholarship Program
 Class of 2011 6 Semi-Finalists & 10 Commended Scholars
 Class of 2010 2 Semi-Finalists & 13 Commended Scholars
 Class of 2009 8 Commended Scholars
 Class of 2008 6 Commended Scholars

                        Advanced Placement Awards
     Class of 2010           13 AP Scholar Awards
                             11 AP Scholar with Honors Awards
                             16 AP Scholar with Distinction Awards
                              1 AP National Scholar

     Class of 2009           19 AP Scholar Awards
                             13 AP Scholar with Honors Awards
                              7 AP Scholar with Distinction Awards

     Class of 2008           12 AP Scholar Awards
                              5 AP Scholar with Honors Awards
                              9 AP Scholar with Distinction Awards




                                254
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


              Post Secondary Report for the Class of 2010

                  Size of Class: 238
                  Percentage continuing education    93%
                     Attending 4 year Colleges       80%
                     Attending 2 year Colleges       10%
                     Post Grad or Technical School    3%
                     Military                         1%
                  Percentage going into employment    6%


                                 Class of 2010

                      Valedictorian: Christiane Noel Henrich
                      Salutatorian: Maxwell Aaron Sherman

+     Micailah Catherine Adee            +      Morgan Rose Butler
      John Jeremiah Amon                        Spencer Paul Campbell
      Megan Michelle Amoroso                    Nathan John Canty
      Maxwell Jack Anderson                     Derek Carrion
      José Louis Andrade                        Kayla Marie Casale
+     Alaitz Aritza                      +      Thomas Cason
      Joseph Walter Aronhime             +      Stephanie Lee Castoldi
      Allison Ruth Bachner                      Tyler Edward Burns Chalifour
+     Jennifer Lynne Bachner                    Philip Christian Cheney
      John Davis Barrett                        Denelle Taylor Cohen
      Benjamin James Basso               *++    Silvie Rachel Cohen
      Devin Raymond Bates                +      Evan Gary Comeau
+     Elizabeth Lauren Belli             +      David John Copeland
      Michael Robert Bernato             +      Kathryn Elizabeth Corbett
      Blake Anna Bernier                 +      Thomas Paul Cormier
+     Rebecca Lee Coté Betters           +      Robert Charles Coviello
      Mitchell Edward Biggio             *+     Emma Catherine Crowley
*++   Jennifer Erin Billings                    William Alexander Cruse
      Benjamin Wayne Bingham                    Caitlin Christine Daly
*+    Alison Marie Bishop                       Sabyne Damas
*++   Sarah Alyson Bittermann                   Jacob Ethan Danesh
      Amelia Barrett Brown                      Melanie Paige Dempster
+     Caitlin Alexandra Brown            +      Daniel David Dennis
      Joseph Alan Brusca                        Alexandra Keats DiGiammarino




                                      255
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


      Corey Richard Docherty          +     Charles Frederic Herlihy
      Damarco Rashaun Dooley                Kelly Colleen Hines
      Jordan Scott Dooley                   Colin Patrick Hosman
      John Edward Dowds                     Michael Laurence Hull
      Gleb Dozorets                         Justin Albert Hyte
      Nicholas Ari Drachman                 Mark Lawrence Imber
*++   Jordana Alicia Dragon           +     Dillon Patrick Irving
*++   Adam Fleming Dunlavy                  Julia Sandra Isenberg
      Kyle David Edwards                    Alex Moss Jacobowitz
      Casey Ariel Ehrlich                   Seth Jacob Jalbert
*++   Adam Aarons Esposito            +     Antwanette Jessie-Mae Johnson
      Nikolai Muller Etholm                 Frazier Elias Jones
+     Matthew Norman Evans                  Sara Elizabeth Kalafa
*++   Nicole Kinsey Farrell           +     Christina Beth Kanosky
      Ellen Dinan Federman            *++   Irena Kats
+     Joseph Charles Florence         *++   Emma Griffith Kattman
+     Ari David Fodeman                     Jonah Aaron Katz
+     Bridget Sarah Forbes            +     Mark Irving Katz
      Blake Jeromy Forman             *++   Sophie Michelle Katzman
*++   Matthew Richard Frankel         +     Catherine Elizabeth Kauffman
+     Kirby Miller Franzese           *++   Katherine Grace Kelloway
*++   Tyler James Freeto                    Daniel Patrick Kennedy
      Devin Richard Friel             *++   Caroline Dana Keroack
      Andrew Willard Furth            *++   Mary Elisabeth Keroack
*++   Grace Sarah Gartel                    James Michael King
*+    Rachel Elizabeth Gianatasio           Nathan Paul Koontz
      Brenna Catherine Gloudemans     *++   Jennifer Rose Kurzrok
*++   Haley Alexandra Goldberg        +     Andrea Carmen Le
*++   Samuel Charles Goldman                Thelonious Metheny Lea
      Caitlin Whitney Gormley         +     Stephanie Allison Leap
      Patrick Joseph Grady            +     Jessica Callahan LeBlanc
*++   Andrew Norman Graf                    Michael Douglas Leoni
      Stephanie Elizabeth Groves      +     Joshua Seth Levy
      Anders Edward Gundersen         +     Sarah Danielle Likins
      Alexander Casey Haigis                Brendon Gisli Lilly
      Marcell Lee Hardmon             *++   Jess Benjamin Lipkind
      Marina Nicole Joy Hare          *++   Sara Anne Lodgen
*++   Savanah Lee Harshbarger         *++   Kirstin Ann Loveland
*++   Christiane Noel Henrich               Angela Maria Lydon
      Shakira Rochelle Herbert              Edward James Lynch




                                    256
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


+     Stephanie Catherine Lyons             Ming Rogers
      Ioanna Makris                   +     Chloё Elizabeth Rombach
+     Victoria Rose Mancuso                 Wesley Israel Rosen
*+    Flynn David McCormack           +     Shelby Grace Rosenberg
      Cory Thomas McDonald            *++   Alexandra Katherine Russell-Oliver
*++   Seamus Hoyt McGuire                   Hannah Fisher Sands
      Mallory Rose McMahon            *+    Julia Santos
      Morgan Taylor Mead                    Meghan Rae Scanlon
      Ryan Michael Michaud                  Ethan Marcus Schaier
      Elizabeth Arrington Miller      +     Kelly Elizabeth Schneider
      Fredi Belle Miller                    Dylan Thomas Scioletti
      Laura Elizabeth Mindel          *+    Joshua Morgan Segal
      Sean McGrath Mitchell                 Max Jacob Shaffer
+     Peter Andrew Mohn, Jr.                Morgan Rachel Sharrio
      Sydney Isabel Moore             *++   Maxwell Aaron Sherman
*+    Emma Lauren Moriarty                  Michele J. Silveira
+     Jenny Kate Morris                     Daniel James Sloss
*++   Julia Nichols Moulton           *++   Ellery Gruskin Smith
      Robert Ernest Nadal                   Renée Chanté Smith
      Adam Arby Rafferty Nassaf       *++   Adam Russell Smokler
*++   Carolyn Elizabeth Naughton            Andrew Kennedy Snadecki
*++   Johanna Dawn Nielsen                  Sam Donald Snow
+     Joseph Vincent Nuccio           +     Marissa Christina Spanos
      John Daniel O'Connell                 Brooke Margaret Stanley
      Chijioke Charles Okereke              Daria Elena Stelk
      Matthew James O'Neil                  Shane Francis Stirnweis
+     Erika Soyoung Onusseit                Anthony Michael Stone
      Brian Reid Orlowski                   Kayla Lauren Stone
+     Henry Phu                       +     Peter Strickland Stuart
*++   Matthew Mark Pivnick            +     Connor Stephen Sullivan
      Robert Dylan Pollock                  Michael Joseph Swiniuch
      Kevin Towner Quinlan                  Jonathan Patrick Taylor
      Daniel David Raynes                   Shakila Moné Taylor
++    Theodore Johnson Reale                Hayden Akre Teal
      Jonathan Tucker Reece                 Sam David Terrill
+     Mary Rebecca Reines                   Jaime Margaret Thayer
+     Alexander Belden Richard              Molly Rose Tringale
      Hayes Julian Richardson               Lauren Elizabeth Turner
*+    Andrew Tyler Rickards                 Tucker Yates Tyrrell
      Glenn Gabriel Rivera-Corona     +     Ann Vaydman




                                    257
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


     Alec David Vegan                          Joshua Dexter White
     Michael Christopher Walker                Joshua Thomas White
*+   Joanna Weidner Wallace                    Kia Shanata White
     Adam Ryan Walsh                     *++   Katherine Louise Wiley
     Charlotte Eliza Webber              +     Lindsey Van Ingen Williams
     Taylor Livingston Weil                    Darrin Joseph Wilson
     Lillie Hollenburg Weinstein         *++   Hannah Elizabeth Wolf
     Tatiana Mae Welcome                       Nicholas Aksel Wondolowski
     Kaylah Lashawn West                 *++   Brittany Victoria Woodfin
     Cale William Weston                 +     Jordan Solomon Wright
     Cody Andrew White                         William Maxwell Wyman


                          * National Honor Society Member
            ++ High Honor Graduate: 3.8 Cumulative Grade Point Average or
                                 better (7 semesters)
               + Honor Graduate: 3.4 Cumulative Grade Point Average or
                                 better (7 semesters)




                                      258
      School    PreK   K      1     2     3     4     5     6     7     8     9    10    11     12   Totals

      Bell       40    85    85    87    89                                                           386

      Coffin                       79    90                                                           169

      Gerry            82    87                                                                       169

      Glover                 78    95    95                                                           268




259
      Eveleth          80                                                                             80

      Village                                  231   212   271                                        714

      Middle                                                     241   234                            475
                                                                                                              October 1, 2010 Enrollments




      High                                                                   266   210   237   259    972
                                                                                                                                            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010




      Total     40     247   250   261   274   231   212   271   241   234   266   210   237   259   3233
              MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010




                Five-Year Enrollment Summary




               10/1/06   10/1/07      10/1/08   10/1/09   10/1/10

PreSchool        42        32           45        41        40
Elementary      1029      1036         1036      1043      1032
Village         612       707          736       733       714
School
Middle          462       463          475       480       475
School
High School     990       982          989       955       972

Total           3135      3220         3281      3252      3233




                                260
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
County of Essex, ss
to Any Constable in the Town of Marblehead
Greeting:

You are hereby required and directed in the name of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts to warn and give notice to the inhabitants of Marblehead, qualified to
vote in elections and in town affairs, to meet at the Marblehead Veterans Middle
School Auditorium, Duncan Sleigh Square, 217 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA,
on Monday, the second day of May next A. D. 2011 (it being the first Monday in
May) at 7:45 o’clock in the afternoon to act on the following articles in the Warrant
for said meeting as follows:

Article 1 Articles in Numerical Order
To see if the Town will vote to adopt an order requiring articles in the Warrant to be
taken up in their numerical order, as requested by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 2 Reports of Town Officers and Committees
To receive the report of the Town Accountant, the reports of the Town Officers, and
special Committees and act thereon.

Article 3 Assume Liability
To see if the Town will assume liability in the manner provided by Section 29 of
Chapter 91 of the General Laws, for all damages that may be incurred by work to be
performed by the Massachusetts Highway Department for the improvement,
development, maintenance and protection of tidal and non tidal rivers and streams,
harbors, tidewaters, foreshores and shores along a public beach in accordance with
Section 11 of Chapter 91 of the General Laws and authorize the Selectmen to
execute and deliver a bond of indemnity therefor to the Commonwealth, or take any
other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 4 Accept Trust Property
To see if the Town will vote to accept certain trust property, gifts or grants to be
administered by the Town or modify the terms thereof, or take any other action
relative thereto, as sponsored by Town Counsel.

Article 5 Lease Town Property
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to let or
lease such land, buildings or structures owned by the Town on such terms as they




                                        261
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


may determine, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board
of Selectmen.

Article 6 Unpaid Accounts
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum
of money to provide for the payment of any unpaid accounts brought forward from
previous years, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Director.

Article 7 Proposed Acceptance of Section 18 of MGL Chapter 32B
To see if the Town will vote to accept the provisions of Section 18 of Chapter 32B
of the Massachusetts General Laws. Sponsored by the Finance Director.

Article 8 Walls and Fences
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for the
construction and reconstruction of walls and fences for the protection of highways
and property, including engineering services in connection therewith; to authorize
the appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or
otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefor; to determine whether this
appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 9 Revolving Funds
To see if the Town will vote to authorize various revolving funds as required by
M.G.L. c 44 s.53E ½, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 10 Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
To see if the Town will raise and appropriate any sums of money for the purchase
of equipment for the several departments of the Town; to authorize the Board of
Selectmen to trade old equipment as part of the purchase price; to determine
whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Committee.

Article 11 Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for
remodeling, reconstructing and making extraordinary repairs to existing Town
buildings and the purchase of necessary equipment including computer hardware
and software to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing




                                       262
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen.

Article 12 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Administrative)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Administrative Pay Schedule; to strike out the pay schedule
as it relates to Administrative personnel, substitute in place thereof the following
new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of
money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 13 Pay Schedule and Reclassification (Traffic Supervisors)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Traffic Supervisors Pay Schedule; to waive the pay schedule
as it relates to Traffic Supervisor personnel, substitute in place thereof the following
new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of
money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 14 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Seasonal and
Temporary Personnel)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Seasonal and Temporary Personnel Pay Schedules; strike
out the pay schedules as they relate to seasonal and temporary personnel, substitute
in place thereof the following new pay schedules and to transfer from available
funds and/or appropriate a sum of money to make said new pay schedules effective,
or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 15 Compensation - Town Officers
To see if the Town will vote to revise the compensation of the Town Clerk as the
Town by vote may determine and to transfer from available funds and/or
appropriate a sum of money to make said revision effective or take any other action
relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 16 Water Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction, reconstruction and extending of




                                         263
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


water mains, replacement of water meters, appurtenances, engineering, consultants,
surveys including revenue studies and other general Water Department purposes,
and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by
purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements necessary to take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 17 Sewer Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction or reconstruction of sewers for
sanitary purposes and for sewerage disposal, pump stations, original pumping
equipment, metering equipment, safety equipment, replacement of said equipment,
engineering, consultants, surveys, including revenue studies and other general
Sewer Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or
easements necessary to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 18 Storm Drainage Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the construction or
reconstruction of sewers for surface drainage purposes, and to authorize the
appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise,
any land or easements necessary therefor, to determine whether this appropriation
shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 19 Water and Sewer Commission Claims
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the
Board of Selectmen acting jointly to compromise any claims for damages or suits
pending against the Town of Marblehead on account of acts which may have
occurred during the construction of the water, sewer and storm water system or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 20 Surface Drainage Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the construction or
reconstruction of storm sewers for surface drainage purposes, including engineering
services in connection therewith, and to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to
acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise, and land or easements necessary
therefor; to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or




                                        264
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


otherwise; or to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 21 Financial Assistance for Conservation
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Conservation Commission and other
proper officers of the Town to apply for financial assistance from public and private
sources to be expended by the Conservation Commission for the purchase of vacant
land and any other purpose, authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General
Laws as amended, or to reimburse the Town for sums of money expended for such
purposes, or both, and to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Conservation Commission.

Article 22 North Shore Regional Vocational School District
To see if the Town will vote to approve the gross operating and maintenance budget
of the North Shore Technical High School for the fiscal year commencing July 1,
2011 and appropriate a sum of money for the Town’s assessment of the same, or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 23 Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to pay the Town’s share
of the costs associated with the design, construction, and furnishing of the Essex
North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District’s new District High School
facility for the fiscal year commencing July 1, 2011; to determine whether this
appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 24 Available Funds appropriate to Reduce Tax Rate
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate free cash balance in the hands of the
Town Treasurer, including any surplus or part of surplus in the Electric Light
Department for use of the Assessors in making the tax rate or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Director.

Article 25 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the necessary and
usual expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2011, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Finance
Department.




                                        265
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Article 26 Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the supplemental
expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning July
1, 2011, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Finance
Department.

Article 27 Handicapped Parking
To see if the Town will vote to amend the By-Laws of the Town of Marblehead by
adding the following new Article to Chapter 119 thereof:

Article V:         Parking Spaces Reserved for Disabled Veterans or Handicapped
Persons
§ 119-5 Standing or Leaving of Vehicles
                   Prohibited
The standing or leaving of vehicles unattended within parking spaces designated as
reserved for vehicles owned and operated by disabled veterans or handicapped
persons, including cross-hatch areas adjacent thereto, if any, is prohibited except
where such vehicle is owned or operated by a disabled veteran or handicapped
person or is transporting handicapped person(s), and only where such vehicle is
properly identified as such as specified in G.L. c. 40, § 21(23). Parking in such a
manner so as to obstruct a curb ramp designed for use by a handicapped person as a
means of egress to a street or public way shall also be prohibited. The foregoing
prohibition shall apply to all public and private ways and in all places where the
public has a right of access as invitees or licensees.

§ 119-6 Violations and Penalties
The penalty for violation of this Article V shall be not less than $100 nor more than
$300 per occurrence. The Board of Selectmen is further authorized to provide for
the removal of vehicles as may be required hereunder, in accordance with G.L. c.
40, § 22D, and the violator shall be liable for all charges incurred for the removal
and storage of such vehicle in addition to the foregoing penalty.

§ 119-7 Enforcement
Violations of this Article V may be processed pursuant to G.L. c. 40, § 21D, and
shall be in the amount set forth above. Enforcement under the noncriminal
disposition process shall be carried out by the Police Chief and /or by duly-sworn
police officers, who shall have full enforcement powers.




                                        266
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


Or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Marblehead Disabilities
Commission.

Article 28 Old Town House
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to fund improvements
to the Old Town House, including but not limited to making the building
universally accessible; to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by
borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 29 Devereux Beach, Non Smoking Area
To see if the Town will declare the playground area of Devereux Beach as a no-
smoking area. Sponsored by Starr Campbell and others.

Article 30 Remove Position of Police Chief from Civil Service
To see if the Town will vote to petition the General Court to pass AN ACT
EXEMPTING THE POSITION OF POLICE CHIEF OF THE TOWN
OF MARBLEHEAD FROM THE PROVISIONS OF THE CIVIL SERVICE LAW

Section 1: The position of Police Chief in the Town of Marblehead shall be exempt
from the provisions of Chapter 31 of the General Laws and related regulations
applicable thereto.

Section 2: The provisions of Section 1 of this act shall not impair the civil service
status of the present incumbent Police Chief holding such status on the effective
date of this act.

Section 3: This act shall take effect upon its passage.

or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 31 Police Chief Selection Process
To see if the Town will vote to rescind Chapter 45, Article I, Section 45-1 of the
General Bylaws which now reads:

         The Board of Selectmen shall appoint the Chief of Police in accordance
         with the applicable provisions of the General Laws of the Commonwealth
         and amendments thereto and the applicable valid rules and regulations
         issued under said chapter and amendments thereto. Unless otherwise
         required by the applicable provisions of said chapter, amendments, rules




                                         267
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


        and regulations, no member of the Board of Selectmen shall be eligible for
        appointment to such office.

and replace it with the following:

45-1    Police Chief

        45-1-1            Appointment

                 45-1-1-1          Committee Composition
                 In the event there is an opening for the position of Police Chief,
                 the Board of Selectmen shall exercise its authority as the
                 Appointing Authority and appoint the Police Chief based upon
                 the recommendation of the Police Chief Screening Committee
                 (the “Committee”). Such Committee shall be comprised of seven
                 (7) members appointed by the Board of Selectmen and
                 representing the following municipal and/or community groups:

                 Town Administrator
                 School Department
                 Fire Department
                 Police Department
                 Council on Aging
                 Citizenry
                 Public Safety Professional

                 45-1-1-2 Recommendation
                                    Timeframe
                     • The Committee shall advertise for the position of Police
                          Chief through any medium deemed appropriate by the
                          Committee, including but not limited to the Town’s
                          municipal website and at least one newspaper of wide
                          circulation throughout the Commonwealth.
                     • Applicants shall have at least forty-five (45) days from
                          the date of initial publication to submit applications to
                          the Board of Selectmen.
                     • At the close of the application period, the Board of
                          Selectmen shall provide the Committee with all
                          application response materials received.




                                      268
   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


    •   Within ten (10) days following the close of the
        application period, the Committee shall meet in
        accordance with G.L. c. 30A, § 21 to review all
        applications and determine by vote, the top 5 applicants.
    •   Within ten (10) days following the vote, the Committee
        shall interview the top five (5) applicants as determined
        by the Committee.
    •   Within ten (10) days of the completion of all interviews,
        the Committee shall determine the top three applicants
        and confirm with the Applicants that they are interested
        in moving forward in the selection process.
    •   The Committee shall thereafter submit forthwith a
        written recommendation to the Board of Selectmen
        indicating the top three (3) applicants.

45-1-1-3 Evaluation Criteria
The Recommendation Committee shall evaluate the applicants
using criteria including but not limited to the following:

        Character
        Education
        Prior Experience as a Police Officer
        Prior Experience as a Police Chief
        Prior Employment Record
        Recommendations (Personal and Professional)

45-1-1-4 Board of Selectmen
                 Process
Within twenty-one (21) days of the receipt of the Committee’s
recommendation, the Board of Selectmen shall interview the
Candidates and conduct further review and investigation that the
Board deems necessary and appropriate.

45-1-1-5 Candidate Selection
The Board of Selectmen shall select a top candidate for the
position of Police Chief. Within ten (10) days of the Board’s
vote, the Chairman shall contact the top applicant and notify him
or her of the Board’s selection. The top applicant shall have
forty-eight (48) hours to accept the position of Police Chief,
subject to contract negotiations. Thereafter the Board of




                     269
            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


        Selectmen and the selected candidate shall enter into contract
        negotiations and submit to any other applicable preliminary hiring
        requirements. In the event the top applicant does not accept the
        position of Police Chief within the forty-eight (48) hour
        acceptance period, the Chairman of the Board of Selectmen shall
        contact the next ranked applicant and offer him or her the position
        of Police Chief. In the event that all three (3) top applicants
        refuse the position of Police Chief or the Board determines that
        none of the applicants meet the needs of the community at that
        time, then the Committee shall re-advertise for the position of
        Police Chief and follow the process as noted in section 45-1-1-2
        above.

        45-1-1-6 Physical Examination
        Prior to commencement of employment, the newly appointed
        Police Chief must submit to a physical examination in accordance
        with Section 106-1 of the Town’s General Bylaws

45-1-2            Term
The appointed Police Chief shall serve for three years subject to
reappointment at the discretion of the Board of Selectmen.

45-1-3           Duties
The duties of the Police Chief shall be those established by the Board of
Selectmen from time to time.

45-1-4           Employment Contract
The Board of Selectmen shall prepare an employment contract with the
Police Chief covering the terms and conditions of the Chief's employment.

45-1-5            Non-eligibility
No member of the Board of Selectmen shall be eligible for appointment to
the position of Police Chief.

45-1-6           Applicability
This by-law shall apply only to a Police Chief who is appointed
subsequent to the time that the position of Police Chief is removed from
Civil Service.




                              270
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


         45-1-7             Effective Date
         This by-law shall take effect if and when the General Court passes Special
         Legislation for the Town of Marblehead allowing the position of Police
         Chief to be exempted from the provision of Civil Service.
Or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 32 Old Landfill Remediation/ Construct New Solid Waste Facility
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for constructing a cap for the area(s) encompassing the old landfill
in accordance with and as required by applicable statutes and regulations,
deconstructing the old Transfer Station, constructing stormwater controls,
constructing and/or moving water and sewer mains, and constructing a new
Transfer Station, new Recycling Drop-Off Area, new Swap Shed, and new Yard
Waste Processing Area, and funding the purchase of all related real property
easements or other real property interests; to determine whether this appropriation
shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Health.

Article 33 Landfill Regulatory Compliance Activities
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for continued water quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk
assessment, and any other engineering services to determine the extent of clean up
or remediation necessary in connection with the old landfill; to determine whether
this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other
action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Health.

Article 34 Stony Brook Road Clean Up
Real Property Purchase and/or Taking;
To see if the Town will vote to purchase, acquire or take by eminent domain, and to
raise and appropriate a sum of money, either by appropriation, borrowing or
otherwise, to fund said purchase or taking, along with all legal costs, costs of
remediation and costs of settlement in connection with the clean-up related to the
historic operations of the former landfill, the property and/or building(s) located at
the following:

    •    56 Stony Brook Road, and more particularly described in a deed found at
         Book 12823 Page 8 recorded at the Essex South Registry of Deeds
         containing 28,456 square feet +/-;




                                        271
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


    •   A portion of 55 Stony Brook Road as more particularly described in a deed
        found at Book 11888 Page 451 and recorded in the Essex South Registry
        of Deeds that portion shown on a plan entitled “55 Stony Brook Road
        Taking or Acquisition Area” by Kleinfelder SEA and dated January 2011
        and which area contains 7,582 sq ft +/- which said plan is available in the
        Town Clerk’s office.

    •   A temporary construction easement on a portion of 52 Stony Brook Road
        as more particularly described in a master deed found at Book 27351 Page
        3 that portion being shown on a plan entitled “52 Stony Brook Road Area
        of Remediation” by Kleinfelder SEA, dated January 2011 said area
        indicated as Area of Remediation which said plan is available in the Town
        Clerk’s office.

    or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Health and the
    Board of Selectmen.

Article 35 Stony Brook Road Clean-up, Funding for Real Property Taking
and Remediation.
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money, and to see
whether such sum shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise, to fund the purchase
or taking of the property and building(s), the remediation of the property and
building(s) and associated legal costs, located at 57 Stony Brook Road, and more
particularly described in a deed found at Book 22473 Page 485 recorded at the
Essex South Registry of Deeds containing 18,430 square feet +/-, which said
purchase or taking by eminent domain was approved in Article 23 of the 2010
Annual Town Meeting, as part of the clean-up related to the historic operations of
the former landfill, or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Health and the Board of Selectmen.

Article 36 Zoning Bylaw, Lot Width Requirement.
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Marblehead Zoning Bylaw by changing
the minimum lot width requirement to apply within the Single Residence districts
only to that portion of a lot between the front lot line and the required front yard
setback, by changing the definition of Lot Width in Section 200-7, which presently
reads:

The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured perpendicular to
the mean direction of the side lot lines. At no point between the front lot line and




                                       272
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


the rear lot line shall the lot be narrower than 75% of the required lot frontage. (see
§200-16E, Minimum lot width.)

To read instead:
The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured perpendicular to
the mean direction of the side lot lines. At no point between the front lot line and
the rear lot line shall the lot be narrower than 75% of the required lot frontage,
except that within the Single Residence districts, this limitations shall apply only
between the front lot line and the minimum front yard setback (See §200-16E,
Minimum lot width)

And by changing Section 200-16(E), which presently reads:
Minimum lot width. The width of a lot shall not at any point be less than 75% of
the required lot frontage (for corner lots only the frontage opposite the rear lot line)
without having first obtained a special permit for use and dimension from the Board
of Appeals. (See the definition of “lot width” in § 200-7)

To read instead:
Minimum lot width. The width of a lot shall not at any point be less than 75% of
the required lot frontage (for corner lots only the frontage opposite the rear lot line)
without having first obtained a special permit for use and dimension from the Board
of Appeals, except that this limitation shall apply only between the front lot line and
the minimum front yard setback within the Single Residence districts. (See the
definition of “lot width” in § 200-7)

Or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by Andrew Colby and others.

Article 37 Zoning Bylaw, Lot Frontage Requirement
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Marblehead Zoning Bylaw by changing
the minimum lot frontage in the Single Residence districts from 100 feet to 75 feet
by amending the Single Residence row of Table 2, Dimensional Regulations,

which presently reads:

  Single       One           10,000     100    20     15     15     (1)    35(6)
  residence    family
               dwelling




                                         273
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


To read instead:


  Single        One            10,000    75     20    15    15       (1)     35(6)
  residence     family
                dwelling

or take any other action relative hereto. Sponsored by Andrew Colby and others.

Article 38 Schools Construction and/or Renovation Program
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
remodeling, construction, purchasing technology software and equipment,
furnishing or making extraordinary repairs, including all professional feasibility
studies, design, architectural and engineering fees, to the Gerry, Coffin, Bell,
Eveleth, Glover, Village, Veterans Middle and High School and/or any other
schools and their respective playing fields;          to determine whether such
appropriation shall be raised by borrowing, by the transfer of an unused/prior
appropriation and borrowing authority for such purposes, or in any other manner; or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 39 Marblehead-Glover/Eveleth Project
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate, borrow or transfer from available funds,
a sum of money to be expended under the direction of the Glover School Building
Committee for the Glover/Eveleth School Building Project, consisting of a new
school building and all costs incidental and related thereto, to be located at 9 Maple
Street, Marblehead, Massachusetts, which school facility shall have an anticipated
useful life as an educational facility for the instruction of school children of at least
50 years, and for which the Town may be eligible for a school construction grant
from the Massachusetts School Building Authority (MSBA). The MSBA’s grant
program is a non-entitlement, discretionary program based on need, as determined
by the MSBA, and any project costs the Town incurs in excess of any grant
approved by and received from the MSBA shall be the sole responsibility of the
Town. Any grant that the Town of Marblehead may receive from the MSBA for
the Project shall not exceed the lesser of (1) forty-percent (40%) of eligible,
approved project costs, as determined by the MSBA, or (2) the total maximum grant
amount determined by the MSBA. Sponsored by the School Committee.




                                          274
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


You are hereby further required and directed to notify and warn the Inhabitants of
the Town of Marblehead aforesaid who are qualified to vote in elections and in
Town affairs to subsequently meet at the several designated polling places in their
respective precincts in said Marblehead to wit:

In Precinct 1 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 2 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 3 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 4 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 5 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 6 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 7 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER

on Monday, the 9th day of May next A.D. 2011 (it being the second Monday in
May) at 7 o’clock in the forenoon then and there to bring into the precinct officers
of their respective precincts their votes on one ballot for the following-named Town
Officers to wit:

5 Selectmen
1 Moderator
1 Assessor
1 Cemetery Commissioner
1 Board of Health
1 Housing Authority
2 Library Trustees
1 Electric Light Commissioner
2 Planning Board
5 Recreation & Park Commissioners
2 School Committee
2 Water and Sewer Commissioners




                                       275
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2010


          For these purposes the polls will be open at each and all of said precincts at
7 o’clock in the forenoon and will be closed at 8 o’clock in the afternoon at each
and all of said precincts and you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting
attested copies thereof at Abbot Hall and ten (10) other conspicuous places in Town
as required by the Bylaws not later than thirty (30) days after being closed.
          Hereof fail not and make due return of this Warrant or a certified copy
thereof with our doings thereon, to each of the several precinct wardens at the time
and place of meetings aforesaid and to the Town Clerk as soon as may be before the
said meetings.

          Given under our hands at Marblehead aforesaid this 9th day of February
2011.


____________________________________
JAMES E. NYE, Chair

____________________________________
JACKIE BELF-BECKER

____________________________________
JUDITH R. JACOBI

____________________________________
T. MICHAEL ROCKETT

____________________________________
WILLIAM L. WOODFIN, II


Selectmen of Marblehead




A True Copy

Attest:                                     , Constable




                                         276
Departmental Information
      Emergency:
      FIRE                                             911
      POLICE                                           911

Town of Marblehead Official Website: www.marblehead.org
(Note: All phone numbers are 781 Area Code unless otherwise noted.)
Assessments                           Assessors                   631-0236
Birth, Marriage & Death Certificates Town Clerk                   631-0528
Board of Appeals (Zoning)             Engineering                 631-1529
Building Permits                      Building                    631-2220
Burial Permits                        Health                      631-0212
Cemetery                              Cemetery                    631-1182
Collector of Taxes                    Finance                     631-0587
Council on Aging                      Council on Aging            631-6737
Elections                             Town Clerk                  631-0528
Finance Director                      Finance                     631-1705
Fire Prevention                       Fire Dept.                  639-3428
Fuel Oil Storage                      Fire Dept.                  639-3428
Harbormaster                          Harbormaster                631-2386
Health                                Health Dept.                631-0212
Historical Commission                 Abbot Hall                  639-3425
Library                               Abbot Public Library        631-1480
Licenses – alcohol, common victualler
  entertainment, second hand          Selectmen’s Office          631-0000
Licenses – marriage, dog              Town Clerk                  631-0528
Plumbing Pemits                       Building                    639-9151
Police Administration                 Police Dept.                631-1212
Recreation                            Recreation & Park           631-3350
Schools:                              Administration              639-3140
                                      High School                 639-3100
                                      Veterans Middle School      639-3120
                                      Village School              639-3159
                                      Bell                        639-3171
                                      Coffin                      639-3181
                                      Gerry                       639-3186
                                      Glover                      639-3191
                                      Eveleth                     639-3196
Streets, Sidewalks                    Public Works                631-1750
Town Administrator                    Selectmen’s Office          631-0000
Town Treasurer                        Finance                     631-1033
Trees                                 Tree Warden                 631-2721
Veterans’ Benefits                    Veterans’ Agent             631-0990
Water & Sewer                         Water & Sewer               631-2694
Weights & Measures                    Sealer                      631-0990
Wiring Permits                        Building                    639-9151
Zoning Enforcement                    Building                    631-2220

FEDERAL AND STATE SENATORS AND REPRESENTATIVES:
US Senators:                Scott P. Brown   617-565-3170
                            John F. Kerry    617-565-8519
US Representative (6th Dt.) John F. Tierney  978-531-1669
MA Representative (8th Dt.) Lori Ehrlich     617-722-2090
MA Senator (3rd Dt.):       Thomas M. McGee  617-722-1350
