Cover Photograph courtesy of Rebecca Cutting May 2016
Phase one of the Fort Sewall restoration project completed this year included
concrete work, new railings and the installation of a binocular at the eastern tip of
Fort Sewall. The binocular was generously donated by Felix & Ruth Twaalfhoven
& Family and dedicated to their parents.

Back Photograph courtesy of Meryl Thompson
The Stramski pier project was completed for use on July 1, 2016. The Harbors and
Waters Board recommended, and the Board of Selectmen voted, to name the pier
the William Pattison Landing in honor of William Pattison, long time member of
the Harbors & Waters Board who was passionate in the endeavor of this long
project. Unfortunately Bill passed away in 2010 and did not get to see the project
completed.
        ANNUAL
     TOWN REPORT
    OF THE YEAR 2016



MARBLEHEAD, MASSACHUSETTS
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Board of Selectmen                                3
Town Clerk                                        8
Warrant for Annual Town Meeting                   8
May 2, 2016
Results of Annual Town Meeting                    18
May 2, 2016
Results of Annual Town Election                   28
May 10, 2016
Warrant for Presidential Primary                  33
March 1, 2016
Results of Presidential Primary                   35
March 1, 2016
Warrant for Special Town Election                 42
June 14, 2016
Results of Special Town Election                  44
June 14, 2016
Warrant for State Primary                         45
September 8, 2016
Results of State Primary                          47
September 8, 2016
Warrant for State Election                        52
November 8, 2016
Results of State Election                         57
November 8, 2016
Officials Elected                                 64
Officials Appointed                               67
Vital Records of 2016 - # of births,              79
marriages, deaths
Department Reports:
Abbot Public Library                              80
Board of Assessors                                87
Board of Health                                   89
Building Commissioner and Inspectional            99
Services
Cemetery Department                              101
Conservation Commission                          104
Council on Aging                                 106
Department of Public Works                       112
Engineering Department                           114




                                         1
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Financial Services                             116
Fire Department                                119
Fort Sewall Oversight Committee                134
Harbors and Waters                             136
Marblehead Cultural Council                    138
Marblehead Fair Housing Committee              140
Marblehead Historical Commission               142
Marblehead Housing Authority                   144
Metropolitan Area Planning Council             154
Municipal Light Department                     156
Old Burial Hill Oversight Committee            164
Old and Historic Districts Commission          165
Planning Board                                 166
Police Department/Animal Control               168
Recreation & Parks                             173
Sealer of Weights & Measures                   180
Shellfish Constables                           181
Task Force Against Discrimination              182
Tree Department                                185
Veterans’ Agent                                187
Water and Sewer Commission                     188
Zoning Board of Appeals                        198
School Reports                                 199
Marblehead School Committee members
organization and meetings
Admission Requirements
No School Announcement/School Hours
Superintendent of Schools
Marblehead School Committee Report
Administration, Faculty and Staff
2016 MCAS Summary
Scholastic Aptitude Test Scores (SAT)
5 year history
Marblehead High School Class of 2016
Enrollment Summaries
Town Warrant – Annual Town Meeting             240
May 1, 2017




                                   2
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                         BOARD OF SELECTMEN


The Board of Selectmen is comprised of five members, each elected annually.
Members of the Board of Selectmen are Chair, Jackie Belf-Becker., Harry C.
Christensen, Jr., Judith R. Jacobi, Bret T. Murray and James E. Nye. The Board
meets on the second and fourth Wednesday of each month at 7:30 p.m. in the
Selectmen’s Meeting Room in Abbot Hall and as needed at other times. All
meetings are open to the public.

This year, the Town received a grant from the Massachusetts Historic Commission
for a conditions assessment and treatment report for Abbot Hall and its grounds.
During the course of the Abbot Hall Tower Project, several things were learned
about treatments that would benefit the entire of the building. The grant was
matched by funds through the Historic Commission form the Shattuck Fund.

The Town began the last portion of the ADA compliance work in Abbot Hall with
the addition of a universally accessible lift to access the stage. This work began in
2016 and is expected be completed in early 2017.

The Town conducted repairs on several Town owned buildings under the control of
the Board of Selectmen including repainting of the Hobbs building, the enlargement
and replacement of a DPW garage door, window replacement in the Central Fire
Station, and the installation of a new heating system at the Police Station.

Also in 2016, renovations where completed to the Town’s Community Center.
These renovations reallocated space for both the Council on Aging and the
Recreation and Parks Department, improved the conference room in the building
and increased storage space. Funding for this project came from the Friends of the
Council on Aging, the Shattuck Fund, and the Recreation and Parks revolving fund.

Phase one of the Fort Sewall project was completed this year. The project was
funded in parts by a grant from the Massachusetts Historical Commission, donations
and the Curtis Coffin Fund. The primary focus of the work was the masonry on the
southern side of the redoubt, replacing window grilles, replacing doors, door frames
and door gratings, as well as repairing unsafe conditions on a walkway and
installing/replacing railings and the installation of Binoculars generously donated by
the Twaalfhoven family.




                                          3
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Other significant projects that were initiated in 2016 included; selection of a vendor
to update the Town’s website in terms of functionality and content, procurement of
new maintenance software to track building and vehicle needs, and procurement of
new pavement management software. A procurement process was also conducted
to select a new operator of the concession stand at Devereux Beach. Also in January
2016, the practice of having a community bonfire, burning Christmas trees that are
collected curbside twelve days after Christmas was reinstituted after several years at
Riverhead Beach.

Annual Town Meeting in May 2016 acted favorably on several articles sponsored
by the Board of Selectmen. These included funding for necessary seawall and rip
rap repairs on Ocean Avenue, funding for a new Pumper Truck for the Fire
Department, funding for other vehicle and capital improvements to town owned
buildings, as well as article authorizing the sale of town property in the vicinity of
the Tower School. Town Meeting also approved a Home Rule Petition involving
membership on the Old & Historic Districts Commission. This Home Rule petition
was subsequently approved by the State Legislature and signed by the Governor.

This year the Board of Selectmen adopted new curb cut regulations to institute
better controls on new curb cuts and preserve on street parking.

The Selectmen appointed a committee comprised of Police Department staff, other
Town officials as well as citizens to update the Police Department’s Strategic Plan.
In May 2016, this committee presented the Selectmen with an updated strategic plan
titled “Continuing Forward 2021”. The Selectmen approved the plan covering a
five year period.

In response to the growing public health crisis a working group was formed in April
2016 to determine the scope of the opioid problem in town and formulate a plan to
address the threats posed by opioids. The working group has involved
representatives from many town departments. The main focus of this group has
been to raise public awareness of this issue. During 2016, the group placed critical
information about opioid addition, treatment options, as well as other assistance and
resources on the Town’s website, produced an informational brochure, and planned
community events all focused on awareness.

In 2016 a Gerry School Building Committee was formed, as required by the
Massachusetts School Building Authority. This Committee was formed to examine
and evaluate the various options for renovating, consolidating or replacing this
facility. The committee includes representatives from the community with




                                          4
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


particular expertise, along with various school and town officials. Both the Chair of
the Board of Selectmen and the Town Administrator serve on this Building
Committee.

The Board also reactivated the Cable Television Advisory Committee in 2016 by
appointing several additional members to this committee. This Committee will
assist the Board in the re-licensing process for Cable services with both Comcast
and Verizon over the next few years.

Early in 2016, Robert Ives, Building Commissioner, retired after 29 years of service
to the Town. The Board thanks him for his service and wishes him well. The Town
welcomed Richard Baldacci as the new Building Commissioner who was appointed
by the Selectmen.

In June of 2016 William Lanphear, the Engineering and Conservation Administrator
left his position with the Town. Rather than refilling the vacancy the decision was
made to reinstate the position of Town Engineer. The Selectmen appointed Charles
Quigley as Town Engineer in September.

The Selectmen also wish to acknowledge and thank the following employees, all of
whom retired in 2016, for their service to the Town: Fire Captains Michael Porter
and Daniel Rice, Police Officer Arthur Buckley, Deborah Frongillo, senior clerk in
the Police Department, Mary Starrett, senior clerk in the Abbot Public Library, and
Debra Christensen, payroll clerk in the Finance Department.

During 2016, the Board appointed three new firefighters to the Fire Department and
four new police officers to the Police Department.

The Board sadly acknowledges the death of Marcia Sweeney a longtime volunteer
in the town who was the town’s representative on the regional technical high school
for many years. The Board also acknowledges the death of Fred Goddard who
served on the Marblehead-Grasse Sister City Committee; on the Downtown
Streetscape Committee and as a town Fence Viewer for many years.

As the local licensing authority, the Selectmen renewed and/or issued the following
licenses concerning its licensed serving establishments:

         Annual All Alcoholic Restaurant (15)
         Annual All Alcoholic – Package Store (5)
         Annual All Alcoholic Fraternal Club (2)




                                         5
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


         Annual All Alcoholic Club (3)
         Season All Alcoholic Club (2)
         Annual Wine & Malt – Package (1)
         Annual Wine & Malt Restaurant (7 Day) (5)
         Annual Common Victualler (43)
         Annual Entertainment (16)
         Sunday Entertainment (14)
         Second Hand Dealer (8)
         Automatic Amusement Device (20)
         Annual Lodging (3)
         Movie Theatre (1)

In May 2016, the Historical Commission presented four important historical
documents from the Revolutionary period to be displayed in the Selectmen’s Room
at Abbot Hall. These documents included George Washington’s letter to the
inhabitants of Marblehead in 1789, Elbridge Gerry’s letter to the Selectmen in 1774
accepting appointment to the Massachusetts Provincial Congress, Paul Revere’s
1787 letter to Jonathan Glover and the Selectmen attempting to procure surplus
cannon from the Town, and a resolution dated 1784 from the Massachusetts General
Court relative to a Marblehead petition signed by Governor John Hancock and
Senate President Samuel Adams.

In November 2016, a Spanish made cannon, captured during the Spanish American
War was moved by the members of Glover’s Regiment to the basement of Abbot
Hall. The cannon had previously been stored in the Town’s Gun House and can
now be viewed by visitors to Abbot Hall.

In June 2016, the Board was notified of a generous bequest from Larz J. Anderson
Trust. Mr. Anderson was a long time resident of the Town. This bequest will not
be available until September 2018, and is estimated to have a value of
approximately $2 million. These monies when available can be used for winter
sports, or a field house for indoor sports. Decisions regarding the use of these funds
will be done jointly by the Board of Selectmen and the Recreation and Parks
Commission.

The Board would like to recognize the tremendous amount of time volunteers
throughout the Town government and local philanthropic organizations devote to
working for the benefit of Marblehead. In addition to thanking the volunteers for
their time, the Board also thanks all of those who contributed financially to the
various funds established for the benefit of the Town. Also the Board recognizes




                                          6
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


the efforts and dedication of our town employees who work extraordinarily well
together.

The Board also thanks John McGinn, Town Administrator, Rebecca Curran Cutting,
Town Planner/Chief Procurement Officer; Kyle Wiley, Administrative Aide and the
office staff Jennifer Smith and Jane Tricomi, for all their assistance this past year
and extend our best wishes and thanks to the all of the citizens of the Town of
Marblehead whom we faithfully and conscientiously strive to represent.


Faithfully yours,

Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
Judith R. Jacobi
Bret T. Murray
James E. Nye




                                         7
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
County of Essex, ss
to Any Constable in the Town of Marblehead
Greeting:


You are hereby required and directed in the name of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts to warn and give notice to the inhabitants of Marblehead, qualified to
vote in elections and in town affairs, to meet at the Marblehead Veterans Middle
School Auditorium, Duncan Sleigh Square, 217 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA,
on Monday, the second day of May next A. D. 2016 (it being the first Monday in
May) at 7:00 o’clock in the afternoon to act on the following articles in the Warrant
for said meeting as follows:

Article 1 Articles in Numerical Order
To see if the Town will vote to adopt an order requiring articles in the Warrant to be
taken up in their numerical order, or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 2 Reports of Town Officers and Committees
To receive the report of the Town Accountant, the reports of the Town Officers, and
special Committees, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 3 Assume Liability
To see if the Town will assume liability in the manner provided by Section 29 of
Chapter 91 of the General Laws, for all damages that may be incurred by work to be
performed by the Massachusetts Highway Department for the improvement,
development, maintenance and protection of tidal and non-tidal rivers and streams,
harbors, tidewaters, foreshores and shores along a public beach in accordance with
Section 11 of Chapter 91 of the General Laws and authorize the Selectmen to
execute and deliver a bond of indemnity therefore to the Commonwealth, or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 4 Accept Trust Property
To see if the Town will vote to accept certain trust property, gifts or grants to be
administered by the Town or modify the terms thereof, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by Town Counsel.




                                          8
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Article 5 Lease Town Property
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to let or
lease such land, buildings or structures owned by the Town on such terms as they
may determine, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen.

Article 6 Unpaid Accounts
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of
money to provide for the payment of any unpaid accounts brought forward from
previous years, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Director.

Article 7 Revolving Funds
To see if the Town will vote to authorize various revolving funds as required by
M.G.L. c 44 s.53E ½, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 8 Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
To see if the Town will raise and appropriate any sums of money for the purchase of
equipment for the several departments of the Town, to authorize the Board of
Selectmen to trade old equipment as part of the purchase price and to determine
whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise, or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 9 Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for
remodeling, reconstructing and making extraordinary repairs to existing Town or
School buildings and the purchase of necessary equipment including computer
hardware and software to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by
borrowing or otherwise, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 10 Walls and Fences
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for the
construction and reconstruction of walls and fences for the protection of highways
and property, including engineering services in connection therewith; to authorize
the appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or
otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefore; to determine whether this
appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.




                                         9
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016




Article 11 Ocean Avenue Sidewalk, Seawall and Rip Rap Repair
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Selectmen for repairing and/or replacing the sidewalk, seawall and rip rap
on Ocean Avenue adjacent to the land located at 231 Ocean Avenue, including
engineering and legal costs, construction, permitting and all other activities and
costs necessary to carry out the work; and determine whether this appropriation
shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 12 Amend General Bylaws to Reduce Quorum at Town Meeting
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 174 of the General Bylaws of the
Town of Marblehead by reducing the quorum requirements set forth in section 174-
5, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 13 Landfill Regulatory Compliance Activities
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for continued water quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk
assessment, engineering, and any other services related to the old landfill; to
determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Health.

Article 14 Water Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction, reconstruction and extending of
water mains, replacement of water meters, appurtenances, engineering, consultants,
surveys including revenue studies and other general Water Department purposes,
and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by
purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements necessary, or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 15 Sewer Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction or reconstruction of sewers for
sanitary purposes and for sewerage disposal, pump stations, original pumping
equipment, metering equipment, safety equipment, replacement of said equipment,
engineering, consultants, surveys, including revenue studies and other general
Sewer Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or




                                         10
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


easements necessary, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 16 Storm Drainage Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the construction,
reconstruction, permitting and maintenance of storm sewers for surface drainage
and general Drain Department purposes, including engineering services in
connection therewith, and to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to acquire by
purchase, eminent domain or otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefore,
and to raise the money for such purposes by the issue of bonds or notes or in any
other manner, to be expended by the Water and Sewer Commission; or to take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 17 Water and Sewer Commission Claims
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the
Board of Selectmen acting jointly to compromise any claims for damages or suits
pending against the Town of Marblehead on account of acts which may have
occurred during the construction of the water, sewer and storm water system, or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 18 Financial Assistance for Conservation
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Conservation Commission and other
proper officers of the Town to apply for financial assistance from public and private
sources to be expended by the Conservation Commission for the purchase of vacant
land and any other purpose, authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General
Laws as amended, or to reimburse the Town for sums of money expended for such
purposes, or both, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Conservation Commission.

Article 19 Ratification of Salary By-Law
To see if the Town will vote to ratify certain actions taken by the Compensation
Committee under Chapter 43 Section 3(e) as last amended and amend the
classification table by reclassifying two positions and adding one new position or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Compensation Committee.

Article 20 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Administrative)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify




                                         11
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


certain positions in the Administrative Pay Schedule; to strike out the pay schedule
as it relates to Administrative personnel, substitute in place thereof the new pay
schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of money to
make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 21 Proposed Pay Schedule and Reclassification (Traffic Supervisors)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Traffic Supervisors Pay Schedule; to waive the pay schedule
as it relates to Traffic Supervisor personnel, substitute in place thereof the new pay
schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of money to
make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 22 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Seasonal and
Temporary Personnel)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Seasonal and Temporary Personnel Pay Schedules; strike out
the pay schedules as they relate to seasonal and temporary personnel, substitute in
place thereof the new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or
appropriate a sum of money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 23 Compensation - Town Officers
To see if the Town will vote to revise the compensation of the Town Clerk as the
Town by vote may determine and to transfer from available funds and/or
appropriate a sum of money to make said revision effective, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 24 Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District
To see if the Town will vote to approve the gross operating and maintenance budget
of the Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District for the fiscal
year commencing July 1, 2016 and appropriate a sum of money for the Town’s
assessment of the same, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.




                                         12
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Article 25 Allocation of Bond Premium to Debt Excluded Project Costs
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate the aggregate net premium paid to the
Town upon the sale of bonds issued to pay costs of the drainage, landfill and Abbot
Hall Clock Tower projects, each of which are the subject of a Proposition 2½ debt
exclusion, to pay costs of such projects being financed by such bonds, and to reduce
the amount authorized to be permanently financed for such projects by the same
aggregate amount, as allocable to each project, or to take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Director.

Article 26 Available Funds Appropriate to Reduce Tax Rate
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate free cash balance in the hands of the
Town Treasurer, including any surplus or part of surplus in the Electric Light
Department for use of the Assessors in making the tax rate, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Director.

Article 27 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the necessary and
usual expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2016, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Director.

Article 28 Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the supplemental
expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning July
1, 2016, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Director.

Article 29 Acceptance of MGL Chapter 31 Section 58A, Police and Fire
Maximum Age Restrictions
To see if the Town will accept the provisions of Massachusetts General Law
Chapter 31, Section 58A, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Police and Fire Chiefs.

Article 30 Amend Historic Districts Commission Special Act
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to petition the
General Court of the Commonwealth, pursuant to the Provisions of Section 8 of
Article 89 of the Amendments to the State Constitution and all other applicable laws
to amend Chapter 101 of the Acts of 1965, An Act Establishing the Old and Historic




                                        13
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


District Commission of the Town of Marblehead, Section 4, by omitting the
requirement that all of the membership of the commission reside in an historic
district and by amending section 8 to allow a longer period of time upon which to
make a determination of estates effected, as follows:

AN ACT AMENDING CHAPTER 101 OF THE ACTS OF 1965, AN ACT
ESTABLISHING THE OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION OF
THE TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in the General Court
assembled and by authority of the same as follows:

SECTION 1. Amend Chapter 101 of the Acts of 1965, An Act Establishing the Old
and Historic Districts Commission of the Town of Marblehead as follows:

    a.   by omitting the second part of the second sentence in Section 4. Which
         now reads; “Each member shall be a resident of the town of Marblehead
         and shall reside in an historic district established under this act.”

    To read instead; “Each member shall be a resident of the town of
    Marblehead and shall reside in the historic district established under this
    act except the Board of Selectmen may appoint no more than one member
    from outside of an historic district.”

    b.   by changing the second word in Section 8 which now reads: “Within ten
         days….”

    To read instead; “Within twenty-one (21) days…”

SECTION 2. This Act shall take effect upon its passage.

SECTION 3. The General Court may reasonably vary the form and substance of the
requested legislation within the scope of the general public objectives of this
petition.

or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.




                                        14
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Article 31 Abandon Portion of Public Way
To see if the Town will vote to abandon a certain portion of Colgate Road as a
public way as more fully set forth on the plan entitled “Rights Plan” and dated April
7, 2015 by Hayes Engineering, and indicated as “Portion to be Abandoned”
including 10,541 sq. ft. +/-and which is on file with the Town Clerk, or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 32 Sell Town Property
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to sell a portion of
Colgate Road as more fully set forth on the plan entitled “Rights Plan” and dated
April 7, 2015 by Hayes Engineering, and indicated as “Portion to be Abandoned”
including 10,541 sq. ft. +/-and which is on file with the Town Clerk, and to enter
into any and all agreements on such terms as the Selectmen may determine in order
to effectuate same, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 33 Purchase of Pumper Truck for Fire Department
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purchase of a
pumper truck for the Fire Department, and to determine whether this appropriation
shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 34 Gerry School Feasibility Study
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate, borrow or transfer from available funds,
an amount of money to be expended under the direction of the Gerry School
Building Committee to undertake a feasibility study to analyze in depth the design
options and costs for the renovation and/or reconstruction of the Gerry School, 50
Elm Street, Marblehead, and to explore and investigate the advantages and/or
disadvantages of district reorganization options, for which feasibility study the
Town may be eligible for a grant from the Massachusetts School Building
Authority. The MSBA’s grant program is a non-entitlement, discretionary program
based on need, as determined by the MSBA, and any costs the Town incurs in
connection with the feasibility study in excess of any grant approved by and
received from the MSBA shall be the sole responsibility of the Town, or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 35 Expenses for Holiday Decorations
To determine whether the Town of Marblehead will allocate funds in the amount of
$5,000.00 (five thousand dollars) per annum for the beautification of the Town
during the December-Winter Holiday season, which funds shall be used to decorate




                                         15
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


the commercial zones on Washington Street, Pleasant Street and Atlantic Avenue
with garlands, wreaths, ribbons etc., and to pay for the installation of said
decorations, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by Dawn LiVigne
and Kristen Pollard.

You are hereby further required and directed to notify and warn the Inhabitants of
the Town of Marblehead aforesaid who are qualified to vote in elections and in
Town affairs to subsequently meet at the several designated polling places in their
respective precincts in said Marblehead to wit:

In Precinct 1 - Polling Place –
OLD TOWN HOUSE
1 Market Square
In Precinct 2 - Polling Place –
MASONIC TEMPLE
62 Pleasant Street
In Precinct 3 - Polling Place –
MASONIC TEMPLE
62 Pleasant Street
In Precinct 4 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
10 Humphrey Street
In Precinct 5 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
10 Humphrey Street
In Precinct 6 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
10 Humphrey Street

on Tuesday, the 10th day of May next A.D. 2016 (it being the second Tuesday after
the first Monday in May) at 7 o’clock in the forenoon then and there to bring into
the precinct officers of their respective precincts their votes on one ballot for the
following-named Town Officers to wit:

Selectmen 5 for 1year
Moderator 1 for 1 year
Town Clerk 1 for 3 years
Assessor 1 for 3 years
Cemetery Commission 1 for 3 years
Board of Health 1 for 3 years




                                         16
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Housing Authority 1 for 5 years
Housing Authority 1 for a 2 year unexpired term
Library Trustee 2 for 3 years
Planning Board 1 for 3 years
Municipal Light Commission 2 for 3 years
Recreation & Park Commission 5 for 1 year
School Committee 2 for 3 years
School Committee 1 for a 1 year unexpired term
Water & Sewer Commission 2 for 3 years

For these purposes the polls will be open at each and all of said precincts at 7
o’clock in the forenoon and will be closed at 8 o’clock in the afternoon at each and
all of said precincts and you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested
copies thereof at Abbot Hall and ten (10) other conspicuous places in Town as
required by the Bylaws not later than thirty (30) days after being closed.

Hereof fail not and make due return of this Warrant or a certified copy thereof with
our doings thereon, to each of the several precinct wardens at the time and place of
meetings aforesaid and to the Town Clerk as soon as may be before the said
meetings.

Given under our hands at Marblehead aforesaid this 24th day of February 2016.

JACKIE BELF-BECKER, Chair
HARRY C. CHRISTENSEN, JR.
JUDITH R. JACOBI
BRET T. MURRAY
JAMES E. NYE


Selectmen of Marblehead




A True Copy
Attest: Douglas W. Perry, Constable, March 2, 2016




                                        17
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                              Town of Marblehead
                              Annual Town Meeting
                              Monday, May 2, 2016


With a quorum met the Moderator called the 2016 Annual Town Meeting to
order at 7:29PM

Article 1 Articles in Numerical Order
Voted: That the articles be taken up in their numerical order.

Article 2 Reports of Town Officers and Committees
Voted: To receive the report of the Town Accountant, the reports of the Town
Officers and Special Committees.

Article 3 Assume Liability
Voted: That the Town will assume liability in the manner provided by Section 29
of Chapter 91 of the General Laws, for all damages that may be incurred by work to
be performed by the Massachusetts Highway Department for the improvement,
development, maintenance and protection of tidal and non-tidal rivers and streams,
harbors, tidewaters, foreshores and shores along a public beach in accordance with
Section 11 of Chapter 91 of the General Laws and authorize the Selectmen to
execute and deliver a bond of indemnity therefor to the Commonwealth, or take any
other action relative thereto.

Article 4 Accept Trust Property
Voted: That this article be indefinitely postponed

Article 5 Lease Town Property
Voted: To allow the Board of Selectmen and School Committee to let or lease such
land, buildings or structures owned by the Town on such terms as they may
determine, or take any other action relative thereto.

Article 6 Unpaid Accounts
Voted: That this article be indefinitely postponed

Article 7 Revolving Funds
Voted: To Create the following new revolving funds as required by M.G.L. C.44, s
53E ½ as recommended by the Board of Selectmen.




                                         18
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


1. Street Opening Revolving Fund in the amount of $40,000 in fiscal 2017 for the
use of the Director of Public Works to be taken from revenues from street opening
permits; said appropriation to be used for expenses associated with opening various
public ways for the purposes of utility work and expended by the Director.
2. Vaccine Revolving Fund in the amount of $8,000 in fiscal 2017 for the use of the
Board of Health to be taken from receipts from flu related clinics; said
appropriation to be used for expenses of operating said clinics; and expended by the
Board of Health.

And to continue the authorization of the following revolving funds
1. Historical Commission Gift Shop Revolving Fund in the amount of $15,000 in
fiscal 2017 for the use of the Historical Commission to be taken from Historical
Commission revenues from the sale of items at the gift shop operated by said
commission; said appropriation to be used for expenses of operating said gift shop;
and expended by the Commission.
2. Recreation and Park Revolving Fund in the amount of $600,000 in fiscal 2017
for the use of the Recreation and Park Commission to be taken from revenues in
connection with recreation programs and activities including teen center, program
fees, rentals, miscellaneous sales, promotional fees, $10.00 of out of town parking
fees charged on weekends to be used for capital improvements at Devereux Beach
and various recreational fund raising events; said appropriation to be used for the
expense of said activities including equipment, capital improvements and
promotions; and expended by the Commission.
3. Council on Aging Revolving Fund in the amount of $250,000 in fiscal 2017 for
the use of the Council on Aging Director to be taken from revenues in connection
with the meals on wheels, and nutrition programs, mini-bus donations, trips,
miscellaneous programs, instructional classes, recreational programs, games and
tournaments, luncheons and entertainment, and other activities including program
fees, fund raising, rentals, miscellaneous sales and promotional fees; said
appropriation to be used for the expense of said activities and trips, including
equipment and promotions; and expended by the Council on Aging Director.
4. Dog Officer/Animal Control Officer Revolving Fund in the amount of $20,000 in
fiscal 2017 for the use of the Dog Officer to be taken from revenues in connection
with fees, reimbursements, deposits and refunds of animal medical expenses
including spay and neuter expenses, miscellaneous other sales and various fund
raising events;' said appropriation to be used for the expense of said programs and
activities including medical bills, animal food, pet supplies and equipment, and
promotional expenses; and expended by the Dog Officer/ Animal Control Officer.
5. Commercial Waste Revolving Fund in the amount of $450,000 in fiscal 2017 for
the use of the Board of Health to be taken from revenues in connection with




                                        19
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


commercial waste disposal receipts; said fund to be expended for the cost of solid
waste disposal.
6. Conservation Fines Revolving Fund in the amount of $25,000 in fiscal 2017 for
the use of the Conservation Commission to be taken from revenues in connection
with receipts collected from fines assessed by the commission; said funds to be
expended for the study or implementation of remediation of wetland violations and
the study or environmental remediation of municipal properties and for the care and
maintenance of lands under the control and jurisdiction of the conservation.
7. Sump Pump Improvement Revolving Fund in the amount of $25,000 in fiscal
2017 for the use of the Sewer and Water Commission; to be taken from revenues in
connection with receipts collected from money received as a result of permitting
fees; said fund to be expended for the aid in removal of sump pumps currently tied
into the sewer system.
8. Special Education Revolving Fund in the amount of $610,000 in fiscal 2017 for
the use of the School Committee; revenues to be taken from tuition collected for
special education students tuition in to the Marblehead Public Schools and from
funds collected to pay for the other special education contracted services for out of
district special education students being provided service through the North Shore
Special Education Consortium and other approved special education public and
private placements; said funds to be expended on costs directly related to the special
education programs provided to these out of district students.
9. Storm Water By-Law Revolving Fund in the amount of $10,000 in fiscal 2017
for the use of the conservation Commission; to be taken from revenues in
connection with receipts collected from application fees associated with the town’s
storm water management and erosion control regulations; said funds to be expended
for expenses related to the enforcement and administration of the Storm water By-
Law.

Article 8 Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
Voted: That the sum of $434,615.00 be appropriated, and to meet this
appropriation; $55,000.00 is to be transferred from Sewer Retained Earnings, and
$379,615.00 is to be raised by taxation. To include the following:
Highway Department                            Tree Department
2 Small Dump Truck w/Plow                     1 Small Dump Truck w/Plow
Fire Department                               Park Department
1 Pickup Truck w/Plow                         1 Utility Truck w/Plow
Police Department                             Building Department
1 Police Patrol Vehicle                       1 Inspection Vehicle
Sewer Department
1 4x4 Truck w/Utility Body




                                         20
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016




Article 9 Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
Voted: That the sum of $260,000.00 be appropriated.
Police Station                                      Tower Way
Replace Security Camera’s around Building           External Lighting Upgrade
Community Center                                    Hobbs Building
Upgrade Phone System                                Repair & Paint Building
Upgrade Monitoring & Security System                Fire Department
School Department                                   Repair Ceilings
Upgrade & Replace Main Distribution & Sub Panels Bell School
Heating Repairs & Improvements
Building Management. Software, Install Controllers

Article 10 Walls and Fences
Voted: That the sum of $7,500.00 be appropriated for the construction and
reconstruction of walls and fences for the protection of highways and property,
including engineering services in connection therewith; and that the Board of
Selectmen is authorized to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise, any
land or easements necessary therefore.

Article 11 Ocean Avenue Sidewalk, Seawall and Rip Rap Repair
Voted: That the sum of $96,500.00 be appropriated to be expended by the Board of
Selectmen for repairing and/or replacing the sidewalk, seawall and rip rap on Ocean
Avenue adjacent to the land located at 231 Ocean Avenue, including engineering
and legal costs, construction, permitting and all other activities and costs necessary
to carry out the work; and determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by
borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto.

Article 12 Amend General Bylaws to Reduce Quorum at Town Meeting
Voted: That this article be indefinitely postponed.

Article 13 Landfill Regulatory Compliance Activities
Voted: That the sum of $114,600.00 be appropriated to be expended by the Board
of Health for continued water quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk
assessment, engineering, and any other services related to the old landfill;

Article 14 Water Department Construction
Voted: That the sum of $893,505.00 be appropriated, to be taken from Water
Retained Earnings by the Water and Sewer Commission for the construction,
reconstruction and extending of water mains, replacement of water meters,




                                         21
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


appurtenances, engineering, consultants, surveys including revenue studies and
other general Water Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of Water and
Sewer Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any
lands or easements necessary.

Article 15 Sewer Department Construction
Voted: That the sum of $455,880.00 be appropriated, to be taken from Sewer
Retained Earnings to be expended by the Water and Sewer Commission for the
construction or reconstruction of sewers for sanitary purposes and for sewerage
disposal, pump stations, original pumping equipment, metering equipment, safety
equipment, replacement of said equipment, engineering, consultants, surveys,
including revenue studies and other general Sewer Department purposes, and to
authorize the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by purchase,
eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements necessary.

Article 16 Storm Drainage Construction
Voted: That the sum of $332,000.00 is appropriated from taxation for the
construction, reconstruction, permitting and maintenance of storm sewers for
surface drainage and general Drain Department purposes, including engineering
services in connection therewith, and to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to
acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise, any land or easements necessary
therefore, and to raise the money for such purposes by the issue of bonds or notes or
in any other manner, to be expended by the Water and Sewer Commission.

Article 17 Water and Sewer Commission Claims
Voted: To authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the Board of Selectmen
acting jointly to compromise any claims for damages or suits pending against the
Town of Marblehead on account of acts which may have occurred during the
construction of the water, sewer and storm water system.

Article 18 Financial Assistance for Conservation
Voted: To authorize the Conservation Commission and other proper officers of the
Town to apply for financial assistance from public and private sources to be
expended by the Conservation Commission for the purchase of vacant land and any
other purpose, authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General Laws as
amended, or to reimburse the Town for sums of money expended for such purposes,
or both.




                                         22
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Article 19 Ratification of Salary By-Law
Voted: To ratify certain actions taken by the Compensation Committee under
Chapter 43 Section 3(e) as last amended and amend the classification of positions as
follows:
Add positions to the Administrative Pay Scale:
         a. Head, Public Services Library, Grade 53
         b. Head, Technical Services Library, Grade 53
Delete Position on the Administrative Pay Scale:
         a. Assistant Director Library, Grade 54
Reclassify Position on the Administrative Pay Scale:
         a. Office Manager Water/Sewer from Grade 53 to Grade 54

Article 20 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Administrative)
Voted: To amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification and Wage Salary Plan,
by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify certain positions in the
Administrative Pay Schedule; to strike out the pay schedule as it relates to
Administrative personnel and to increase the pay for administrative by 2.5%
effective July 1, 2016.

Article 21 Proposed Pay Schedule and Reclassification (Traffic Supervisors)
Voted: To increase the pay for the Marblehead Traffic Supervisors, 2.5% effective
July 1, 2016.

Article 22 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Seasonal and
Temporary Personnel)
Voted: To waive section 8 of the 1955 Salary By-Laws as last amended by striking
out the pay schedules they relate to Seasonal and Temporary Personnel to increase
pay 2.5% effective July 1, 2016.

Article 23 Compensation - Town Officers
Voted: That the yearly compensation of the Town Officer named in this article be
as follows:

         Town Clerk                                             $76,848.32

Said amount to be in full compensation for services as Town Clerk. All fees
received by the Town Clerk in their official capacity to be accounted for to the
Town Revenue Office. That the Town Clerk as elected and having served in that
position or as a regular full-time employee for five consecutive years, and for each




                                         23
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


applicable additional five years on such basis, shall be paid longevity pay annually,
in addition to her weekly salary.

Eligibility will be determined on November 30 each year and payment made to the
official with the first regular payroll of December of that year. Only those in office
on the determination date and qualified by their consecutive years of service, as
described above, shall receive longevity pay for the calendar year.

         Annual longevity for Town Clerk
         Pay Schedule
         Not less than 5 years         $300.00
         Not less than 10 years          400.00
         Not less than 15 years          500.00
         Not less than 20 years          600.00
         Not less than 25 years          700.00
         30 years and over               800.00

Article 24 Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District
Voted: To approve the gross operating and maintenance budget of the Essex North
Shore Agricultural and Technical School District for the fiscal year commencing
July 1, 2016 and appropriate the sum of $276,467.00 for the Town’s assessment of
the same.

Article 25 Allocation of Bond Premium to Debt Excluded Project Costs
Counted Vote:
In Favor 773      Against 2
2/3 Vote Achieved
Voted: That the Town appropriate $754,495.62 the aggregate net premium paid to
the Town upon the sale of bonds issued to pay costs of the drainage, landfill and
Abbot Hall Clock Tower projects, each of which are the subject of a Proposition 2½
debt exclusion, to pay costs of such projects being financed by such bonds, and to
reduce the amount authorized to be permanently financed for such projects by the
same aggregate amount, as allocable to each project.

Article 26 Available Funds Appropriate to Reduce Tax Rate
Voted: That the sum of $6,355,000.00 be appropriated for the use of the Assessors
in making the Tax Rate.
                 From Free Cash                    $6,025,000.00
                 From Electric Surplus                330,000.00
                                                   $6,355,000.00




                                         24
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016




Article 27 Expenses of Several Departments
Voted: As Printed in the Finance Committee Report

Article 28 Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
Voted: That this article be indefinitely postponed.

Article 29 Acceptance of MGL Chapter 31 Section 58A, Police and Fire
Maximum Age Restrictions
Voted: That the Town accept the provisions of Massachusetts General Law Chapter
31, Section 58A, or take any other action relative thereto.

Article 30 Amend Historic Districts Commission Special Act
Unanimously Voted: To authorize the Board of Selectmen to petition the General
Court of the Commonwealth, pursuant to the Provisions of Section 8 of Article 89
of the Amendments to the State Constitution and all other applicable laws to amend
Chapter 101 of the Acts of 1965, An Act Establishing the Old and Historic District
Commission of the Town of Marblehead, Section 4, by omitting the requirement
that all of the membership of the commission reside in an historic district and by
amending section 8 to allow a longer period of time upon which to make a
determination of estates effected, as follows:

AN ACT AMENDING CHAPTER 101 OF THE ACTS OF 1965, AN ACT
ESTABLISHING THE OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION OF
THE TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in the General Court
assembled and by authority of the same as follows:

SECTION 1. Amend Chapter 101 of the Acts of 1965, An Act Establishing the Old
and Historic Districts Commission of the Town of Marblehead as follows:

    a.   by omitting the second part of the second sentence in Section 4. Which
         now reads; “Each member shall be a resident of the town of Marblehead
         and shall reside in an historic district established under this act.”

         To read instead; “Each member shall be a resident of the town of
         Marblehead and shall reside in the historic district established under
         this act except the Board of Selectmen may appoint no more than one
         member from outside of an historic district.”




                                       25
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



    b.   by changing the second word in Section 8 which now reads: “Within ten
         days….”
         To read instead; “Within twenty-one (21) days…”

SECTION 2. This Act shall take effect upon its passage.

SECTION 3. The General Court may reasonably vary the form and substance of the
requested legislation within the scope of the general public objectives of this
petition.

Or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 31 Abandon Portion of Public Way
Counted Vote:
In Favor 800      Against 15
2/3 Vote Achieved
Voted: To abandon a certain portion of Colgate Road as a public way as more fully
set forth on the plan entitled “Rights Plan” and dated April 7, 2015 by Hayes
Engineering, and indicated as “Portion to be Abandoned” including 10,541 sq. ft.
+/-

Article 32 Sell Town Property
Counted Vote:
In Favor 800      Against 15
2/3 Vote Achieved
Voted: To authorize the Board of Selectmen to sell a portion of Colgate Road as
more fully set forth on the plan entitled “Rights Plan” and dated April 7, 2015 by
Hayes Engineering, and indicated as “Portion to be Abandoned” including 10,541
sq. ft. +/-.

Article 33 Purchase of Pumper Truck for Fire Department
Counted Voted:
In Favor 725      Against 12
Voted: That the sum of $620,000.00 be appropriated to be expended by the Board
of Selectmen for the purpose of purchasing a pumper fire truck and related
equipment for the fire department; that to meet said appropriation, the Town
Treasurer, with the approval of the Board of Selectmen, is authorized to borrow said
sum under M.G.L. c 44, s. 7(9), or any other enabling authority, and to issue bonds
or notes of the Town therefor; and further provided, that said appropriation shall be




                                         26
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


subject to and contingent upon an affirmative vote of the Town to exempt the
amounts required for the payment of interest and principal on said borrowing from
the limitation on taxes imposed by M.G.L. c. 59, s. 21C(proposition 2/12)

Article 34 Gerry School Feasibility Study
Counted Vote:
In Favor 680      Against 18
Voted: That the Town of Marblehead appropriate the sum of $750,000.00 for the
purpose of paying costs of undertaking a feasibility study to analyze in-depth the
design options and costs for renovation and /or reconstruction of the Elbridge Gerry
School, which study shall explore and investigate the advantages and/or
disadvantages of district reorganization options, for the Elbridge Gerry School,
located at 50 Elm St., in Marblehead, Massachusetts, including the payment of all
costs incidental or related thereto, and for which the Town may be eligible for a
grant from the Massachusetts School Building Authority (“MSBA”), said amount to
be expended under the direction of the Elbridge Gerry School Building Committee.
To meet this appropriation, the Town Treasurer, with the approval of the Board of
Selectmen, is authorized to borrow said amount under and pursuant to M.G.L. c. 44,
or pursuant to any other enabling authority. The Town acknowledges that the
MSBA’s grant program is a non-entitlement, discretionary program based on need,
as determined by the MSBA, and any costs the Town incurs in excess of any grant
approved by and received from MSBA shall be the sole responsibility of the Town,
and further provided, that the appropriation hereunder shall be subject to and
contingent upon an affirmative vote of the Town to exempt the amounts required
for the payment of interest and principal on said borrowing from the limitations on
taxes imposed by M.G.L. c. 59, s. 21C(Proposition 2/12), and that the amount of
borrowing authorized pursuant to this vote shall be reduced by any grant amount set
forth in the Feasibility Study Agreement that may be executed between the Town
and the MSBA.

Article 35 Expenses for Holiday Decorations
Counted Vote:
In Favor 313      Against 17
Voted: That this article be indefinitely postponed.


At 10:50 PM the Moderator dissolved the 2016 Annual Town Meeting.




                                         27
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                         Marblehead Massachusetts
                           Annual Town Election
                          Tuesday, May 10th, 2016

The Number of Votes Cast where as follows:

Precinct 1               711              27.7% of 2,566 Registered Voters
Precinct 2               652              24.7% of 2,638 Registered Voters
Precinct 3               475              19.8% of 2,401 Registered Voters
Precinct 4               549              20.8% of 2,636 Registered Voters
Precinct 5               412              16.8% of 2,446 Registered Voters
Precinct 6               496              20.2% of 2,446 Registered Voters
Total                    3,295            21.8% of 15,133 Registered Voters

Canvas Completed at 10:15 pm


                             Selectmen 1 Year Term
 Vote for not more than Five
  Precinct                 1       2      3      4      5        6       Total
  Blanks                 1152    981     819   938     805      831      5526
  Jackie Belf-Becker      475    434     306   343     258      330      2146
  Harry C.                456    456     311   358     235      311      2127
  Christensen, Jr.
  Judith R. Jacobi        511    471     311   378     254       351     2276
  Bret T. Murray          443    433     296   331     224       306     2033
  James E. Nye            512    483     329   394     282       349     2349
  All Others               5       2      3      3      2         2       17
  Total                  3554 3260 2375 2745          2060      2480     16474


                            Town Clerk 3 Year Term
        Vote for not more than One
         Precinct              1   2      3    4   5       6     Total
         Blanks                25  18    30    28 30       23     154
         Robin A. Michaud 299 330 237 270 213             286    1635
         Sally B. Sands       387 304 208 251 169         187    1506
         All Others            0   0      0    0   0       0       0
         Total                711 652 475 549 412         496    3295




                                     28
              MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016




                        Moderator 1 Year Term
    Vote for not more than One
     Precinct           1     2    3     4    5       6     Total
     Blanks            164 139 123 148 122           126     822
     Gary A. Spiess 546 513 352 401 289              370    2471
     All Others         1     0    0     0    1       0       2
     Total             711 652 475 549 412           496    3295


                         Assessors 3 Year Term
    Vote for not more than One
     Precinct             1     2     3    4   5      6      Total
     Blanks              218 165 150 166 146         145      990
     William J. Willis 493 487 325 383 266           351     2305
     All Others           0     0     0    0   0      0        0
     Total               711 652 475 549 412         496     3295


                    Cemetery Commission 3 Year Term
Vote for not more than One
 Precinct                     1    2     3     4    5        6      Total
 Blanks                       94  60    64    68   61        58      405
 Richard F. Coletti          416 438 292 320 224            318     2008
 Rose Ann Wheeler McCarthy 201 154 118 161 126              120      880
 All Others                   0    0     1     0    1        0        2
 Total                       711 652 475 549 412            496     3295


                      Board of Health 3 Year Term
   Vote for not more than One
    Precinct               1    2     3     4    5     6     Total
    Blanks                207 172 174 156 123         140     945
    Helaine R. Hazlett 503 480 328 392 289            355    2347
    All Others             1    0     0     1    0     1       3
    Total                 711 652 475 549 412         496    3295




                                29
              MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016




                   Housing Authority 5 Year Term
   Vote for not more than One
    Precinct             1    2    3     4    5  6        Total
    Blanks              226 172 148 183 151 166           1046
    Jean R. Eldridge 485 480 326 366 261 330              2248
    All Others           0    0    1     0    0  0          1
    Total               711 652 475 549 412 496           3295


              Housing Authority 2 Year Unexpired Term
   Vote for not more than One
    Precinct               1   2    3     4    5    6      Total
    Blanks                235 177 155 191 146 158          1062
    Patricia C. Roberts 476 475 320 358 266 338            2233
    All Others             0   0    0     0    0    0        0
    Total                 711 652 475 549 412 496          3295


              Abbot Public Library Trustees 3 Year Term
Vote for not more than Two
 Precinct                  1     2     3      4     5   6      Total
 Blanks                   854   774 566 648 517 578            3937
 Nancy P. Arata           490   456 316 374        248 331     2215
 David Ross                44    27   28      29    22  33      183
 Elizabeth Ann Lutwak      28    38   36      33    35  47      217
 All Others                6     9     4      14    2   3        38
 Total                   1422 1304 950 1098 824 992            6590


              Municipal Light Commissioner 3 Year Term
  Vote for not more than Two
   Precinct              1     2    3     4      5    6      Total
   Blanks               494   392 323 381 330 339            2259
   Walter E. Homan 472        459 315 354 258 327            2185
   Michael A. Hull      456   452 312 361 236 326            2143
   All Others            0     1    0     2      0    0        3
   Total               1422 1304 950 1098 824 992            6590




                                30
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                           Planning Board 3 Year Term
     Vote for not more than One
      Precinct                     1    2     3     4    5     6      Total
      Blanks                       89   86    53   72    65    63      428
      Edward O. Nilsson           442 373 225 306       198   288     1832
      Philip Angelo Mancuso, Jr. 180 193 197 171        149   145     1035
      All Others                   0    0     0     0    0     0        0
      Total                       711 652 475 549       412   496     3295


                   Recreation and Park Commission 1 Year Term
Vote for not more than Five
 Precinct                        1     2     3       4      5        6      Total
 Blanks                        1317 1051   850     1062   898       938     6116
 Linda A. Rice Collins          457   453  304      349   246       303     2112
 Sam K. Ganglani                424   419  290      320   234       311     1998
 Derek Y. Norcross              475   442  321      356   239       331     2164
 Charles Edward Osborne, 441          442  299      328   219       300     2029
 Jr.
 Gerald P. Tucker, Jr.          441   453  311      327   222        297    2051
 All Others                      0     0     0       3      2         0       5
 Total                         3555 3260 2375 2745 2060             2480    16475


                         School Committee 3 Year Term
Vote for not more than Two
 Precinct                     1     2       3      4     5       6         Total
 Blanks                      555   458    386     453   344     364        2560
 Meredith Tedford            445   443    281     329   249     330        2077
 David E. Harris, Jr.        422   403    283     316   231     298        1953
 All Others                   0     0       0      0     0       0           0
 Total                      1422 1304     950    1098   824     992        6590




                                     31
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                    School Committee 1 Year Unexpired Term
Vote for not more than One
 Precinct                     1      2      3      4      5       6     Total
 Blanks                      148   119      81    77      53      53     531
 Jennifer Anne Schaeffner    389   362     264   341     250     287    1893
 Michael R. Spiewak          174   171     129   131     109     156     870
 All Others                   0      0      1      0      0       0       1
 Total                       711   652     475   549     412     496    3295


                   Water & Sewer Commission 3 Year Term
   Vote for not more than Two
    Precinct                    1    2   3      4     5         6    Total
    Blanks                     567  420 344 429 331            386   2477
    F. Carlton Siegel          463  486 326 355 262            329   2221
    John K. Stanchfield        392  398 279 314 231            277   1891
    All Others                  0    0   1      0     0         0      1
    Total                     1422 1304 950 1098 824           992   6590




                                     32
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
                     WILLIAM FRANCIS GALVIN
                SECRETARY OF THE COMMONWEALTH

County of Essex, SS

To either of the Constables of the /Town of Marblehead

        GREETING:

In the name of the Commonwealth, you are hereby required to notify and warn the
inhabitants of said city or town who are qualified to vote in Primaries to vote at

Precinct 1       Old Town House                              1 Market Square
Precinct 2       The Masonic Temple                          62 Pleasant St.
Precinct 3       The Masonic Temple                          62 Pleasant St.
Precinct 4       The Marblehead Community Center             10 Humphrey St.
Precinct 5       The Marblehead Community Center             10 Humphrey St.
Precinct 6       The Marblehead Community Center             10 Humphrey St.


on TUESDAY, THE FIRST DAY OF MARCH, 2016, from 7:00 A.M. to 8:00
P.M. for the following purpose:


        To cast their votes in the Presidential Primary for the candidates of
        political parties for the following offices:

PRESIDENTIAL PREFERENCE . . . . . . . .FOR THIS COMMONWEALTH
STATE COMMITTEE MAN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . THIRD ESSEX DISTRICT
STATE COMMITTEE WOMAN . . . . . . . . . . . THIRD ESSEX DISTRICT
TOWN COMMITTEE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . MARBLEHEAD




                                       33
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



         Hereof fail not and make return of this warrant with your doings thereon at
the time and place of said voting.

        Given under our hands this 10th day of February, 2016.


Jackie Belf-Becker
Judith R. Jacobi
Bret T. Murray
James Nye

Selectman of the Town of Marblehead


Constable, Douglas W. Perry, February 17, 2016




                                        34
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                            Town of Marblehead
                               State Election
                           Tuesday, March 1, 2016

The Number of Votes Cast where as follows:

Precinct 1      1426             55.7% of 2,562 Registered Voters
Precinct 2      1425             53.9% of 2,646 Registered Voters
Precinct 3      1221             50.9% of 2,398 Registered Voters
Precinct 4      1305             49.7% of 2,626 Registered Voters
Precinct 5      1228             50.6% of 2,429 Registered Voters
Precinct 6      1420             57.8% of 2,455 Registered Voters
Total           8,025            53.1% of 15,116 Registered Voters

Canvas Completed at 10:15 pm

                     Democratic - Presidential Preference
              Precinct            1     2      3     4    5     6      Total
   Blanks                         0     1      2     0    3     4       10
   Bernie Sanders                377 414 352 320 318           381     2162
   Martin O’Malley                3     2      0     3    1     3       12
   Hillary Clinton               455 463 404 449 449           485     2705
   Roque “Rocky” De La Fuente     0     1      0     0    0     0        1
   No Preference                  2     3      4     4    3     2       18
   All Others                     4     2      0     2    1     0        9
   Total                         841 886 762 778 775           875     4917


                      Democratic - State Committee Man
                       Third Essex & Middlesex District
             Precinct        1     2     3    4      5  6      Total
         Blanks            354 371 301 348 325 382             2081
         Robert F. Fennell 486 513 461 428 448 489             2825
         All Others          1     2     0    2      2  4       11
         Total             841 886 762 778 775 875             4917




                                     35
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                     Democratic - State Committee Woman
                       Third Essex & Middlesex District
             Precinct       1      2     3   4     5    6     Total
          Blanks           820 867 737 759 755 855            4793
          Laura E. Walsh    8      7     9   7     7    6      44
          All Others        13    12    16  12     13   14     80
          Total            841 886 762 778 775 875            4917


                        Democratic -Town Committee
                                Marblehead
      Precinct          1     2        3     4      5           6     Total
Blanks                 534   577      475   498    470         543    3097
Group                  306   309      287   280    305         330    1817
Total                  840   886      762   778    775         873    4914

Blanks                17759   19032   15775   16512   15836   17959   102873
Erin E. Brings         338     346     316     307     316     362     1985
Janet E. Brings        340     370     320     309     319     370     2028
Mark W. Brings         334     358     309     298     315     357     1971
James J. Carrigan      333     340     307     302     350     371     2003
Ann E. Dever           361     386     348     341     359     410     2205
Joseph I. Dever        338     364     331     329     349     401     2112
Linda K. Freedman      340     348     332     307     341     378     2046
Max Freedman           328     328     322     301     335     368     1982
Donald W. Gardner,     364     356     317     320     324     378     2059
Jr.
Marybelle B.           359    361      315    314     326      381    2056
Hollister
Walter W. Horan        344    357      334    309     320      373    2037
Renee R. Keaney        340    345      329    312     326      368    2020
Joyce Morgan           320    333      304    294     317      351    1919
Kennard
Rose Ann Wheeler       352    370      326    329     331      391    2099
McCarthy
Ann M. McGreevy        336    357      320    310     323      359    2005
Thomas A.              455    468      424    425     428      488    2688
McNulty
Michael E. Meehan      330    335      309    299     314      371    1958




                                      36
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Jason E. Mondale       341    353      322    307     324     360     2007
Lee Mondale            356    354      319    319     328     358     2034
Ricardo Quiroga        319    329      305    298     316     354     1921
Marilyn J. Segal       351    356      322    338     357     386     2110
Karen R. Byron         322    330      306    298     325     356     1937
Barbara Grenier        332    337      312    305     326     360     1972
Steven A. Levy         323    333      311    300     333     363     1963
Anne E. Sturtevant     343    341      317    304     324     359     1988
Daniel Jay Urman       317    322      299    289     319     350     1896
Linda R. Weltner       400    398      342    364     373     416     2293
Joanne G. Miller       327    340      315    303     328     362     1975
Barbara Shefftz        341    340      310    322     328     364     2005
Joanne C. Smith        327    340      308    315     320     360     1970
Brian H. Hough         322    327      307    307     328     361     1952
Jane Casler            349    351      309    313     321     358     2001
Margaret Atkinson      330    345      306    306     322     353     1962
Herrick
John W. Arata          362     354     315     320     322     363     2036
All Others              1       6       4       0       1       3       15
Total                 29434   31010   26667   27226   27124   30622   172083




                                      37
           MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


              Republican - Presidential Preference
      Precinct       1     2     3      4     5    6       Total
  Blanks             2     1     2      2     0    1          8
  Jim Gilmore        0     0     0      0     0    0          0
  Donald J. Trump 208 245 209 178 193 198                  1231
  Ted Cruz          28     28    38    36    28    37       195
  George Pataki      1     0     1      1     0    0          3
  Ben Carson         6     4     9     10    10    8         47
  Mike Huckabee      1     0     0      2     0    0          3
  Rand Paul          1     3     3      0     0    1          8
  Carly Fiorina      1     0     4      0     3    1          9
  Rick Santorium     2     0     0      0     0    0          2
  Chris Christie     3     3     2      0     0    3         11
  Marco Rubio      141 104 81 128 97 146                    697
  Jeb Bush           6     6     2      2     2    9         27
  John R. Kasich   178 134 105 163 113 137                  830
  No Preference      3     0     0      0     1    3          7
  All Others         2     5     3      3     5    1         19
  Total            583 533 459 525 452 545                 3097


               Republican – State Committee Man
                Third Essex & Middlesex District
      Precinct          1     2     3    4       5    6      Total
Blanks                 280 220 186 226 197           220     1329
Stephen M. Zykofsky 302 311 271 298 250              322     1754
All Others              1     2     2    1       5    3       14
Total                  583 533 459 525 452           545     3097


             Republican – State Committee Woman
                Third Essex & Middlesex District
     Precinct        1     2     3    4      5   6      Total
  Blanks            246 186 159 202 185 195             1173
  Amy Carnevale 337 342 299 322 267 347                 1914
  All Others         0     5     1    1      0   3       10
  Total             583 533 459 525 452 545             3097




                              38
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                            Republican – Town Committee
                                     Marblehead
         Precinct             1      2          3       4       5       6      Total
Blanks                       405    374        317     357     306     376     2135
Group                        178    159        142     168     146     169      962
Total                        583    533        459     525     452     545     3097

Blanks                      14505   13215      11256   12721   11053   13344   76094
Walter Rolfe Lofmark         204     177        162     186     163     205     1097
John M. Prindiville          185     170        159     176     150     183     1023
Jean R. Eldridge             246     245        181     201     177     208     1258
Jacqueline M. Williams       209     208        166     193     158     192     1126
Mary Y. Armistead            189     173        149     185     157     183     1036
Amy Carnevale                227     220        189     233     167     227     1263
Anthony J. Chamay            194     170        154     187     153     177     1035
Michael Syversen             186     168        156     179     154     197     1040
Josephine A. DelVento        205     189        170     197     165     193     1119
Peter Nicolas                198     176        153     188     177     196     1088
Joyce H. Lofmark             196     177        154     187     167     194     1075
Sharon D. Randall            199     187        161     199     165     201     1112
Daniel W. Shea               204     188        165     196     162     197     1112
Robert A. Erbetta            235     203        190     229     178     219     1254
Sara M. Bull                 198     186        167     198     160     199     1108
Donald A. Doliber            252     241        197     224     196     240     1350
Kenneth M. Luker             190     168        152     181     148     178     1017
John Read                    192     174        150     181     149     180     1026
Kevin R. McCarthy            199     188        172     202     166     208     1135
Barton K. Hyte               187     169        156     183     158     191     1044
John Blaisdell               255     235        209     224     185     231     1339
Jill Hart                    195     174        152     185     153     184     1043
Michele A. Martin            187     182        156     184     151     191     1051
Robert T. Bryne              190     175        159     184     151     182     1041
Jonathan S. Lederman         205     185        175     208     196     207     1176
J. Timothy Swigor            190     169        150     183     152     178     1022
Michael A. Janko             195     171        157     193     170     190     1076
Meredith Ann Morris          193     174        155     184     166     189     1061
Lena A. Robinson             195     187        185     200     162     206     1135
All Others                    0       5          2       4      11       5       27
Total                       20405   18649      16059   18375   15820   19075   108383




                                          39
      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


 United Independent Party - Presidential Preference
       Precinct    1 2 3 4 5 6 Total
    Blanks         0 1 0 0 0 0              1
    No Preference 0 0 0 0 0 0               0
    All Others     1 4 0 1 0 0              6
    Total          1 5 0 1 0 0              7


 United Independent Party – State Committee Man
          Third Essex & Middlesex District
      Precinct 1 2 3 4 5 6 Total
      Blanks      1 4 0 1 0 0              6
      All Others 0 1 0 0 0 0               1
      Total       1 5 0 1 0 0              7


United Independent Party – State Committee Woman
          Third Essex & Middlesex District
       Precinct 1 2 3 4 5 6 Total
      Blanks      1 5 0 1 0 0              7
      All Others 0 0 0 0 0 0               0
      Total       1 5 0 1 0 0              7


       Green-Rainbow - Presidential Preference
         Precinct    1 2 3 4 5 6 Total
   Blanks            0 0 0 0 0 0              0
   Sedinam Curry     0 0 0 0 1 0              1
   Jill Stein        0 0 0 1 0 0              1
   William P. Kreml 0 0 0 0 0 0               0
   Kent Mesplay      0 0 0 0 0 0              0
   Darryl Cherney    0 0 0 0 0 0              0
   No Preference     1 0 0 0 0 0              1
   All Others        0 1 0 0 0 0              1
   Total             1 1 0 1 1 0              4




                        40
 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


 Green-Rainbow – State Committee Man
     Third Essex & Middlesex District
  Precinct 1 2 3 4 5 6 Total
 Blanks      1 1 0 1 1 0              4
 All Others 0 0 0 0 0 0               0
 Total       1 1 0 1 1 0              4


Green-Rainbow – State Committee Woman
     Third Essex & Middlesex District
  Precinct 1 2 3 4 5 6 Total
 Blanks      1 1 0 1 1 0              4
 All Others 0 0 0 0 0 0               0
 Total       1 1 0 1 1 0              4




                  41
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
County of Essex, ss
to Any Constable in the Town of Marblehead
Greeting:

         You are hereby required and directed in the name of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts to notify and warn the Inhabitants of the Town of Marblehead
aforesaid who are qualified to vote in elections and in Town affairs to meet at the
several designated polling places in their respective precincts in said Marblehead to
wit:

In Precinct 1 - Polling Place –
OLD TOWN HOUSE
1 Market Square
In Precinct 2 - Polling Place –
MASONIC TEMPLE
62 Pleasant Street
In Precinct 3 - Polling Place –
MASONIC TEMPLE
62 Pleasant Street
In Precinct 4 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
10 Humphrey Street
In Precinct 5 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
10 Humphrey Street
In Precinct 6 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
10 Humphrey Street

On the 14th day of June, 2016 A.D. (it being the second Tuesday in June) at 7
o’clock in the forenoon then and there to bring into the precinct officers of their
respective precincts their votes on one ballot for the following Questions to wit:

Question 1: Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the
provisions of proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay
for the bonds issued for the purpose of paying costs of undertaking a feasibility
study to analyze in-depth the design options and costs for the renovation and/or
reconstruction of the Elbridge Gerry School, which study shall explore and
investigate the advantages and/or disadvantages of district reorganization options,




                                         42
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


for the Elbridge Gerry School, located at 50 Elm St, in Marblehead, Massachusetts,
including the payment of all costs incidental or related thereto, as approved under
Article 34 of the warrant at the 2016 Annual Town Meeting?

YES_________ NO_________

Question 2: Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the
provisions of proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay
for the bonds issued for the purchase of a pumper fire truck and related equipment
for the fire department, as approved under Article 33 of the 2016 Annual Town
Meeting?

YES_________ NO_________

For these purposes the polls will be open at each and all of said precincts at 7
o’clock in the forenoon and will be closed at 8 o’clock in the afternoon at each and
all of said precincts and you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested
copies thereof at Abbot Hall and ten (10) other conspicuous places in Town as
required by the By-laws not later than thirty (30) days after being closed.

Hereof fail not and make due return of this Warrant or a certified copy thereof with
our doings thereon, to each of the several precinct wardens at the time and place of
meetings aforesaid and to the Town Clerk as soon as may be before the said
meetings.

Given under our hands at Marblehead aforesaid this 6th day of May 2016.

JACKIE BELF-BECKER, Chair
JUDITH R. JACOBI
BRET T. MURRAY
JAMES E. NYE

Selectmen of Marblehead




A True Copy
Attest: Douglas W. Perry, Constable, May 6, 2016.




                                        43
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                     Town of Marblehead, Massachusetts
                           Special Town Election
                           Tuesday June 14, 2016

The Number of Votes Cast where as follows:

Precinct 1                 684              26.5% of 2,585 Registered Voters
Precinct 2                 602              22.7% of 2,652 Registered Voters
Precinct 3                 424              17.5% of 2,424 Registered Voters
Precinct 4                 449              16.9% of 2,653 Registered Voters
Precinct 5                 403              16.4% of 2,457 Registered Voters
Precinct 6                 494              20.0% of 2,461 Registered Voters
Total                      3056             21.5% of 15,232 Registered Voters

Canvas Completed at 9:00 pm

                                    Question 1
         Precinct     1        2      3      4      5       6     Total
         Blanks       1        3      0      1      0       0       5
         Yes         512      428    284    291    294     367    2176
         No          171      171    140    157    109     127     875
         Total       684      602    424    449    403     494    3056


                                    Question 2
         Precinct     1        2      3      4      5       6     Total
         Blanks       8        5      1      5      4       2       25
         Yes         546      470    334    339    314     400    2403
         No          130      127     89    105     85      92     628
         Total       684      602    424    449    403     494    3056




                                       44
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                  COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
                       WILLIAM FRANCIS GALVIN
                  SECRETARY OF THE COMMONWEALTH

County of Essex, SS
To the Constables of the Town of Marblehead

         GREETINGS:
In the name of the Commonwealth, you are hereby required to notify and warn the
inhabitants of said city or town who are qualified to vote in Primaries to vote at:

Precinct 1     The Town House                                     1 Market Square
Precinct 2     The Masonic Temple                                62 Pleasant Street
Precinct 3     The Masonic Temple                                62 Pleasant Street
Precinct 4     The Marblehead Community Center                 10 Humphrey Street
Precinct 5     The Marblehead Community Center                 10 Humphrey Street
Precinct 6     The Marblehead Community Center                 10 Humphrey Street

On THURSDAY, THE EIGHTH DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 2016, from 7:00 A.M.
to 8:00 P.M. for the following purpose:

To cast their votes in the State Primaries for the candidates of political parties for
the following offices:

REPRESENTATIVE IN CONGRESS                               SIXTH DISTRICT
COUNCILLOR                                               SIXTH DISTRICT
SENATOR IN GENERAL COURT                                 EIGHT ESSEX DISTRICT
REPRESENTATIVE IN GENERAL COURT                          EIGHTH ESSEX DISTRICT
SHERIFF                                                  ESSEX COUNTY




                                           45
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



Hereof fail not and make return of this warrant with your doings thereon at the time
and place of said voting.

Given under our hands this 17th day of August, 2016.


JACKIE BELF-BECKER, Chair
JUDITH R. JACOBI
BRET T. MURRAY

Selectmen of the Town of Marblehead

Constable, Paul Minsky, August 29th, 2016.




                                         46
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


               COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
                       STATE PRIMARY
                  TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2016

The Number of Votes Cast were as follows:
Precinct 1     375               14.2% of 2,636 Registered Voters
Precinct 2     293               10.8% of 2,705 Registered Voters
Precinct 3     214               8.8% of 2,437 Registered Voters
Precinct 4     272               10.1% of 2,693 Registered Voters
Precinct 5     247               9.9% of 2,495 Registered Voters
Precinct 6     259               10.4% of 2,495Registered Voters
Total          1660              10.7% of 15,461 Registered Voters

Canvas Completed at 9:30 pm

              Democratic Representative in Congress 6th District
             Precinct      1     2     3     4     5      6    Total
         Blanks            17   17     20    16   15     17      102
         Seth W. Moulton 263 183 146 189 167 178 1126
         All Others        0     1     0     4     2      2       9
         Total            280 201 166 209 184 197 1237


                       Democratic Councillor 6th District
             Precinct         1     2     3      4      5    6    Total
       Blanks                 56    32    26     38    28    32    212
       Terrence W. Kennedy 201 148 126 153 136              150    914
       Stephen Borelli        13    6     11     8      8    9      55
       Richard J. Dimeo       10    15    3      8     12    6      54
       All Others             0     0     0      2      0    0       2
       Total                 280 201 166 209 184            197   1237


           Democratic Senator in General Court 3rd Essex District
       Precinct         1      2      3       4        5        6         Total
Blanks                 55     33      30      29       28       27         202
Thomas M. McGee       225    168     136     179      156      170        1034
All Others              0      0      0       1        0        0           1
Total                 280    201     166     209      184      197        1237




                                     47
           MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


 Democratic Representative in General Court 8th Essex District
     Precinct      1     2     3     4    5      6    Total
  Blanks           34    27    20   24    20     26    151
  Lori A. Ehrlich 246 174 146 183 163 171 1083
  All Others       0     0     0     2    1      0      3
  Total           280 201 166 209 184 197 1237

                Democratic Sheriff Essex County
       Precinct          1   2      3     4    5     6     Total
Blanks                   17  19     9    19   14     7       85
William Castro           7   7      5     2    4     2       27
Kevin F. Coppinger      111 60     56    70   62     90     449
Michael J. Marks         50  38    35    44   38     42     247
Edward J. O’Reilly       86  59    50    66   57     52     370
Jerry P. Robito          3   4      4     2    4     3       20
Paul L. D. Russell, Jr.  6   14     7     3    4     0       34
All Others               0   0      0     3    1     1        5
Total                   280 201 166 209 184         197    1237


      Republican Representative in Congress 6th District
        Precinct   1    2    3    4   5    6 Total
       Blanks     92 91 48 52 62 59 404
       All Others 3     1    0    9   1    3     17
       Total      95 92 48 61 63 62 421


               Republican Councillor 6th District
        Precinct    1    2   3     4    5    6 Total
        Blanks     95 92 48 57 63 62 417
        All Others 0     0   0     4    0    0    4
        Total      95 92 48 61 63 62 421

    Republican Senator in General Court 3rd Essex District
        Precinct   1     2   3    4   5     6 Total
       Blanks      93 92 48 58 62 62 415
       All Others 2      0   0    3   1     0     6
       Total       95 92 48 61 63 62 421




                              48
           MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Republican Representative in General Court 8th Essex District
       Precinct   1     2    3   4    5   6 Total
       Blanks     93 92 48 59 61 60 413
       All Others 2     0    0   2    2   2      8
       Total      95 92 48 61 63 62 421


                Republican Sheriff Essex County
         Precinct           1    2    3    4   5   6    Total
Blanks                      1    1    1    1   1   1       6
Kenneth H. Berg             39 45 25 22 26         20    177
Jeffrey J. Gallo            10 2      5    5   1   3      26
James P. Jajuga, Jr.        10 7      4    8   8   10     47
Craig G. Lane               5    5    1    5   5   4      25
Anne M. Manning-Martin 27 31 12 20 20              24    134
All Others                  3    1    0    0   2   0       6
Total                       95 92 48 61 63         62    421


  United Independent Representative in Congress 6th District
            Precinct 1 2 3 4 5 6 Total
           Blanks     0 0 0 0 0 0            0
           All Others 0 0 0 2 0 0            2
           Total      0 0 0 2 0 0            2


          United Independent Councillor 6th District
           Precinct 1 2 3 4 5 6 Total
           Blanks     0 0 0 0 0 0              0
           All Others 0 0 0 2 0 0              2
           Total      0 0 0 2 0 0              2


United Independent Senator in General Court 3rd Essex District
            Precinct 1 2 3 4 5 6 Total
           Blanks     0 0 0 0 0 0             0
           All Others 0 0 0 2 0 0             2
           Total      0 0 0 2 0 0             2




                             49
              MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


United Independent Representative in General Court 8th Essex District
              Precinct 1 2 3 4 5 6 Total
              Blanks     0 0 0 0 0 0             0
              All Others 0 0 0 2 0 0             2
              Total      0 0 0 2 0 0             2


              United Independent Sheriff Essex County
               Precinct 1 2 3 4 5 6 Total
               Blanks     0 0 0 0 0 0            0
               All Others 0 0 0 2 0 0            2
               Total      0 0 0 2 0 0            2


       Green-Rainbow Representative in Congress 6th District
              Precinct 1 2 3 4 5 6 Total
             Blanks     0 0 0 0 0 0             0
             All Others 0 0 0 0 0 0             0
             Total      0 0 0 0 0 0             0


                Green-Rainbow Councilor 6th District
               Precinct 1 2 3 4 5 6 Total
               Blanks     0 0 0 0 0 0            0
               All Others 0 0 0 0 0 0            0
               Total      0 0 0 0 0 0            0


     Green-Rainbow Senator in General Court 3rd Essex District
              Precinct 1 2 3 4 5 6 Total
             Blanks     0 0 0 0 0 0             0
             All Others 0 0 0 0 0 0             0
             Total      0 0 0 0 0 0             0

 Green-Rainbow Representative in General Court 8th Essex District
             Precinct 1 2 3 4 5 6 Total
            Blanks     0 0 0 0 0 0             0
            All Others 0 0 0 0 0 0             0
            Total      0 0 0 0 0 0             0




                                 50
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016




 Green-Rainbow Sheriff Essex County
Precinct 1 2 3 4 5 6 Total
Blanks     0 0 0 0 0 0           0
All Others 0 0 0 0 0 0           0
Total      0 0 0 0 0 0           0




                51
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                  COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
                       WILLIAM FRANCIS GALVIN
                  SECRETARY OF THE COMMONWEALTH

County of Essex, SS
To the Constables of the Town of Marblehead

         GREETINGS:
In the name of the Commonwealth, you are hereby required to notify and warn the
inhabitants of said city or town who are qualified to vote in the State Election to
vote at:

Precinct 1     The Town House                                      1 Market Square
Precinct 2     The Masonic Temple                                62 Pleasant Street
Precinct 3     The Masonic Temple                                 62 Pleasant Street
Precinct 4     The Marblehead Community Center                  10 Humphrey Street
Precinct 5     The Marblehead Community Center                  10 Humphrey Street
Precinct 6     The Marblehead Community Center                  10 Humphrey Street

on TUESDAY, THE EIGHTH DAY OF NOVEMBER, 2016, from 7:00 A.M. to
8:00 P.M. for the following purpose:

To cast their votes in the State Election for the candidates for the following offices
and questions:

ELECTORS OF PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT                  FOR THIS COMMONWEALTH
REPRESENTATIVE IN CONGRESS                                SIXTH DISTRICT
COUNCILLOR                                                SIXTH DISTRICT
SENATOR IN GENERAL COURT                                  EIGHT ESSEX DISTRIC
REPRESENTATIVE IN GENERAL COURT                           EIGHTH ESSEX DISTRICT
SHERIF                                                    ESSEX COUNTY

QUESTION 1: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the
Senate or the House of Representatives on or before May 3, 2016?
                                         SUMMARY
This proposed law would allow the state Gaming Commission to issue one
additional category 2 license, which would permit operation of a gaming
establishment with no table games and not more than 1,250 slot machines. The
proposed law would authorize the Commission to request applications for the
additional license to be granted to a gaming establishment located on property that
is (i) at least four acres in size; (ii) adjacent to and within 1,500 feet of a race track,




                                           52
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


including the track's additional facilities, such as the track, grounds, paddocks,
barns, auditorium, amphitheater, and bleachers; (iii) where a horse racing meeting
may physically be held; (iv) where a horse racing meeting shall have been hosted;
and (v) not separated from the race track by a highway or railway.
A YES VOTE would permit the state Gaming Commission to license one
additional slot-machine gaming establishment at a location that meets certain
conditions specified in the law.
A NO VOTE would make no change in current laws regarding gaming.

QUESTION 2: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the
Senate or the House of Representatives on or before May 3, 2016?
                                    SUMMARY
This proposed law would allow the state Board of Elementary and Secondary
Education to approve up to 12 new charter schools or enrollment expansions in
existing charter schools each year. Approvals under this law could expand statewide
charter school enrollment by up to 1% of the total statewide public school
enrollment each year. New charters and enrollment expansions approved under this
law would be exempt from existing limits on the number of charter schools, the
number of students enrolled in them, and the amount of local school districts'
spending allocated to them.
If the Board received more than 12 applications in a single year from qualified
applicants, then the proposed law would require it to give priority to proposed
charter schools or enrollment expansions in districts where student performance on
statewide assessments is in the bottom 25% of all districts in the previous two years
and where demonstrated parent demand for additional public school options is
greatest.
New charter schools and enrollment expansions approved under this proposed law
would be subject to the same approval standards as other charter schools, and to
recruitment, retention, and multilingual outreach requirements that currently apply
to some charter schools. Schools authorized under this law would be subject to
annual performance reviews according to standards established by the Board.
The proposed law would take effect on January 1, 2017.
A YES VOTE would allow for up to 12 approvals each year of either new charter
schools or expanded enrollments in existing charter schools, but not to exceed 1%
of the statewide public school enrollment.
A NO VOTE would make no change in current laws relative to charter schools.




                                        53
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


QUESTION 3: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the
Senate or the House of Representatives on or before May 3, 2016?
                                      SUMMARY
This proposed law would prohibit any farm owner or operator from knowingly
confining any breeding pig, calf raised for veal, or egg-laying hen in a way that
prevents the animal from lying down, standing up, fully extending its limbs, or
turning around freely. The proposed law would also prohibit any business owner or
operator in Massachusetts from selling whole eggs intended for human consumption
or any uncooked cut of veal or pork if the business owner or operator knows or
should know that the hen, breeding pig, or veal calf that produced these products
was confined in a manner prohibited by the proposed law. The proposed law would
exempt sales of food products that combine veal or pork with other products,
including soups, sandwiches, pizzas, hotdogs, or similar processed or prepared food
items.
The proposed law's confinement prohibitions would not apply during transportation;
state and county fair exhibitions; 4-H programs; slaughter in compliance with
applicable laws and regulations; medical research; veterinary exams, testing,
treatment and operation if performed under the direct supervision of a licensed
veterinarian; five days prior to a pregnant pig's expected date of giving birth; any
day that pig is nursing piglets; and for temporary periods for animal husbandry
purposes not to exceed six hours in any twenty-four hour period.
The proposed law would create a civil penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation and
would give the Attorney General the exclusive authority to enforce the law, and to
issue regulations to implement it. As a defense to enforcement proceedings, the
proposed law would allow a business owner or operator to rely in good faith upon a
written certification or guarantee of compliance by a supplier.
The proposed law would be in addition to any other animal welfare laws and would
not prohibit stricter local laws.
The proposed law would take effect on January 1, 2022. The proposed law states
that if any of its parts were declared invalid, the other parts would stay in effect.
A YES VOTE would prohibit any confinement of pigs, calves, and hens that
prevents them from lying down, standing up, fully extending their limbs, or turning
around freely.
A NO VOTE would make no change in current laws relative to the keeping of farm
animals.

QUESTION 4: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the
Senate or the House of Representatives on or before May 3, 2016?




                                         54
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                                     SUMMARY
The proposed law would permit the possession, use, distribution, and cultivation of
marijuana in limited amounts by persons age 21 and older and would remove
criminal penalties for such activities. It would provide for the regulation of
commerce in marijuana, marijuana accessories, and marijuana products and for the
taxation of proceeds from sales of these items.
The proposed law would authorize persons at least 21 years old to possess up to one
ounce of marijuana outside of their residences; possess up to ten ounces of
marijuana inside their residences; grow up to six marijuana plants in their
residences; give one ounce or less of marijuana to a person at least 21 years old
without payment; possess, produce or transfer hemp; or make or transfer items
related to marijuana use, storage, cultivation, or processing.
The measure would create a Cannabis Control Commission of three members
appointed by the state Treasurer which would generally administer the law
governing marijuana use and distribution, promulgate regulations, and be
responsible for the licensing of marijuana commercial establishments. The proposed
law would also create a Cannabis Advisory Board of fifteen members appointed by
the Governor. The Cannabis Control Commission would adopt regulations
governing licensing qualifications; security; record keeping; health and safety
standards; packaging and labeling; testing; advertising and displays; required
inspections; and such other matters as the Commission considers appropriate. The
records of the Commission would be public records. The proposed law would
authorize cities and towns to adopt reasonable restrictions on the time, place, and
manner of operating marijuana businesses and to limit the number of marijuana
establishments in their communities. A city or town could hold a local vote to
determine whether to permit the selling of marijuana and marijuana products for
consumption on the premises at commercial establishments.
The proceeds of retail sales of marijuana and marijuana products would be subject
to the state sales tax and an additional excise tax of 3.75%. A city or town could
impose a separate tax of up to 2%. Revenue received from the additional state
excise tax or from license application fees and civil penalties for violations of this
law would be deposited in a Marijuana Regulation Fund and would be used subject
to appropriation for administration of the proposed law.
Marijuana-related activities authorized under this proposed law could not be a basis
for adverse orders in child welfare cases absent clear and convincing evidence that
such activities had created an unreasonable danger to the safety of a minor child.
The proposed law would not affect existing law regarding medical marijuana
treatment centers or the operation of motor vehicles while under the influence. It
would permit property owners to prohibit the use, sale, or production of marijuana
on their premises (with an exception that landlords cannot prohibit consumption by




                                         55
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


tenants of marijuana by means other than by smoking); and would permit employers
to prohibit the consumption of marijuana by employees in the workplace. State and
local governments could continue to restrict uses in public buildings or at or near
schools. Supplying marijuana to persons under age 21 would be unlawful.
The proposed law would take effect on December 15, 2016.
A YES VOTE would allow persons 21 and older to possess, use, and transfer
marijuana and products containing marijuana concentrate (including edible
products) and to cultivate marijuana, all in limited amounts, and would provide for
the regulation and taxation of commercial sale of marijuana and marijuana products.
A NO VOTE would make no change in current laws relative to marijuana.

Hereof fail not and make return of this warrant with your doings thereon at the time
and place of said voting.

Given under our hands this 5th day of October, 2016.

Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
Judith R. Jacobi
James E. Nye
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
Bret T. Murray

Selectmen of The Town Of Marblehead

Constable, Douglas W. Perry, October 17, 2016




                                        56
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                         Commonwealth of Massachusetts
                                 State Election
                           Tuesday, November 8, 2016

The Number of Votes Cast were as follows:
Precinct 1     2238              83.0% of 2,698 Registered Voters
Precinct 2     2305              82.6% of 2,790 Registered Voters
Precinct 3     2052              82.1% of 2,499 Registered Voters
Precinct 4     2288              83.5% of 2,739 Registered Voters
Precinct 5     2112              83.4% of 2,532 Registered Voters
Precinct 6     2163              84.8% of 2,550 Registered Voters
Total          13158             83.2% of 15,808 Registered Voters

Canvas Completed at 9:30 pm

                    Electors of President and Vice President
         Precinct                1      2      3      4      5     6     Total
Blanks                          44     57     33     48      40    35     257
Clinton & Kaine                1420 1440 1235 1376 1322           1318   8110
(Democratic)
Johnson & Weld                 105    125     97    120     92     126    665
(Libertarian)
Stein & Baraka (Green-          17     24     21     16     17     22     117
Rainbow)
Trump & Pence                  614    629    623    674     608    611    3759
(Republican)
Evan McMullen                   4      0      6      8      4      4       26
All Others                      34     30     37     46     29     47     223
Total                          2238   2305   2052   2288   2112   2163   13158

                        Representative in Congress
                               Sixth District
         Precinct           1       2       3    4           5      6    Total
Blanks                     431     404     374  396         393    399   2397
Seth Moulton (Democratic) 1794 1883 1660 1873              1702   1740   10652
All Others                  13      18      18   19          17     24    109
Total                     2238 2305 2052 2288              2112   2163   13158




                                      57
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                                   Councilor
                                  Sixth District
           Precinct             1       2        3     4      5      6    Total
 Blanks                        709     640     579    686    580    641   3835
 Terrence W. Kennedy          1523 1653 1462         1591   1526   1509   9264
 (Democratic)
 All Others                    6       12      11     11     6      13     59
 Total                        2238    2305    2052   2288   2112   2163   13158

                           Senator in General Court
                              Third Essex District
           Precinct             1      2       3     4        5      6    Total
 Blanks                        695    631    550    676      557    611   3720
 Thomas M. McGee              1534 1662 1493 1601           1544   1542   9376
 (Democratic)
 All Others                    9       12      9      11     11     10     62
 Total                        2238    2305    2052   2288   2112   2163   13158

                        Representative in General Court
                              Eighth Essex District
           Precinct             1      2       3     4        5      6    Total
 Blanks                        574    567    514    585      450    541   3231
 Lori A. Ehrlich (Democratic) 1658 1727 1528 1689           1646   1608   9856
 All Other                      6      11     10     14       16     14    71
 Total                        2238 2305 2052 2288           2112   2163   13158

                                  Sheriff
                               Essex County
         Precinct           1      2       3          4       5     6     Total
Blanks                     323    344     306        322     280   293    1868
Kevin F. Coppinger         951   1034     944        939    1010   980    5858
(Democratic)
Anne M. Manning-Martin     709       679     607     782    606    691     4074
(Republican)
Mark E. Archer              82        84      78      66     80     71     461
(Independent)
Kevin J. Leach             172       161     115     178    129    126     881
(Independent)
All Other                   1         3       2       1      7      2       16
Total                      2238      2305    2052    2288   2112   2163   13158




                                       58
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


QUESTION 1: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the
Senate or the House of Representatives on or before May 3, 2016?
                                         SUMMARY
This proposed law would allow the state Gaming Commission to issue one
additional category 2 license, which would permit operation of a gaming
establishment with no table games and not more than 1,250 slot machines. The
proposed law would authorize the Commission to request applications for the
additional license to be granted to a gaming establishment located on property that
is (i) at least four acres in size; (ii) adjacent to and within 1,500 feet of a race track,
including the track's additional facilities, such as the track, grounds, paddocks,
barns, auditorium, amphitheatre, and bleachers; (iii) where a horse racing meeting
may physically be held; (iv) where a horse racing meeting shall have been hosted;
and (v) not separated from the race track by a highway or railway.
A YES VOTE would permit the state Gaming Commission to license one
additional slot-machine gaming establishment at a location that meets certain
conditions specified in the law.
A NO VOTE would make no change in current laws regarding gaming.

           Precinct      1       2        3       4       5       6      Total
           Blanks       114     100       88      82      91      71      546
           YES          524     701      635     583     641     611     3695
           NO          1600    1504     1329    1623    1380    1481     8917
           Total       2238    2305     2052    2288    2112    2163     13158

QUESTION 2: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the
Senate or the House of Representatives on or before May 3, 2016?
                                    SUMMARY
This proposed law would allow the state Board of Elementary and Secondary
Education to approve up to 12 new charter schools or enrollment expansions in
existing charter schools each year. Approvals under this law could expand statewide
charter school enrollment by up to 1% of the total statewide public school
enrollment each year. New charters and enrollment expansions approved under this
law would be exempt from existing limits on the number of charter schools, the
number of students enrolled in them, and the amount of local school districts'
spending allocated to them.
If the Board received more than 12 applications in a single year from qualified
applicants, then the proposed law would require it to give priority to proposed
charter schools or enrollment expansions in districts where student performance on




                                           59
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


statewide assessments is in the bottom 25% of all districts in the previous two years
and where demonstrated parent demand for additional public school options is
greatest.
New charter schools and enrollment expansions approved under this proposed law
would be subject to the same approval standards as other charter schools, and to
recruitment, retention, and multilingual outreach requirements that currently apply
to some charter schools. Schools authorized under this law would be subject to
annual performance reviews according to standards established by the Board.
The proposed law would take effect on January 1, 2017.
A YES VOTE would allow for up to 12 approvals each year of either new charter
schools or expanded enrollments in existing charter schools, but not to exceed 1%
of the statewide public school enrollment.
A NO VOTE would make no change in current laws relative to charter schools.

          Precinct    1       2        3        4      5      6     Total
          Blanks      46      58       48       34     43     33     262
          YES        1192    1066     900     1279    868    918    6223
          NO         1000    1181    1104      975   1201   1212    6673
          Total      2238    2305    2052     2288   2112   2163    13158

QUESTION 3: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the
Senate or the House of Representatives on or before May 3, 2016?
                                    SUMMARY
This proposed law would prohibit any farm owner or operator from knowingly
confining any breeding pig, calf raised for veal, or egg-laying hen in a way that
prevents the animal from lying down, standing up, fully extending its limbs, or
turning around freely. The proposed law would also prohibit any business owner or
operator in Massachusetts from selling whole eggs intended for human consumption
or any uncooked cut of veal or pork if the business owner or operator knows or
should know that the hen, breeding pig, or veal calf that produced these products
was confined in a manner prohibited by the proposed law. The proposed law would
exempt sales of food products that combine veal or pork with other products,
including soups, sandwiches, pizzas, hotdogs, or similar processed or prepared food
items.
The proposed law's confinement prohibitions would not apply during transportation;
state and county fair exhibitions; 4-H programs; slaughter in compliance with
applicable laws and regulations; medical research; veterinary exams, testing,
treatment and operation if performed under the direct supervision of a licensed
veterinarian; five days prior to a pregnant pig's expected date of giving birth; any




                                         60
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


day that pig is nursing piglets; and for temporary periods for animal husbandry
purposes not to exceed six hours in any twenty-four hour period.
The proposed law would create a civil penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation and
would give the Attorney General the exclusive authority to enforce the law, and to
issue regulations to implement it. As a defense to enforcement proceedings, the
proposed law would allow a business owner or operator to rely in good faith upon a
written certification or guarantee of compliance by a supplier.
The proposed law would be in addition to any other animal welfare laws and would
not prohibit stricter local laws.
The proposed law would take effect on January 1, 2022. The proposed law states
that if any of its parts were declared invalid, the other parts would stay in effect.
A YES VOTE would prohibit any confinement of pigs, calves, and hens that
prevents them from lying down, standing up, fully extending their limbs, or turning
around freely.
A NO VOTE would make no change in current laws relative to the keeping of farm
animals.

          Precinct     1       2       3        4      5      6     Total
          Blanks       72      63      50       53     51     33     322
          YES        1791    1891    1622     1770   1668   1690    10432
          NO          375     351     380      465    393    440    2404
          Total      2238    2305    2052     2288   2112   2163    13158

QUESTION 4: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the
Senate or the House of Representatives on or before May 3, 2016?
                                     SUMMARY
The proposed law would permit the possession, use, distribution, and cultivation of
marijuana in limited amounts by persons age 21 and older and would remove
criminal penalties for such activities. It would provide for the regulation of
commerce in marijuana, marijuana accessories, and marijuana products and for the
taxation of proceeds from sales of these items.
The proposed law would authorize persons at least 21 years old to possess up to one
ounce of marijuana outside of their residences; possess up to ten ounces of
marijuana inside their residences; grow up to six marijuana plants in their
residences; give one ounce or less of marijuana to a person at least 21 years old
without payment; possess, produce or transfer hemp; or make or transfer items
related to marijuana use, storage, cultivation, or processing.
The measure would create a Cannabis Control Commission of three members
appointed by the state Treasurer which would generally administer the law




                                         61
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


governing marijuana use and distribution, promulgate regulations, and be
responsible for the licensing of marijuana commercial establishments. The proposed
law would also create a Cannabis Advisory Board of fifteen members appointed by
the Governor. The Cannabis Control Commission would adopt regulations
governing licensing qualifications; security; record keeping; health and safety
standards; packaging and labeling; testing; advertising and displays; required
inspections; and such other matters as the Commission considers appropriate. The
records of the Commission would be public records.
The proposed law would authorize cities and towns to adopt reasonable restrictions
on the time, place, and manner of operating marijuana businesses and to limit the
number of marijuana establishments in their communities. A city or town could
hold a local vote to determine whether to permit the selling of marijuana and
marijuana products for consumption on the premises at commercial establishments.
The proceeds of retail sales of marijuana and marijuana products would be subject
to the state sales tax and an additional excise tax of 3.75%. A city or town could
impose a separate tax of up to 2%. Revenue received from the additional state
excise tax or from license application fees and civil penalties for violations of this
law would be deposited in a Marijuana Regulation Fund and would be used subject
to appropriation for administration of the proposed law.
Marijuana-related activities authorized under this proposed law could not be a basis
for adverse orders in child welfare cases absent clear and convincing evidence that
such activities had created an unreasonable danger to the safety of a minor child.
The proposed law would not affect existing law regarding medical marijuana
treatment centers or the operation of motor vehicles while under the influence. It
would permit property owners to prohibit the use, sale, or production of marijuana
on their premises (with an exception that landlords cannot prohibit consumption by
tenants of marijuana by means other than by smoking); and would permit employers
to prohibit the consumption of marijuana by employees in the workplace. State and
local governments could continue to restrict uses in public buildings or at or near
schools. Supplying marijuana to persons under age 21 would be unlawful.
The proposed law would take effect on December 15, 2016.




                                         62
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


A YES VOTE would allow persons 21 and older to possess, use, and transfer
marijuana and products containing marijuana concentrate (including edible
products) and to cultivate marijuana, all in limited amounts, and would provide for
the regulation and taxation of commercial sale of marijuana and marijuana products.
A NO VOTE would make no change in current laws relative to marijuana.


          Precinct    1       2       3       4      5      6     Total
          Blanks      42      42      47      32     28     28     219
          YES        1109    1249   1093     1140   1031   1055   6677
          NO         1087    1014    912     1116   1053   1080   6262
          Total      2238    2305   2052     2288   2112   2163   13158




                                        63
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


         TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD ELECTED OFFICIALS 2016

SELECTMAN
--Abbot Hall, Marblehead, MA 01945                       Term Expires
Jackie Belf-Becker - Chair                                  2017
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.                                   2017
Judith R. Jacobi                                            2017
Bret T. Murray                                              2017
James E. Nye                                                2017

MODERATOR
                                                          Term Expires
Gary A. Spiess                                               2017

TOWN CLERK
--Abbot Hall, Marblehead, MA 01945                        Term Expires
Robin A. Michaud                                            2019

ASSESSORS
--Mary A. Alley Building, Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                          Term Expires
John P. Kelley                                               2017
William J. Willis                                            2019
Douglas E. Percy                                             2018

CEMETERY COMMISSION
--Waterside Cemetery, Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                         Term Expires
William Henry James                                         2017
Richard F. Coletti                                          2019
Matthew Wolverton                                           2018

BOARD OF HEALTH
--Mary A. Alley Building, Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                           Term Expires
Todd Belfbecker                                              2017
Helaine Hazlett                                               2019
Michelle B. Gottlieb                                          2018




                                     64
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


HOUSING AUTHORITY
--26 Rowland Street, Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                             Term Expires
Jean R. Eldridge                                               2021
Joan D. Cutler                                                  2020
Pamela J. Foye                                                  2019
Patricia Roberts                                                2018

TRUSTEES OF ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY
--235 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA 01945                 Term Expires
Ann M McGreevy                                                 2017
Zachary Newell                                                 2017
Nancy P. Arata                                                 2019
Elizabeth Lutwak                                               2019
Lauren French Fogle(resigned)                                  2018
Phyllis B. Smith                                               2018

MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSIONER
-80 Commercial St., Marblehead, MA 01945                    Term Expires
Michael Anthony Tumulty                                         2017
Michael A. Hull                                                 2019
Walter E. Homan                                                 2019
Joseph T. Kowalik, Jr.                                          2018
Michael Maccario                                                2018

PLANNING BOARD
--c/o Engineering Office, Mary A. Alley Building, Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                               Term Expires
Philip Helmes                                                     2017
Robert J. Schaeffner                                             2017
Edward Nilsson                                                    2019
James Bishop                                                     2018
Barton Hyte                                                      2018

RECREATION & PARK COMMISSION
--Marblehead Community Center, 10 Humphrey Street, Marblehead, MA
                                                         Term Expires
Linda A. Rice Collins                                       2017
Sam K. Ganglani                                             2017
Derek Y. Norcross                                           2017




                                    65
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Charles Edward Osborne, Jr.                                 2017
Gerald P. Tucker, Jr.                                       2017

SCHOOL COMMITTEE
--Mary A. Alley Building, Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                          Term Expires
Jennifer Anne Schaeffner-                                    2017
Susanna Pierce Pratt                                         2017
Meredith M. Tedford                                          2019
David E. Harris, Jr.                                         2019
Kate B. Lipsitz                                              2018

WATER & SEWER COMMISSION
--Tower Way, Marblehead MA 01945                         Term Expires
John P. Doane                                               2017
Bradford Nick Freeman, Jr.                                  2017
John K. Stanchfield (Resigned 11/2/2016)                    2019
F. Carlton Siegel                                           2019
Mark J. Fulton                                              2018




                                      66
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                         APPOINTED OFFICIALS

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR
John J. McGinn

AMERICAN DISABILITIES ACT COORDINATOR
Kyle A. Wiley                                      2017

ANIMAL INSPECTOR at $2,400 per year
Dr. Jeffrey Rockwell                               2017
Annie Rockwell                                     2017
Sheena Sweeney                                     2017

BUILDING COMMISSIONER AND INSPECTORS
Commissioner - Richard Baldacci                    2017
Local Inspector - Chris Butler                     2017
Local Inspector – Dan R. Williams                  2017
Plumbing Inspector – Bradford Smith                2017
Assistant Plumbing Inspector – Peter McCarriston   2017
Assistant Plumbing Inspector – Greg DiGiovanni     2017
Wiring Inspector – Ronald J. Marks                 2017
Assistant Wiring Inspector – Eric F.S. Chisholm    2017

CANINE CONTROL CLERK
Robin Michaud – Town Clerk                         2019

ASSISTANT DOG OFFICERS FOR THE PARKS
Robert Gillis                                      2017
Peter James                                        2017
Brad Delisle                                       2017
Greg Snow                                          2017
John Morris                                        2017
Paul Acciavatti                                    2017
Travis Farley                                      2017
Tim Short                                          2017

TOWN COUNSEL at $2,000 per year
Jeffrey N. Shribman                                2017
         Assistant Town Counsel:
         Brody, Hardoon, Perkins & Kesten          2017




                                     67
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


        Leonard Kesten                             2017
        Marc J. Miller                             2017
        Patrick J. Costello                        2017
        Blatman, Bobrowski & Mead, LLC             2017
        Francis Mayo                               2017
        Deutsch Williams                           2017
        William H. Solomon                         2017

COUNCIL ON AGING DIRECTOR
Lisa Hooper                                        2017

EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR
Charles P. Cerrutti                                2017
Chief Jason R. Gilliland, Assistant                2017

FLAG OFFICER
David C. Rodgers                                   2017

FOREST WARDEN – Term: 1 Year
Chief Jason R. Gilliland, Fire Department          2017

HARBOR MASTER AND ASSISTANTS
Webb Russell, Harbor Master                        2017
       Craig Smith, First Assistant Harbormaster   2017
       Daniel Roads Jr., Assistant Harbormaster    2017

        Assistant Harbormasters (Seasonal):
        John Payne                                 2017
        Charles Cullanie                           2017
        Ryan Hoey                                  2017
        Daniel Cahoon                              2017
        Jack Loveday                               2017
        Alternates:
        John Vigneron                              2017
        Allen Dennis                               2017
        Felix Amsler                               2017
        Jeffrey Flynn                              2017

KEEPER OF THE LOCK UP                              2017
Chief Robert O. Picariello




                                        68
              MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016




LICENSING AUTHORITY, DULY DESIGNATED AGENTS
Police Chief Robert O. Picariello                 2017
Captain: Matthew Freeman                          2017
Lieutenants:
           Jonathan Lunt                          2017
           Michael Everett                        2017
           David Ostrovitz                        2017
           Sean Sweeney                           2017
Sergeants:
           Nicholas Economou                      2017
           Sean Brady                             2017
           Jason Conrad                           2017
           Eric Osattin                           2017

MEASURER OF LEATHER – Term: 1 year
John Smidt                                        2017

TOWN DESIGNEE MASS. WATER RESOURCE AUTHORITY
Term: 1 year
F. Carlton Siegel                                 2017
Alternate: Amy McHugh, Water and Sewer Commission 2017

PARKING CLERK /HEARING CLERK – Term: 1 year
Jeffrey N. Shribman                               2017

CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER
Rebecca Curran Cutting                            2017

PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
Arthur Graves                                     2017

RETIREMENT BOARD – Term: 1 year
Charles H. Gessner                                2017

 “RIGHT TO KNOW” COORDINATOR – Term: 1 year
Jason R. Gilliland – Fire Department              2017

SEALER OF WEIGHTS & MEASURES
David C. Rodgers                                  2017




                             69
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016




SPECIAL AUXILIARY POLICE
Patrolmen:
          James Donovan                             2017
          Betsy Cruger                              2017

SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS
Richard Baldacci                                    2017

TAX COLLECTOR/TREASURER
Patricia Kelly Murray                               2017

TOWN ENGINEER
Charles Quigley                                     2017

VETERANS’ AGENT & DIRECTOR OF VETERANS’ SERVICES
Term: 1 year
David C. Rodgers                               2017

VETERANS’ GRAVES OFFICER Term: 1 year
David C. Rodgers                                    2017

WORKERS’ COMPENSATION AGENT Term: 1 year
Massachusetts Interlocal Insurance Association      2017

TOWN ACCOUNTANT– Term 3 years
Alison Nieto                                        2018

AFFORDABLE HOUSING TRUST FUND – Term 1 year
Board of Selectmen                                  2017
Vacant, Finance Committee Representative            2017
Kurt James, Fair Housing Committee Representative   2017
Megan DeGrass                                       2017
Vacant, At Large                                    2017

ARMED FORCES LIAISON– Term: 1 year
Harry C. Christensen                                2017

BOARD OF ABBOT LIBRARY SECOND CENTURY FUND –Term: 1 year
Peter Jalbert                                  2017




                                70
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Judith Eissner                                                   2017

CABLE TELEVISION ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Wayne Avridson                                                   2017
Ruth Ferguson                                                    2017
David Patten                                                     2017
Robert Peck, Chair                                               2017
Steve Clay                                                       2017
Frank Kelley                                                     2017
Ken Lord, School Representative                                  2017

CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE – Term: 3 years (staggered)
Thomas Gawrys                                          2018
Edward Lang                                            2018
Victor Wild                                            2018
VACANT                                                 2019
VACANT                                                 2019
Alison Nieto – Ex Officio                              2017

CO-CARETAKER, FORT BEACH – Term: 1 year
Jeffrey P. Flynn                                                 2017
Douglas Percy                                                    2017

CHAPLAIN – MARBLEHEAD POLICE DEPARTMENT – Term: 1 year
Rabbi Jonas Goldberg                            2017

CONSERVATION COMMISSION – Term: 3 years (staggered)
David Depew                                                      2018
David VanHoven                                                   2018
Michael Smith                                                    2018
Frederick Sullivan                                               2019
Jesse Harlan Alderman                                            2019
Barbara Collins Rosenberg                                        2019
Brian LeClair                                                    2017

CONSTABLES
     x for the Purpose of Serving Civil Process – Term: 1 year
Douglas Perry                                                    2017
Donald B. Hurwitz                                                2017
Paul Minsky                                                      2017




                                     71
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Matthew G. Christensen                             2017
Darryl Hines                                       2017
Mark Ianuzzi                                       2017

CONSTABLES
   x Shellfish
Wayne O. Attridge – Chief Constable - 3 yr. term   2019

Term: 1 Year
Raymond H. Bates, Jr.                              2017
David Donahue                                      2017
Jeffrey Flynn                                      2017
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.                          2017
Jack Attridge                                      2017
Rick Cuzner                                        2017
Craig Smith                                        2017
Douglas Aikman                                     2017
Douglas Percy                                      2017
F. Webb Russell                                    2017
Eric Hawley                                        2017

COUNCIL ON AGING – Term: 3 years
Maureen Horan                                      2017
Rosaleen Doherty                                   2017
Pam Foye                                           2017
Clyde Elledge                                      2018
Joan Shea                                          2018
Ed Bell                                            2018
Thomas Gawrys                                      2019
Freda Hoyt McGuire                                 2019
Peggy Munro                                        2019

DESIGN REVIEW BOARD – Term: 3 years
Ralph Khouri                                       2017

DOLLARS FOR SCHOLARS – Term: 1 year
Helaine Hazlett                                    2017
Nancy Marrs                                        2017
Tom Despres                                        2017
George Gearhart                                    2017




                                      72
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Mary Ellen Hart                                   2017
Day Newburg                                       2017
Todd Zion                                         2017
Kristin Norman                                    2017
Maryann Perry, School Superintendent              2017

EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES COUNCIL – Term: 1 year
Jason R. Gilliland– Marblehead Fire Department    2017

FAIR HOUSING COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Ben Day, Marblehead Counseling Center             2017
Virginia Healy-Kenney                             2017
Ann Cohen                                         2017
Don Davies resigned 10.15.16                      2017
Janet Robinson                                    2017
Raquel Moscarelli                                 2017
Alex Finigan                                      2017
Mimi Hollister                                    2017
Jim Vipperman                                     2017
Kurt James                                        2017
Andrew Hare                                       2017
Mark Podgur                                       2017

FENCE VIEWERS – Term: 1 year
Vacant                                            2017

FINANCE COMMITTEE – Term: 3 years
Moses Grader                                      2017
Richard Doron                                     2017
W. Paul Pruett                                    2017
Blair Nelson                                      2018
Pat Franklin     Appointed 6.24.15                2018
Benjamin S. Berman                                2018
Kevin Brodrick Appointed 8.10.16                  2019
Matthew Herring                                   2019
Emily Belfbecker                                  2019
Robert Ross – Clerk

FIREWORKS COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Alexander Falk                                    2017




                                       73
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



FORT SEWALL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
VACANT, Marblehead Museum and Historical Society       2017
Joyce Booth, Historical Commission                     2017
Brenda Arnold (OMIA Rep.)                              2017
Vacant (OHDC Rep.)                                     2017
Rebecca Curran Cutting, Town Planner                   2017
Tim Short, Recreation and Parks Department             2017
Larry Sands, Glover’s Regiment                         2017
Judy Anderson, At Large                                2017
Ed Lang, At Large                                      2017
Vacant – Disabilities Commission                       2017

HARBORS & WATERS BOARD – Term: 1 year
John Doub                                              2017
Gary P. Gregory                                        2017
Jay Michaud                                            2017
Kenneth Breen                                          2017
Douglas O’Leary                                        2017
Alternates:
                Rick Williams                          2017
                Rick Cuzner                            2017
                T. Clark Smith                         2017

HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
TEAM - Term: 1 year
Charles P. Cerrutti, Emergency Management Director          2017
Charles Quigley, Engineering and Conservation Administrator 2017
Amy McHugh, Superintendent, Water and Sewer Commission      2017
Rebecca Curran Cutting, Town Planner                        2017
William E. Conly, Historical Commission                     2017

HISTORIAN – Term: 1 year
Donald Doliber                                         2017

HISTORICAL COMMISSION – Term: 3 years (staggered)
William E. Conly                                       2019
Douglas O’Leary                                        2019
Paul C. Johnston                                       2017
Peter Stacey                                           2017




                                74
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Don Gardner                                           2017
Joyce L. Booth                                        2018
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.                             2018
William E. Conly                                      2019
Douglas O’Leary                                       2019

HOBBS MEMORIAL, SELECTMEN’S AGENT – Term: 1 year
Ben Day                                               2017

LOGAN AIRPORT COMMUNITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE, INC. (CAC)
Charles H. Gessner                           2017

MARBLEHEAD CULTURAL COUNCIL – Term: 3 years (staggered)
Vacant                                               2019
Vacant                                               2019
Vacant                                               2019
Louise Weber                                         2019
Vacant                                               2017
Vacant                                               2017
Howard Rosenkrantz                                   2017
Hazel Grenham, Chair                                 2017
Jonathan Green                                       2018
Virginia von Rueden                                  2018
Joyce Mayer Clark                                    2018
Vacant                                               2018

MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY ACCESS AND MEDIA, INC. Term: 3 years
Ed Bell                                        2018

MARBLEHEAD DISABILITIES COMMISSION – Term: 3 years (staggered)
Cheryl LaLonde Appointed 7.20.16                     2019
Andrea Mountain                                      2019
Caroline Curtis                                      2019
Lloyd Caswell                                        2017
Katie Farrell                                        2017
Laurie Blaisdell                                     2017
Ed Lang                                              2018
Fraffie Welch                                        2018
Debbie Essig      Appointed 7.20.16                  2018
(Elected Official rotating)                          2017




                                75
              MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



MARBLEHEAD FOREVER COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Fraffie Welch                                       2017
Andrew G. Christensen                               2017
Linda W. Doliber                                    2017
Kerry O’Shaughnessy                                 2017
Kyle A. Wiley                                       2017

MASSACHUSETTS ETHICS COMMISSION
MUNICIPAL LIAISON
Jeffrey N. Shribman                                 2017

MBTA ADVISORY BOARD – Term: 1 year
VACANT                                              2017

MASSACHUSETTS PORT AUTHORITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE-
Term 1 year
Charles Gessner                             2017

METROPOLITAN AREA PLANNING COUNCIL – Term: 3 years
James E. Bishop                                    2017
Rebecca Curran Cutting, Alternate                  2017

OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISSION– Term: 1 year
Liz Mitchell                                        2017
Gary Amberik                                        2017
Charles Hibbard                                     2017
Sally Sands                                         2017
Anthony M. Sasso                                    2017
         Alternates:
         Vacant                                     2017
         Vacant                                     2017
OLD BURIAL HILL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Bette Hunt                                          2017
Standley Goodwin Appointed 8.10.16                  2017
Chris Butler                                        2017
Pam Peterson                                        2017
Richard Coletti, Cemetery Representative            2017
Rebecca Curran Cutting, Town Planner                2017




                             76
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


PLANNING BOARD – Term: 3 Years
Rosanna Ferranti, Associated member                   2017

REGISTRARS OF VOTERS– Term: 3 years
Robin Michaud (Town Clerk)                            2019
Daniel Shea (R)                                       2019
Anthony Chamay (R) Appointed 10.19.16                 2018
Walter Horan (D)                                      2017
Joyce Lofmark (R)    Resigned 8.4.16

SISTER CITY LIAISON – Grasse, France – Term: 1 year
Myriam Zuber                                          2017

SMART GROWTH COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Vacant                                                2017
Kurt James                                            2017
Vacant                                                2017
Don Morgan                                            2017
Vacant                                                2017
Vacant                                                2017
Judith R. Jacobi                                      2017
Rebecca Curran Cutting, Town Planner                  2017

TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION – Term: 1 year
Helaine Hazlett                                       2017
Ann Marie Hunter                                      2017
Deacon John E. Whipple                                2017
Vacant                                                2017
Loren Weston                                          2017
Edmund Grogan                                         2017
Sophia Smith, Student Rep                             2017
Vacant, Student Rep                                   2017
Chief Robert Picariello, Ex-officio                   2017

TAXATION AID COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Pamela Foye                                           2017
Lisa Hooper                                           2017
Patricia Kelly Murray, Treasurer                      2017
John Kelley, Chairman Board of Assessors              2017




                                      77
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



TOWN PHYSICIAN – Term: 1 year
Quadrant Health Strategies                                      2017

TRAFFIC & SAFETY ADVISORY COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
John P. Doane                                                    2017
Brian Hitchcock resigned 9.1.16                                  2017
F. Carlton Siegel                                                2017
Chief Jason R. Gilliland – Fire Department – Ex Officio          2017
Chief Robert O. Picariello – Police Department – Ex Officio 2017

TREE WARDEN - Term: 3 years
Doug Gordon                                                     2018

ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS – Term: 5 years (staggered)
Alan Lipkind                                                    2018
William R. Moriarty                                             2019
Bill Barlow                                                     2020
David Tubridy                                                   2021
Leon Drachman                                                   2017
      Alternates – Term: 1 year
      VACANT                                                    2017
      Christopher T. Casey                                      2017
      Bruce Krasker                                             2017
      Jim Rudolph                                               2017




                                    78
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


  Vital Records Recorded in 2016


      Births Recorded - 125


     Marriages Recorded - 53


      Deaths Recorded – 178




               79
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                       ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY

On Sunday, December 18, 2016, the community was invited to the Abbot Library’s
“Renovation Celebration” Open House, an event marking the culmination of an
exciting and productive year of further developing our plans to provide a state-of-
the-art facility for Marblehead’s public library. The dramatic improvements to the
Children’s Room, Meeting Room, Back Entrance and Lobby Area, and the Front
Entrance Foyer, presented on this occasion, were undertaken after gathering
important information regarding our current site, design and cost options for a major
renovation/construction project, and funding sources, especially State funding, for
any such major project.

In March, Building Enclosure Associates (BEA) submitted its final “Report on
Evaluation of Moisture Penetration Issues,” for the Library’s site. As summarized in
the Report, “The water penetration issues at the Abbot Public Library are inherent to
high water table at the site and the construction of the building addition without
proper accommodation for ground water as well as deficiencies in site drainage that
allows surface runoff, during heavy rain and flash flood conditions, to breach the
building envelope and cause flooding of the lower level.” As mentioned in the
Library’s 2015 Annual Report, BEA retained a geotechnical engineer, Haley &
Aldrich (H&A), Boston, to evaluate water penetration issues related to the high
water table, and a civil engineer, Vanasse Hangen Brustlin (VHB), of Watertown, to
evaluate the vulnerability of the basement level to flooding from surface runoff.

According to the Report, full remediation of the issues resulting from the high water
table can be accomplished only by complete removal of the under-building slab, and
the installation of a new underslab drainage system -- a very disruptive and costly
project. The Report’s proposals for improving our site drainage, however, are less
costly, and we are moving forward to implement these. In August, the Town
Highway Department added a raised apron at the top of our Maverick St. driveway,
to deter rainwater from entering the driveway, and we will be requesting funds from
the Town, for FY 2018, to put in the recommended new catch basin structure at the
driveway entrance.

The Board and Director continued to work with Schwartz/Silver, the architectural
firm hired in 2015, to explore ways to remodel and/or expand the Library’s space.
In April, the Board once more reviewed the several renovation and/or new
construction options developed by Schwartz/Silver. The project costs for these




                                         80
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


designs ranged from $16 million to $25 million, mainly determined by total square
footage.

Hearing these cost estimates provided an extra incentive to invite Rosemary Waltos,
Library Building Specialist at the Massachusetts Board of Library Commissioners,
to the July 12th Trustee Meeting, to explain the process for pursuing State funding
for any future building project. The first step in the process would be to submit our
application for a Planning and Design Grant, expected to be open for applications in
2018. Assuming success in receiving a Planning and Design Grant, we then would
be prepared to apply for a Construction Grant, which typically funds 40-50% of a
project's cost and is expected to be open for applications in 2020.

As it became clear that we were unlikely to actually begin a major building
renovation or construction project before the year 2022, we decided to embark on
some near-term improvements, rather than stay “on hold” for five or more years.
Toward this goal, the Board approved the investment of a portion of our private
funds, to upgrade the Children’s Room, Meeting Room and front and back entrance
areas.

Krisha Plauché, owner of Onboard Interiors, in Marblehead, was hired as design
consultant for the project. An award-winning designer of custom marine interiors
for private and commercial upscale power and sailboats, Krisha is expert in working
with materials resistant to any environmental moisture. The renovation project,
from design through implementation, ran from mid-April to late December, with the
Library remaining open for services the entire time. We thank the Library’s patrons
for their patience and flexibility during the various modifications to service
locations and limited use of the parking lot, caused by the renovation project.
Similarly, we thank the Library staff for its commitment to maintaining services and
demonstrating a positive attitude throughout the project.

The total cost of the project was $220,000.00, provided entirely by private funds.
Accumulated distributions from the Oliver P. Killam Memorial Trust were the
primary source of funding for the Children’s Room renovation, following the
donor’s directive to use these funds in support of the Library’s Youth Services.
Improvements to the Meeting Room were funded by a generous grant of $15,000.00
from the W. Bradford Ingalls Charitable Foundation and by funds from the Robert
Morse Fund, received in 2015.

A nautical theme and related color schemes were unifying elements for the project’s
multiple locations. In the Children’s Room, marine and aqua blues, combined with




                                         81
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


accents of “life-jacket orange” and lime green, create a welcoming and cheerful
setting, with a coastal reference, for children’s services, collections and programs.
Special carpet tiles, particularly suited to the conditions of our site, cover the entire
floor area and extend to cover the concrete steps that previously had been unusable.
A flexible activity area has been defined in the space in front of these stairs, with a
mix of attractive tables and chairs. Two beautiful window seats have been added,
with an ornamental awning over the seat looking out on Max’s Garden. Columns
wrapped with rope, a dramatic rope fringe, behind the service desk, and a series of
tromp l’oeil portholes, framing Marblehead coastal views, all contribute to the
nautical effect of the Room, as does the whimsical wave pattern, along the bottom
inside edge of the windows, which also lessens awareness of the adjacent parking
lot.

In the lobby area, just outside the Children’s Room, a “mini-café” was created, with
tables and chairs, to make it possible to enjoy a snack while at the Library. The
walls from the back door to the mini-café also were repainted and new signage
installed.
The other large space renovated as part of the project was the lower level Meeting
Room. New flooring was installed to replace three layers of deteriorating tiles.
Although the new floor has the appearance of wood planks, it is a special 100%
waterproof laminate, called “Aqua Step,” which is extremely durable, easy to
maintain, and scratch resistant. Wall surfaces were painted a neutral light sand
color. New window treatments, including valances from fabric with a rope motif,
and light-reducing shades, were added, in place of the old curtains. Most striking is
a custom-made, wall-sized decal, with a Marblehead coastal theme, completely
covering the front wall.
Finally, the front entrance lobby was painted, carpeted and given new window
treatments. Furnishings were upgraded and cloth-covered bulletin boards installed.
The result is a much more attractive and functional main entrance area.

Another space-related project, which, by chance, coincided with the renovation of
the Children’s Room and Meeting Room, was the creation of the Judith and Bruce
Eissner Fine Arts Reading Area – an area next to the last rows of the non-fiction
stacks, on the main level, now set aside for the enjoyment of the exceptional
collection of nearly one thousand art books and exhibition catalogs donated to the
Library by Judith and Bruce Eissner. Special custom shelving was purchased to
house the collection, and framed posters from the Metropolitan Museum of Art
enhance the experience of using the materials. We were grateful to draw upon the
Virginia A. Carten Fund, in establishing this space to support the appreciation of the




                                          82
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


fine arts. The volumes are non-circulating, so that the full collection can be
available to all.

In addition to the visible improvements made to the facility, described above, other
less visible improvements were made to some of the building’s systems. In May, the
Town provided funds for two new compressors, to restore the functioning of the
Library’s air conditioning system, in preparation for the summer season. The
system had failed part way through the summer of 2015. Two circulating pumps for
the heating system also were replaced, as well as one of the two sewage tank ejector
pumps.

The most disruptive building system problem was a pair of incidents involving
sewage backup and overflow, at the conclusion of 2015 and the beginning of 2016,
which required the assistance of ASAP Drains and ServPro Cleaning and
Restoration Services. Once the drains had been cleared of blockages and the
affected spaces had been fully sanitized, the Town’s insurance company, MIIA,
determined that part of the ceiling and one wall, on the lower level, should be
replaced. This final step in the restoration work was completed during the week
preceding Labor Day, a time of comparatively low activity in that area of the
building.

Despite the demands of the ongoing renovation project and building repairs, we
continued to offer a full schedule of programs throughout the year.

As mentioned above, a most notable event, of 2016, was the Library’s “Renovation
Celebration” Open House, on Sunday, December 18 th, from 1:00 to 5:00 pm. The
community was invited to see the newly renovated spaces, enjoy refreshments, and
attend any or all of the programs offered during the afternoon: the official
dedication of the Judith and Bruce Eissner Fine Arts Area, at 1:30; the opening of
the Children’s Room, with storyteller Judith Black, at 2:30; the opening of the
exhibit, “The Fabric of Storytelling" : Artwork by Katya Bessmertnaya, with the
opportunity to meet the artist, from 2:30 to 3:30; and, at 3:30, a performance by the
Marblehead Veterans Middle School Select Chorus, under the leadership of Bob
Tirelli.

Sixty-four programs for adults were offered, ranging widely in subject matter and
format. Subjects presented included literature, home decorating and organizing,
finance, natural history and gardening, visual arts, music, and technology. Formats
included illustrated talks, discussion groups, workshops, and performances.




                                         83
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Collaborations with local organizations and businesses continued. Among these
were the Marblehead Conservancy, Salem Sound Coastwatch, the Marblehead
Festival of Arts, the Rotary Club of Marblehead Harbor, and Marblehead High
School. In April, the Library collaborated, for the first time, with the Marblehead
Arts Association, to host a presentation by popular local history expert Jim
McAllister, “From Homer to Hartley: Painting on Cape Ann, 1850 - 1940.”

More than 130 programs were offered for children of all ages, from infant to sixth
grade, including regular story hours, interactive music and movement activities,
chess instruction, science and art clubs, drop-in crafts, and more. We look forward
to expanded children’s programming in our renovated Children’s Room.

Our programming for teens was somewhat impacted by a change and gap in
personnel; with our new teen librarian Heather Waddell on board, we anticipate a
very active year for teen programs in 2017.

As in past years, the community benefited from a series of exhibits of artwork, in a
variety of media and styles, presented in the Library’s Virginia A. Carten Gallery:
January /February – “Faraway Places": A Group Show by the Swampscott Arts
Association
March – “Slices of Life: Near and Far”: Paintings by Don Hammontree
April – “Cut, Torn, Painted, and Pasted Papers”: Collages by Suzanne H. Ulrich
May – 2016 Marblehead High School Senior Art Show
June – “Paste, Paint, Print”: Artwork by Jean Fogle
July – Watercolors by Abram Shkolnik: “My Impression of New England and
Beyond”
August – No exhibit, due to building repair work in adjacent area
September – Swampscott Arts Association Autumn Group Show
October – “As We See It”: A Collection of Photographs by Marilyn and Rick
Cloran
November – “Tell Me Something”: Art by Susan J. Schrader
December – “The Fabric of Storytelling”: Artwork by Katya Bessmertnaya

Once again, in 2016, we express our gratitude for the many important contributions
to the Library, by individuals and groups.

We were delighted to receive a most generous donation of $50,000.00 from
Marblehead resident and lifelong library enthusiast Virginia (“Jinny”) Pope. While




                                        84
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


the funds are unrestricted in their use, the Library and Mrs. Pope’s family have
agreed to use a portion of the funds toward a dedicated reading area in the Teen
Room.

Support from The Second Century Fund continues to allow us to offer services that
otherwise would not be affordable. As in previous years, the Second Century Fund
has funded our Overdrive service, which provides downloadable eBooks and
audiobooks for adults, teens and children. In addition, this year, the Second
Century Fund provided funding for us to offer Zinio for Libraries, "the world's
largest newsstand," which makes full-color digital magazines available, anytime and
on any device, with no checkout limits. In our first year, we have offered thirty-
three magazine titles to our patrons, including "The Atlantic," "Car and Driver,"
"Cooks Illustrated," "The New Yorker," "O," "PC Magazine," "Popular Mechanics,"
and "Wired."

Special appreciation goes to the Friends of Abbot Library, who work tirelessly to
present their giant quarterly book sales, as well as seasonal mini sales, which
provide funding for our children's programs, and for our discounted museum passes,
as well as the software that allows these passes to be reserved online.

Volunteers who donate their time to the delivery and pick-up of Library materials
for temporarily or permanently housebound community members make our
"Connecting" service possible. Other volunteers do the sometimes tedious, but
extremely important, work of making sure books are in proper order on the shelves.

We also thank the Driftwood Garden Club for their expert generous care of our
gardens and landscaping. Their additions of beauty to our setting are greatly
enjoyed by all.

Respectfully submitted,
Phyllis Smith, Chairperson
Patricia Rogers, Director




                                        85
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


             ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Phyllis B. Smith, Chair               Term expires 2018
Nancy Perkins Arata, Vice Chair       Term expires 2019
Zach Newell, Secretary                Term expires 2017
Lauren Fogle Boyd (resigned)          Term expires 2018
Elizabeth Lutwak                      Term expires 2019
Dr. Ann M. McGreevy                   Term expires 2017
David Ross (appointed)                Term expires 2017


                     ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY STAFF
Patricia J. Rogers                      Director
Jonathan Randolph                       Head, Public Services
Christine Evans                         Head, Technical Services
Marcia Cannon                           Children’s Librarian
Heather Waddell                         Youth Librarian
Christopher Tremblay                    Adult Librarian
Kara Rudgis                             Senior Clerk
Elena Minayev                           Para-Professional
Catherine Jamieson                      Library Coordinator/Circulation
Cassandra Sprague, Part-Time            Program & Volunteer Coordinator
Anne Thornton                           Library Technician
Stephanie Miller                        Library Tech. Assistant
Kelly Whalen, Part-Time                 Library Tech. Assistant
Carole Brindamour, Part-Time            Sr. Library Assistant
Joan Kessel, Part-Time                  Sr. Library Assistant
Angelique Elser, Temp. Part-Time        Library Assistant
Amber Santman, Temp. Part-Time          Library Assistant
Cassandra Sprague, Temp. Part-Time      Library Assistant
Vacant, Temp. Part-Time                 Library Assistant

                            CUSTODIANS
Richard Leahy                             Custodian

                               PAGES
Kira Goldman                              Amber Santman
David McMenimen                           Samantha Sprague




                                 86
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                         BOARD OF ASSESSORS

Under State mandated legislation, the Board of Assessors is responsible for the full
and fair market valuation of real and personal property for the purposes of levying
the property tax as of January 1 every year.

The Board consists of a three member elected panel with one seat up for renewal
every year. In 2016, Bill Willis was elected to his second 3 year term.

The assessing staff performs all duties of the department under the supervision and
review of the Board of Assessors. In addition to property valuations, the
department also administers statutory exemptions. Residents who own and occupy
their Marblehead property as their domicile may apply for an exemption as long as
they meet the statutory requirements. Exemptions are available to qualifying
disabled veterans, elderly persons, surviving spouses and the blind.

The department is also responsible for excise taxes for boats and motor vehicles.
Annually the boat owner must file form 2BE in which the information is used in
conjunction with the State formula to determine the tax amount. The motor vehicle
excise tax is based upon the MRSP values provided by Registry of Motor Vehicles.

Massachusetts tax law and guidelines for exemptions are constantly changing.
Effective November 2016, under the quarterly tax billing system, the filing
deadline for tax abatements is February 1st, (third quarter tax bill due date) and
April 1st for statutory exemptions (three months from the mailing of the third
quarter tax bill).

The Board of Assessor’s granted 149 statutory exemptions for a total of
$134,913.05 to qualified applicants and senior work-off volunteers (as of January
2017).

In determining assessed property values, the primary goal of the Board is to ensure
fair and equitable assessments to all taxpayers. Assessments for the average single
family dwelling increased 5.0% to $754,460 and the median single family
assessment increased 6.1% to $578,000. The average tax bill increased 4.2% to
$8,307 and the median single family tax bill increased 5.2% to $6,364. The
classification hearing held on November 16, 2016, resulted in a single tax rate of
$11.01 per thousand of value.




                                        87
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


We urge all taxpayers who may have questions regarding abatements or exemptions
to contact the Assessor’s Office at 781-631-0236.

The following 2 tables show the tax dollars raised. The first table is for property
and the second table is for excise.

REAL & PERSONAL PROPERTY TAX
CLASS             %       of VALUATION                        TAX LEVY
                  CLASS
Residential       94.69%     $5,499,968,414                   $60,554,652.24
Commercial          3.89%    $ 225,864,473                    $ 2,486,767.85
Industrial           .29%    $ 16,577,200                     $ 182,514.97
Personal Property  1.13%     $ 65,849,510                     $ 725,003.11
TOTAL             100%       $5,808,259,600                   $63,948,938.17

EXCISE TAX
MOTOR VEHICLE               # OF BILLS                  TAX ASSESSED
2016 Excise                 21,482                      $3,647,838.61

BOAT                        # OF BILLS                  TAX ASSESSED
2016 Excise                 2072                        $138,002.00


Respectfully Submitted,
Board of Assessors
John P. Kelley, Chairman
William J. Willis, Jr., Secretary
Douglas E. Percy, Board Member
Michael A. Tumulty, MAA, Assistant Assessor

Office Staff
Karen D. Bertolino, Administrative Assessor
Debra J. Long, Senior Clerk




                                        88
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                           BOARD OF HEALTH

 The Board of Health promotes and protects the health, wellness and safety of
 the citizens of Marblehead while ensuring a clean and healthy environment.

The Marblehead Board of Health met in formal session on twenty (20) occasions
including the annual Town Meeting. Meetings were properly and duly posted with
the Town Clerk. BOH members and staff also attended numerous meetings
pertaining to finance, collaboration, communicable disease, bio-terrorism, tobacco
control, grant application, sanitation code updates, environmental issues, continuing
education, emergency preparedness, as well as other public health-related issues
including numerous hours devoted to capping the landfill and building a new
transfer station.

        REPORTED COMMUNICABLE DISEASES – 2016
Babesiosis                                   0
Calcivirus/Norovirus                         0
Campylobacteriosis                           8
Cryptosporidiosis                            0
Cyclospora                                   0
Ehrlichiosis                                 0
Giardiasis                                   2
Group B Streptococcus                        1
Group A Streptococcus                        0
Haemophilus Influenza                        0
Hepatitis A (suspect)                        0
Hepatitis C (chronic)                        6
Human Granulocytic Anaplasmosis              0
Influenza                                    6
Legionellosis                                0
Lyme Disease                                 1
Pertussis                                    3
Salmonellosis                                8
Shigatoxin Producing Organism                1
Shigellosis                                  1
Strep Pneumonia                              2
Toxoplasmosis                                0
Varicella                                    1




                                        89
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Vibrio sp.                                    2
Yersiniosis                                   1

As with all communicable disease reports, an extensive follow-up investigation is
conducted to determine the source and possible cause of the illness. All food-borne
illnesses (Campylobacter, Giardia, Hepatitis A, Salmonella) require public health
response.

                IMMUNIZATIONS GIVEN IN OFFICE
Pneumovax (PPSV)                              0
Hepatitis A                                   0
Hepatitis B                                   0
Influenza                                     46
T dap                                         0
Td                                            0
Varicella                                     0

Due to budget cuts, both at the state and federal level, vaccines are only available to
uninsured or underinsured adults. Influenza immunizations are offered by
appointment only at the Board of Health office.

                        2016 PUBLIC FLU CLINICS
The Marblehead Board of Health was allotted 250 doses of flu vaccine for Children
from the MDPH Immunization program for the 2016 flu season. Additional vaccine
was purchased to vaccinate adult residents. Two Clinics were held in town at
various times, including evenings to accommodate all residents. Office visits were
conducted by appointment.

Employee Clinic October 3                     179
October 21                                     78
Office                                         46

Total Flu Shots given                         307

                   BLOOD PRESSURE SCREENING
BP monitoring is conducted Monday through Friday from 8:00 A.M. to 12:00 noon
at the Board of Health office by appointment only. Additionally, the Public Health




                                         90
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Nurse is at the Marblehead COA on most Thursdays between 11:00 AM-12:00 noon
to conduct a blood pressure clinic.

                      INSPECTIONAL SERVICES
All food service and retail food establishments are required by the MDPH to be
inspected bi-annually. Additionally, walk-through inspections are conducted at the
Board of Health’s discretion. These are a less formal visual inspection for those
establishments about which the Board has received complaints, or those making
physical changes, or for the purpose of addressing any type of problem that may
arise during the year.

Beach samples are taken on a weekly basis from June through September. Test
results were consistently within beach testing standards set forth under 105 CMR
Sect. 445.000 throughout the summer for Devereux Beach, Crocker Park, Gas
House Beach, Grace Oliver’s Beach and Stamski Beach. Public and semipublic
pools are monitored for mandatory on-site quality control and proper management
as required by MA 105 CMR 435.000 Minimum Standards for Swimming Pools.

                     INSPECTIONS CONDUCTED
Nursing Homes                                       2
Food Service Establishments                         66
Retail Food Service Establishments                  37
Houses of Worship                                   7
Private Clubs                                       11
School Cafeterias                                   4
Schools with Satellite Programs                     5
Private Schools                                     1
Carnivals W/3 Mobile Service Units                  4
Ice Cream Trucks                                    2
Mobile Food Service Trucks                          0
Hot Dog Push Carts                                  1
Year-round Swimming Pools                           1
Seasonal Swimming Pools                             6
Bakeries                                            0
Caterers                                            10
Residential Kitchens                                5
Farmers Market                                      21
One Day Permits                                     22




                                       91
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Food Establishment Closing Inspection               10
Food Establishment Opening Inspection               7
New Business/Change of Ownership                    7
Food Inspections                                    240
Re-Inspection Compliance                            44
Foodborne Illness Investigation                     3
Fire Incidents Requiring Inspection                 0
Day Camp Inspections                                14
Water, Beach, Drain & Stream Samples                79
Pool Inspections                                    13
Asbestos Inquiry, Complaints/Removal Of             6
Lead Paint Tests                                    0
Lead Paint Follow-Up                                0
Food and Retail Service Complaints                  3
General Nuisance                                    19
Air, Noise, and Odor Complaints                     10
Housing Complaints                                  12
Exterior Sanding                                    8
Oil Spill Incidents                                 3
Mold                                                2

ORGANIC PEST MANAGEMENT
The Board of Health adopted an Organic Pest Management Policy in 2005 for all
town-owned lands and recommends that residents follow the Board of Health
guidelines for their health and well-being.

SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
Marblehead is continually working to maximize waste reduction, recycling and
composting to ensure the safe management, reuse and disposal of solid and
hazardous waste. It is a difficult task to address the environmental and increasing
cost controls placed on the town by state and federal agencies. We need to focus on
decreasing the amount of waste we generate and increasing the amount we recycle.
     x Marblehead processed 9,606 tons of trash in 2016
     x Marblehead recycled a total of 2541 tons of paper, commingled material,
         cardboard and metal out of the waste stream, realizing diversion savings
         of $180,500.00.
     x 2,250 gallons of waste oil were collected for processing. (This includes
         town garages).




                                        92
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


    x    345 Televisions and 59 Computer Monitors were recycled.
    x   Two Household Hazardous Waste Days were conducted jointly with the
        Town of Swampscott. Materials were collected from over 289 households,
        removing a total of 4,740 gallons/lbs of Hazardous Waste.
    x   9 Tons of electronics were removed from the waste stream and ethically
        recycled.
    x   43,726 lbs of Textiles/Used Clothing were recycled through the clothing
        bin program generating $3,060.82.

COMPOSTING AND YARD WASTE DISPOSAL
The Town collects disposes of and/or composts yard waste and organic matter.
Here are the 2016 organic matter, vegetation, brush, wood waste generation and
processing figures:
    x Leaves & grass: 5,250 cubic yards = 371.00tons.
    x Woodchips (Town Tree Department): 4,800 cubic yards = 1,250 tons.
    x Brush: 1250 cubic yards = 219 tons.

                      RECYCLING COMMITTEE
The Recycling Committee is a valuable volunteer resource for the Town. The
Committee members attending the booth at the Farmers Market who answer
trash/recycling questions as well as sell compost bins, recycling bins and rain
barrels are to be commended. The Committee advocates and supports local
initiatives to promote solid waste reduction, re-use, recycling, composting and
hazardous waste recycling in Marblehead through outreach, education and other
programs and projects. They were of great assistance during the two Household
Hazardous Waste Collection days which included the collection of hazardous waste,
electronics and styrofoam/polystyrene.

Single-use checkout bags and expanded polystyrene food and beverage containers
have significant detrimental impacts on the environment and our health. In 2014
voters at Town Meeting approved the Board of Health’s Article 28 and 29, which
will phase out the point-of-sale plastic bags measuring 2.99 mm or less and
polystyrene containers, respectively. This ban began in May 2015.




                                       93
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



SOLID WASTE FACILITY COMMITTEE
Since its appointment by the Board of Health in the fall of 2010, the Solid Waste
Facility Committee has continued to work diligently to close the landfill and build a
new transfer station. For budgetary reason the project has been split into two
phases: Landfill Closure and Transfer Station Construction. Construction of the
landfill closure began in August of 2014 and was completed in the fall of 2016.
Winter Street Architects were hired to review the transfer station construction and
have reduced the overall size of the building as well as made minor changes which
has reduced the construction costs. We owe this committee of dedicated volunteers
a tremendous amount of gratitude for their time and expertise.

SWAP SHED
Due to construction of the landfill cap and the building of the new transfer station
the Swap Shed has been temporarily closed. We are working diligently to bring
back online this very popular and very useful way to re-use many different types of
household items.

North Shore/Cape Ann Tobacco Alcohol Policy Program
Marblehead 2016 Annual Report
In accordance with grant requirements, the North Shore/Cape Ann Tobacco Alcohol
Policy Program accomplished the following program target and milestones within the
Town of Marblehead.

Compliance Checks:
Date           No. of Violations                             Compliance Achieved
7/18/2016      0 Sales of tobacco to a minor occurred       100% rate was achieved
8/22/2016      0 Sale of tobacco to a minor occurred        100% rate was achieved

Inspections and Pricing Surveys:
In addition to the compliance checks, the North Shore/Cape Ann Tobacco Alcohol Policy
Program conducted one full round of retailer inspections at each permitted establishment
as well as a pricing survey to access pricing trends across the state.

Policy Updates:
4/5/2016      The Board of Health held a Public Hearing and updated Tobacco and
Nicotine regulations, which included raising the minimum legal sales age (MLSA) to




                                          94
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


twenty-one (21) and restricted the sales of flavored tobacco and nicotine products. The
regulation became effective July, 1 2016.

An educational visit was conducted at all permitted tobacco merchants prior to enactment
and one visit conducted post enactment date to ensure compliance.


HAWC (Healing Abuse Working for Change)
FY 2016 REPORT TO TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD
The mission of HAWC, founded in 1978, is to create social change by taking action
against personal and societal patterns of violence and oppression. HAWC provides
services and support to victims of domestic abuse residing in the 23 cities and towns
on the North Shore in order that they may make informed, independent decisions
about their futures.

HAWC provides free, comprehensive services to victims of domestic violence and
their children including: a 24-hour hotline, emergency shelter, advocacy in courts,
police departments and healthcare settings; trauma recovery counseling for adults
and children; support groups; economic stability services; relocation and rental
assistance; prevention education in schools and communities. HAWC has five
office locations (Lynn, Salem, Gloucester, Beverly and Ipswich) with HAWC staff
out-stationed in hospitals, police departments, courts and schools. HAWC’s 24 paid
staff and 80 volunteers (after 40 hours of training) provide free and confidential
services.

If you or someone you know is living in fear of their partner, please call HAWC’s
24-hour, toll-free hotline at 800-547-1649. Contact and understanding from a
person outside the abusive relationship is often the one most important lifeline for a
person getting free from abuse. The more you know the more you see. You can
become part of the solution.


                     MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES
                        FISCAL YEAR 2016
Now in its 47th year, the Marblehead Counseling Center (MCC) has collaborated
with the Board of Health to provide the Town counseling, education and community
services. These services have afforded people the opportunity to work with highly
trained professionals on personal or community issues and concerns. Therapy is




                                          95
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


provided to any resident or town employee regardless of his/her ability to pay a fee.
Over and above the $60,000.00 provided by the Health Department, this year MCC
provided $47,038.00 of free counseling services.

During fiscal year 2016, MCC provided direct therapy to over 312 different
individuals who live or work in Marblehead for a total of 3,765 sessions offered for
individual, couple, family and group counseling. Therapists continued to help
seniors and others in their homes who, because of infirmities, could not make it to
traditional services. In addition, the Center provided wellness classes in anxiety and
depression to seniors at the Marblehead High School in their preparation for
entering college and classes in LGBT education and training.

Sometimes, our neighbors hit hard financial times and families struggle just to
survive. MCC has become a place that people can get connected with resources that
will help them, whether it is paying overdue bills, assistance with housing, or
connections to medical and dental treatment. Throughout last year, 30 families
from our town have received these social services from MCC’s social service
program. The Center also collaborated with the Making Ends Meet's Adopt a
Family program to serve 75 families with a total of 155 children holiday presents.

The Counseling Center has continued to encourage the development of healthy
children in Marblehead. This year the Center has been working with Marblehead
for Teens to develop effective teen programming in town.


NORTH SHORE-CAPE ANN EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
                 COALITION
The North Shore-Cape Ann Emergency Preparedness Coalition continues to work to
prepare its communities to respond to public health threats and emergencies, which
include terrorism and outbreaks of infectious diseases as well as emergencies
caused by a force of nature. This coalition, established in 2004, is a sub-coalition
within Region 3 of the Massachusetts Department of Public Health (MDPH)
regional Public Emergency Preparedness Coalitions and meets monthly. The
coalition receives limited funding from a grant provided by the CDC and is
mandated to attain certain standards in emergency preparedness. The North Shore-
Cape Ann Emergency Preparedness Coalition has established a website with
information for the public and links to other sites that can provide valuable
information to our residents. To date, the Board of Health has provided MDPH with
24/7 contact information, submitted a Continuity of Operations Plan, participated in




                                         96
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


numerous drills, trainings and conferences, trained key personnel in NIMS
(National Incident Management System) and ICS (Incident Control System),
updated the All-Hazards Plan, and has submitted a template of our Special
Populations Plan. In 2008 the coalition began the process of a multi-year Training
and Exercise Plan. This plan will take us from learning about a specific scenario to a
full blown disaster drill incorporating all hazards plans and testing of the established
infrastructure.

The coalition is continuing the process of increasing our database of medical and
non-medical volunteers through our website and is offering training opportunities
for these volunteers. In the event of an infectious disease epidemic, pandemic, or a
natural disaster, volunteers will be greatly needed. Volunteers can register online
and/or by calling the Marblehead Board of Health. We urge residents to become
volunteers. Please log on to: http://www.nscamrc.org/ or call the BOH at 781
631-0212 to register as a volunteer and to learn more about our coalition.

MARBLEHEAD.ORG WEBSITE
CODE RED EMERGENCY NOTIFICATION SYSTEM
News and notifications concerning public health, trash and recycling are posted in
timely fashion. This useful media tool allows the posting of links to sites relating to
public health, emergency planning, solid waste and beach water quality. A
subscription service on Marblehead.org allows people to sign up for email alerts
regarding solid waste, recycling, public health emergencies, as well as other
important Town information.

In closing, the Board of Health commends its office staff and transfer station staff
for their adaptability, dedication, and devotion to their positions and to the Town.

We are continuing to work with our neighboring towns and cities with the creation
of the North Shore Shared Public Health Services Program. Our long-term goals
are to ensure that each community is successfully and consistently meeting core
mandates while striving to improve the overall health of the region through regional
approaches to service delivery and data-driven policy changes.

The Board wishes to thank other Town Departments for assistance and cooperation
in the form of manpower, equipment, and other resources. The Board also thanks
Town Planner Rebecca Cutting for her technical assistance. The Board of Health
and the Town are fortunate to have a willing and able group of volunteers who




                                          97
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


assist in all aspects of our operation. The Board of Health thanks all those
volunteers.


HEALTH OFFICE STAFF
Tracy Giarla, LPN, Public Health Nurse
Roberta Cody, Health Inspector
Andrea Flaxer, Senior Clerk

TRANSFER STATION STAFF
Michael Louizos, Leader Heavy Equipment Operator
Chris Monahan, Heavy Equipment Operator
Erik Hudak, Heavy Equipment Operator
Kay Monahan, Special Clerk
Alyson Hyte, Part-time Clerk
Karen Patch, Part-time Clerk


Respectfully Submitted,
Michelle Gottlieb, M.E.M., Chairman
Todd Belfbecker, D.M.D.
Helaine R. Hazlett, B.S.


Andrew H. Petty R.S.
Director of Public Health




                                         98
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



BUILDING COMMISSIONER & INSPECTIONAL SERVICES


The Building Department ensures public safety, health and welfare by regulating
construction through Federal, State and Local Codes and By-Laws. The Building
Department, in conjunction with the Fire Prevention Office, conducts annual
inspections of public and private schools, churches and temples, day care centers, food
service establishments, nursing homes, private clubs and places of assembly.

Building Commissioner, Robert S. Ives, Jr., retired in January. The department thanks
Mr. Ives for his many years of service to the Town and wishes him well in his
retirement. The Abbot Hall Clock Tower project was completed and the investigation
of the exterior envelope of Abbot Hall is underway. The first two dwellings of the
development, located at 151 Green Street, were permitted in October and the
department is beginning the process of inspecting all multi-family dwellings.

A total of 852 Building permits were issued in 2016. There were 9 new single family
dwellings of which 5 involved the demolition of an existing structure. Based on an
estimated cost of construction of $40,635,781 the department collected building
permit fees of $585,957. Electrical, Plumbing, and Gas permits were issued which
generated an additional $49,929.00 in inspectional fees. Fire Protection fees were
collected for building projects as required which produced an amount of $5,100. The
Department also issued 166 Roofing permits, 16 Sign permits, 27 tent permits and 2
Stove permits, which produced $6,330 in fees. Total revenue for the 2016 year was
$647,316.00.

Estimated Cost of Construction activity for the past decade in millions of dollars
 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
 $33.3 $38.1 $25.1 $46.2 $40.0 $40.4 $50.5 $33.2 $41.4 $29.8
 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
 $40.6




                                         99
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Respectfully submitted;

Richard R. Baldacci, Building Commissioner



Chris G. Butler, Local Inspector
Dan Williams, Local Inspector
Ronald J. Marks, Wire Inspector
Eric F. S. Chisholm, Assistant Wire Inspector
Brad Smith, Plumbing & Gas Inspector
Peter McCarriston, Assistant Plumbing & Gas Inspector
Greg DiGiovanni, Assistant Plumbing & Gas Inspector
Mary A. Allain, Special Clerk
Ellen Vaughn, Data Entry Clerk
Ed Medeiros, Public Buildings
Bruce Hamilton, Public Buildings




                                      100
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                      CEMETERY DEPARTMENT

The Marblehead Cemetery Department respectfully submits their Annual Report for
the Calendar year ending December 31, 2016.

The Cemetery Department is administered by a Superintendent, who has
jurisdiction over all Town Cemeteries.

The Superintendent is appointed by a three member Board of Commissioners who
are elected to three-year, staggered terms. The Commission sets policy, establishes
regulations and oversees the cemetery budget.

A set of Rules and Regulations was adopted in 1945 to protect and promote the
general welfare of the Cemetery as a whole. They are updated periodically as
needed. These rules are in place for a reason and all changes are carefully thought
through and voted on by the Cemetery Board of Commissioners.

The Cemetery Department is responsible for the complete maintenance of
Waterside Cemetery and Harbor View Cemetery. This Department downsized
from ten full time employees to the current four and eighteen seasonal employees to
only three. Maintenance staff for the Recreation and Parks Department was
increased at that time so that the upkeep of Old Burial Hill, Harris Street Cemetery,
Hooper Tomb and Green Street Cemetery could be transferred to their Department.

Cemetery Revenue for fiscal year 2016
       $ 83,777.49       charges and fees – General Fund
       $ 20,450.00       sales - Sale of Lots Fund for equipment and development
       $ 22,150.00       Perpetual Care – yearly interest from Perpetual Care
                         Fund goes into General Fund to offset Cemetery Budget
       $      40.00      Eternal Flame Fund bequests – restoration and
                         maintenance of the eternal flame and reflecting pool
       $126,417.49       total revenue

Cemetery Expenses for fiscal year 2015:
       $290,853.76        salaries and wages
       $ 21,842.57        maintenance expenses
       $312,696.33        total expenses




                                        101
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


The total number of interments for the Calendar year was 109 of which 75 were
cremations.

This Department routinely surveys other Commonwealth Communities and Private
Cemeteries as to the fees that are charged and then makes adjustments to our fees
accordingly.

The ongoing restoration of Old Burial Hill is overseen by the Old Burial Hill
Committee. The restoration is funded by grants from the MA Historic Commission
and Town funds. The Shattuck fund has been very generous. The Cemetery Board
voted to award the contract to restore the walkway leading up the hill past the newly
restored stairs to Leahey Landscaping of Lynn, MA in the amount of $13,500.50.
The Town owes its thanks to the Old Burial Hill Committee for their efforts to keep
such an historical part of Marblehead in good repair.

Existing funds in the Sale of Lots Fund is needed for equipment purchases and
building maintenance at this time. As this is our only source of funds for
development, the continuation of Locust East area development is on hold until
more funds are generated through lot sales. We have been able to finish a portion of
the area along Liberty Lane which will be ready for sale when the need arises. We
are planning to have some sort of retaining wall along that finished portion which
can be added to when the rest of the area is finished. Our thought is to have a stone
masonry wall in keeping with the aesthetic of the rest of the Cemetery and
eventually a fence on top. We are mindful of abutters and drainage issues on
Liberty Lane and will plan accordingly.

We extend our appreciation once again to the Highway Department. As always, the
sander was in Waterside during the winter months in preparation for burial services.
The Highway crew was also here in the spring helping our Department get
Waterside Cemetery ready for the Memorial Day services. We thank Director
Arthur Graves and the assistance of the Highway crew.

Thank you also to Fire Chief Jason Gilliland who unselfishly coordinates with the
Cemetery and Water Departments to fill the reflecting pool each year.

We also extend our gratitude to the Tree, Light, Recreation & Parks, and Water &
Sewer Departments for their continued assistance when needed throughout the year.

As Superintendent, I want to take this opportunity to thank the following Cemetery
employees for their continued efforts to maintain the buildings and grounds of




                                        102
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Waterside Cemetery and Harborview Cemetery which is over 40 acres. Our small
four man crew also worked tirelessly plowing the streets of our Town as well as
made sure all burial services were able to occur. Your dedication and hard work
does not go unnoticed. Thank you,
         Chris Phillips    foreman / mechanic
         Brian Ware        heavy equip. operator
         Steve Risoldi     laborer
         Mike Attridge     laborer

We are pleased to welcome our new office clerk Celia Martin. Celia’s assistance is
invaluable to this Department and we look forward to having her with us. We wish
former clerk Margo Sullivan well.

Respectfully submitted                       Cemetery Board of Commissioners:
For the Commission                           Richard F. Coletti, chairman
Catherine M. Kobialka                        William H. James, clerk
Superintendent                               Matthew J. Wolverton




                                       103
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                   CONSERVATION COMMISSION

This report is for Calendar Year 2016. The purpose of the Marblehead
Conservation Commission is to: (1) implement the safeguards specified in the state
Wetlands Protection Act, the state Stormwater Management Policy and the
Marblehead Wetlands Protection Bylaw in order to help preserve and protect the
wetlands and water resources in our Tow; (2) maintain and protect the conservation
lands held in trust for all residents of our Town. Marblehead has a high density of
population, with corresponding pressures on our open space and water resources.
The quality of life in Marblehead and its attractiveness is in part dependent on these
resources and we urge all Marblehead residents to join in our efforts to enjoy,
preserve and protect them.

The Commission holds its regular meetings on the second Thursday of each month
in the lower level conference room of the Mary Alley Building and other meetings
as needed throughout the year. We continued to assist residents in their
construction projects while guiding them in their endeavors to protect the wetland
resources potentially affected by their construction. During 2016, the Commission
received and processed the following:

Notices of Intent                   20
Certificates of Compliance          48
Requests for Determinations         17
Minor Activity Permits              55
Enforcement Orders                   1
Emergency Certificates               4

This year, the commission made several changes to its regulations to more closely
mirror the DEP rules and regulations. A public hearing was held and the new
regulations went into effect in November of 2016. The changes broaden the work
permitted under Minor Activity Permits.

The Commission continues to work on identifying and correcting encroachments on
Town owned conservation land. The Commission plans to have affected land
surveyed to assist in this effort.

In June of this year, 2016 William Lanphear, left the position of Conservation
Commission Administrator for the town. The commission wishes to thank Willy
for his many years of work with the Commission and wish him well in his future




                                         104
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


endeavors. In September the town hired Charles Quigley as the new Town
Engineer to replace Willy. The transition has gone smoothly and the Commission is
pleased to have Charlie on board. Other changes include welcoming new member
Jesse Alderman who brings additional legal expertise to the board.

Again this year, we wish to express our gratitude to the Marblehead Conservancy
for its continuing efforts to restore, improve and expand walking paths in our
conservation lands and for its ongoing program to remove invasive plant species
and improve the conservation lands within the town. They are a dedicated group of
volunteers. The Commission encourages you to explore the many walking trails in
Marblehead maintained by the Conservancy. Trail maps are available on the
Conservancy's web site.

Please visit us on the Town web site, www.marblehead.org, to find information on
our meeting schedules, help with filing permit applications and accessing the
minutes of our meetings.

Respectfully submitted,
Marblehead Conservation Commission

Brian LeClair, Chairman
Frederick Sullivan, Member
David VanHoven, Member
David Depew, Member
Barbara Collins Rosenberg, Member
Michael Smith, Member
Jesse Alderman, Member




                                      105
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                          COUNCIL ON AGING

The Council on Aging (COA) respectfully submits its annual report for the year
ending December 31, 2016.

At the 2016 Town Meeting, funding was appropriated to add a part-time Clerk
dedicated to Transportation. This new position, in conjunction with the current
part-time Clerk’s position, enables the COA to provide full time dispatch coverage
for its Transportation program.

The Marblehead Female Humane Society continues to provide funding for the
Transportation program which enables the COA to provide a second van driver five
days a week and operate a third van for special events. For example, COA
transportation services allowed Devereux House and Marblehead residents to attend
our Annual Picnic at the Gerry without having to cancel necessary medical
appointments.

The Community Center Space Study was completed, approved and construction
began in the spring of 2016 and completed in October, 2016. The Recreation &
Parks and COA offices, Conference Room and Game Room were remodeled. Air
conditioning was installed in three activity rooms and the telephone system was
upgraded. The Space Study was paid for by the Town of Marblehead. Renovation
funding was provided by the Recreation and Parks Department, the Friends of the
Marblehead COA and the Shattuck Fund.

The COA offers programs and services designed to keep elders independent, remain
healthy and stay connected with the community. Services include:
Health/Wellness Screenings and Services: 48 weekly wellness clinics by the
Marblehead Public Health Nurse and a local Visiting Nurse Association (VNA)
were provided. Four hearing screenings were also conducted.

Transportation: Transportation is provided for Marblehead residents age 60+, or
under age 60 with disability. Medical appointments are the COA’s first priority.
Rides are also provided to physical therapy appointments, the YMCA, JCC,
Marblehead Counseling Center, as well as to the Senior Center for lunch, fitness
programs, activities and/or lectures. Weekly trips to Vinnin Square, Market Basket
and Crosby’s are provided, as well as bi-monthly trips to the Danvers and Peabody
shopping malls. In 2016, 214 individuals utilized the Transportation program
consisting of two vans operating on average 21 days a month which enabled 30




                                      106
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


rides per day. Total rides for the year provided 30% to medical appointments, 39%
for nutrition, 30% recreation and 1% local errands. The COA participated in its first
MassDOT audit.

Nutrition: 17,619 meals were delivered to 119 homebound individuals and 3,287
meals were served to 246 seniors at the center. Nutritional facts for home delivered
meals are now listed on the menu. The COA delivers approximately 75 meals a
day.

Nutrition Events: Over 80 Homebound individuals enjoyed ice cream sundaes
donated and delivered by The Rotary Club of Marblehead Harbor. Over 140 senior
residents were treated to a delightful Annual Picnic lunch generously provided by
the Gerry No. 5 VFA. The Masons of the Philanthropic Lodge F. & A.M. prepared
and assisted the COA in providing two Veterans breakfasts. They also hosted and
served a free Thanksgiving feast to 125 Marblehead residents. A continued
partnership with the Marblehead Food Co-Op netted an abundance of surplus fresh
fruit and vegetables during the summer and early fall. Volunteers delivered this
produce weekly to many Marblehead seniors.

Fitness/Exercise: 1,314 seniors participated in a broad range of programs focusing
on Fitness and Exercise including: Osteo Prevention, Weight Training, Parkinson
Fitness, Strength & Stretch, Tai Chi, Yoga, Chair Yoga and Zumba. Balance
screenings through North Shore Physical Therapy were offered twice weekly during
Balance and Mobility Classes. The Fitness Center’s daily hours were extended
from 7a–1:30p. The Fitness/Exercise program expanded to include Dance for Joy,
Chair Yoga, Muscle Conditioning, Quigong, Small Group Circuit Training, Senior
Boot Camp, Beginner Tai Chi, Advanced Chair Yoga and Advanced Yoga,
resulting in greater overall class participation.

Education: 337 individuals attended several presentations including: an AARP
driving course, Registry of Deeds Homestead Act, Consumers Empowered, Inc.
SCAM prevention, Long Term Care (LTC) Insurance, Electoral College,
IPAD/IPHONE instruction, Landlord/Tenant agreements by the Attorney General’s
office, “Congress in Your Corner” with Seth Moulton, PTSD Program for Veterans
and their families, with guest speaker Lt. Donald Sullivan and Denise M. Sloan,
PhD, Associate Director, Behavioral Science Division, VA National Center for
PTSD. The COA continued proudly supporting the National Organization Red
Shirt Fridays and working with C.A.P.T.S. collecting donations of various items for
our troops. Several senior knitters created hats following a pattern designed for this
specific purpose, which were then delivered to Pease Airforce Base by two of our




                                        107
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


volunteers earmarked for those servicemen and women being deployed. One of our
regular COA attendees, Frank Kelley, USMC, created and hosts “Veterans Stories”
which is telecast via MHTV. These poignant stories are shared by our Veterans in
personal interviews with Mr. Kelley.

Recreation and Arts/Crafts Activities: 755 seniors enjoyed beginner and
advanced Bridge Instruction, pick-up Bridge, Crazy Whist, Mah Jongg, Cribbage,
Oil Painting, Golf, Bocce, Indoor Curling, Pickleball, Scrabble, Drawing, Quilting,
Crafts, Line Dance, and Tap Dance. The Seacoast Quilt Guild monthly attendance
has grown. Their projects include charity quilts, pet blankets for shelter animals,
weighted blankets for autistic children and pillow cases for the Boys and Girls Club.
Bocce participation has increased. Competitions were held throughout the summer
and fall with other local COAs including Danvers, Swampscott, and Wenham.
Indoor Curling was introduced in January, 2016. Offerings increased from two to
three days a week during the winter/spring months. Pickleball instruction classes
were added in December, resulting in increased class and game participants.

Travel Opportunities: 21 day and overnight trips comprised of Concerts, Fall
Foliage, Washington, DC, Lake Winnipesaukee, San Antonio, Texas, California,
Foxwoods and Twin Rivers were offered. 65 seniors took advantage of these
opportunities. With the availability of our new van, a new program, “TRAVELS
with TRISH” continued to grow in popularity, with visits to various destinations on
social/cultural excursions. These mystery ride trips were greeted with great
anticipation each month. 104 seniors climbed on board for this vibrant social outing.

Social Events: The Annual Picnic at the Gerry No.5 VFA included entertainment
by the Singing State Trooper. We thanked all our wonderful volunteers at our
Volunteer Appreciation Breakfast. Our bi-annual Veterans Breakfasts were offered
in May & November celebrating and thanking our Veterans. Our monthly special
luncheons included entertainment, and visits from the Traveling Chef. Once again,
Santa Claus appeared at our Holiday Open House. The Men’s Group hosted four
informative speakers. In February, Town Administrator John McGinn reported on
the State of the Town. In June, Don “Toot” Cahoon discussed coaching
philosophies and his thoughts on the N.E. College Hockey Scene. September
brought expert analysis of the Presidential Campaign by Michael Goldman and
Virginia Buckingham. Don Doliber, Town Historian, completed the year,
presenting “Murders in Marblehead.”

Safety: The COA sponsors TRIAD, an organization composed of the Essex County
Sheriff Department, the COA, the Marblehead Police Department and the District




                                        108
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Attorney’s office. TRIAD supports efforts to inform seniors about identity theft and
scams, as well as safety awareness both at home and in the community. TRIAD
sponsored an informative Breakfast. A Fire Prevention program, presented by the
Marblehead Fire Department (MFD) was aired on MHTV. Several Fire Safety
Home Audits have been conducted by the MFD and COA Outreach Coordinator as
a result of these programs.

Health Insurance Counseling: SHINE (Serving the Health Insurance Needs of
Everyone) counselors Peter Bowen, Paul Nash and Andy Stone, worked with 323
Marblehead citizens in 2016. 79% were over the age of 65. These SHINE
volunteers are trained in Medicare health insurance and prescription coverage.
They met with clients twice a week at the COA from January through October and
increased their hours to four days a week during the Medicare Open Enrollment
period.

Outreach: The Outreach Coordinator continued to expand the social service
component of the COA this year. Over 400 senior adults were introduced to COA
activities and services for the first time. Collaborative efforts with other town
departments including Police, Fire, Board of Health, Veterans Agent and Selectmen,
the Marblehead Counseling Center, and local physicians’ practices, have resulted in
an increase in client referrals. The Marblehead REACT (Regional Elder Assistance
Coordinating Team) case conference with first responders, Board of Health, medical
practice social workers and Marblehead Counseling Center is convened monthly.
Participation in the monthly local providers’ group and membership in North Shore
REACT have led to over 1,000 seniors being served. The Outreach Coordinator
and the COA Director participate in the newly formed Marblehead Opioid Task
Force confronting this national epidemic locally.

957 individuals received case management and advocacy services. At least 20 were
assisted in completing fuel assistance applications through North Shore Community
Action Programs, Inc. 1,229 seniors were served more than once during this fiscal
year. In its fourth year, the monthly Caregiver Café continued to meet, providing
support for caregivers of family and friends experiencing health challenges, and
averaging 6 participants a month. 60 Farmer’s Market Coupons from the US
Department of Agriculture were allotted to Marblehead this season and distributed
to qualified seniors. The Farm Direct Co-op generated surplus produce which was
delivered to Marblehead homebound seniors by volunteers. In partnership with
Rotary Elderact and the Marblehead Fire Department, The Outreach Coordinator
facilitated the installation of 50 lock boxes on the homes of qualified seniors
needing first responder ease of access in an emergency. The Outreach Coordinator




                                       109
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


added an RMV program along with the MBTA, facilitating 59 Reduced Fare
Charlie Card and 5 RMV applications and services. Collaborative relationships
with The Marblehead Female Humane Society and the Making Ends Meet
Foundation has resulted in 25 holiday vouchers, gifts and philanthropic grants
distributed and awarded to needy elders.

Volunteer Opportunities: The Volunteer Coordinator organized 240 volunteers
who provided more than 6,000 hours of service. Assistance was provided in a
variety of roles such as office administration, newsletter proofing, mailings, public
relations, ambassadors, class instructors, lunch servers, and Fitness Center monitors.
Other volunteers helped plant and maintain the Community Center landscaping and
the community garden along with distributing surplus produce from the Marblehead
Co-op to seniors. The snow shoveling program ran jointly with the Veterans
Middle School, assisted 18 seniors requesting support. The 2016 Tax Work-Off
Program provided 30 Marblehead seniors with the opportunity of volunteering in
Town Departments such as the Cemetery, Tax Assessor, Harbormaster,
Engineering, Historical Commission, Library, Water & Sewer and the Council on
Aging. In May, all volunteers were treated to a delicious Volunteer Appreciation
Breakfast. The COA staff thanks all of our volunteers and appreciates all the help
they provide.

The Town of Marblehead appropriated $293,904 for FY17. The COA was also
awarded a Title IIIC federal grant of $27,473 for its nutrition programs and a Title
IIIB federal grant for its Outreach program. The State Formula Grant was awarded
in the amount of $49,200. The State increased funding from $9.00 to $10.00 per
senior based on the 2010 Census for FY17.

The generosity of the Marblehead Female Humane Society, the Friends of the COA,
and the Masons continues to provide essential needs for our Town’s senior
residents. We are also grateful to those who have remembered the COA through
individual donations.




                                        110
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


The staff of the Council on Aging is to be commended for their commitment to
serving the senior residents of Marblehead:

Director:                           Lisa J. Hooper, MS
Activities Coordinator              Janice Salisbury Beal
Senior Day Center Coordinator       Jan DePaolo
Outreach Coordinator                Marla Meyer, LCSW
Volunteer Coordinator               Susan Burgess
Van Chauffeurs                      Patricia Mederios, Bob Gotschall, Bob Hinch
Sr. Clerks - Transportation         Renee Leger, Nadine Lepick
Site Manager                        Maxine Stromberg
MOW Drivers:                        Pam Campbell, Nancy Cheney, Caroline Curtis,
                                    Norma Dane, Bob DeLisle, Kathryn Larkin,
                                    Don Merrigan

Maintenance                         John Belanger, Dave Dragan


Respectfully submitted,

Ed Bell, Chairman
Rev. Clyde Elledge, Vice Chairman
Maureen Horan, Secretary
Rosaleen Doherty
Pam Foye
Thomas Gawrys
Freda McGuire
Peggy Munro
Joan Shea
Judy Jacobi, Selectmen’s Liaison




                                       111
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

The following is a report of the Department of Public Works (DPW) for the year
ended December 31, 2016.

ROADS AND SIDEWALKS:
Under the Chapter 90 Program, for which the Town of Marblehead receives 100%
reimbursement from the State Department of Transportation (DOT), the following
streets were resurfaced during the 2016 year:

Adams, Cleveland, Coolidge, Gallison, Grant, Greystone, Jackson, Madison,
Monroe, Summit, Vassar, Atlantic in part from the Swampscott Line to Gallison
and Dodge Road.

Also under the Chapter 90 Program, the installation of 12 handicap ramps along
Atlantic from the Swampscott Line to Gallison were completed with DOT funding
that was approved in 2015. We are currently working with BETA Group Inc., a
pavement management consultant, to evaluate and grade the public streets in town
in order to set up a long term paving program.

All work on streets and sidewalks in Town, including but not limited to, repairing
trenches and patching potholes, sidewalk maintenance and rebuilding, street
sweeping, storm and accident debris removal, Christmas tree removal, maintenance
and repair of town fences, street sign repair and maintenance, street lining and
roadside landscaping, are included in the regular DPW budget. The DPW also
cooperates with and assists other departments when needed and, as an example,
assists the Cemetery Department with grass cutting and other preparations for
Memorial Day. Along with the Tree Department, we also shaved tree roots and
repaired sidewalks throughout town and concentrated in school areas.

The department removed rocks and sand from the causeway several times. Fences
needed repair at Grace Oliver’s Beach, Chestnut Street at Red Steps, as well as the
railings at Alley Steps.

The winter of 2016 was much more manageable than the preceding winter when
108 inches of snow fell. We had more instances of icing conditions than snow.
Please take a look at our Snow Emergency Brochure at Marblehead.org for helpful
tips and answers to frequently asked questions regarding snow situations. Residents




                                       112
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


are reminded to please always drive with caution and mind crosswalks all year and
especially during the winter months.

There have been only a few personnel changes this past year. William Beringer and
Manuel Espinosa left for positions elsewhere and we wish them well. We
welcomed Ryan Wildman-Shaw as our newest mechanic.

I would like to thank all DPW employees for their commitment to the department
and their continued hard work. I again look forward to leading them in the effort to
give the Town of Marblehead an exemplary level of service.

Employee                                     Occupation
Arthur Graves                                Director of Public Works
Robert Titus                                 Assistant Director of Public Works
Colleen King                                 Senior Clerk
Robert Nauss III                             Mechanic Supervisor
Justin Lendall                               Mechanic
Ryan Wildman-Shaw                            Mechanic
Jose Fagundes                                Heavy Equipment Operator - Lead
Robert Mace                                  Heavy Equipment Operator - Lead
Frank Monahan                                Heavy Equipment Operator - Lead
William Dow                                  Heavy Equipment Operator
Jameson Hare                                 Heavy Equipment Operator
Michael Henry                                Heavy Equipment Operator
Reginald Kernizan                            Heavy Equipment Operator
Dana Lemieux                                 Heavy Equipment Operator


Respectfully submitted,

Arthur Graves
Director of Public Works




                                       113
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                    ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT

In 2016 the Engineering Department offered the following engineering services to
various departments and committees in town:
     x Engineering peer review,
     x Site construction inspection,
     x Engineering design for infrastructure improvement projects,
     x Field engineering/surveying services for roadway or drainage
         improvements,
     x GIS Mapping Services,
     x Information/record research.

The Engineering Department is responsible for maintaining and updating the
records and plans of town owned property and infrastructure. Walk-in service is
available for individuals seeking records pertaining to roadway layout, water, sewer,
drainage, Town owned buildings and private property lines. Surveyors, Attorneys,
Architects, Engineers and Residents are typical customer requesting this
information.

The Engineering Department staff provides all of the clerical services required by:
    x The Conservation Commission,
    x The Old and Historic District Commission,
    x The Zoning Board of Appeals.
The Engineering Department staff provides clerical assistance to:
     x The Planning Board.
Such clerical services include but are not limited to historic and field research,
public meeting preparation, advertising, permit and certificate issuance, field
investigation and response to public information requests.

Permits and Certificates issued or processed by the Engineering Department
include:
     x Conservation Commission Orders of Conditions,
     x Conservation Commission Minor Activity Permits,
     x Conservation Commission Certificates of Compliance,
     x Conservation Commission Enforcement Orders,
     x Old and Historic District Certificates of Appropriateness.




                                        114
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


In June of 2016 William Lanphear left the position of Conservation Commission
and Engineering Department Administrator.

The department thanks Willy for his 7 years of work and wishes him well in his
future endeavors. In September the Town hired Charles Quigley as the new Town
Engineer. It should be noted that Willy left both the Conservation Commission and
Engineering Department in excellent organizational condition.

Respectfully submitted,
Charles F. Quigley, P.E., Town Engineer


Engineering Department Staff:
Jennifer Titus, Senior Clerk




                                      115
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                          FINANCIAL SERVICES


The Financial Services Department is responsible for the Town’s financial
functions, including accounting, payroll, revenue collection, budgeting, capital
financing and retirement management. The Financial Services Department is
overseen by the Town's Finance Director. The Finance Director also serves as the
Town Accountant and is responsible for the management of Information
Technology for the Town. In addition, the Finance Director serves as an ex-officio
member of the Town’s Retirement Board and the Town’s Compensation
Committee.

Within Financial Services, the Accounting office is responsible for the audit and
approval of all town expenditures and preparation of various accounting and
financial reports required by the State’s Department of Revenue. The Revenue
office is responsible for the distribution of payroll and vendor checks and collection
of taxes and fees owed to the Town. Both the Treasurer and the Collector functions
are performed by this office. The Payroll office performs all payroll functions and
administers various employee fringe benefits, including health insurance, dental
insurance, flexible spending plans, 457 deferred compensation plans, and life
insurance.     The Payroll office also manages unemployment and workers'
compensation benefits.

The Financial Services Department publishes a separate Comprehensive Annual
Financial Report (CAFR) for the Town on a fiscal year basis (July 1 to June 30)
each year. A copy of the latest CAFR is available on the Town’s website or by
contacting the Finance Director’s Office.

Among the more significant accomplishments of the Financial Services department
during 2016 were:

    x    Received the Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial
         Reporting from the Government Finance Officers Association for the
         twelfth consecutive year. This award is only given to government units
         whose comprehensive annual financial reports (CAFRs) achieve the
         highest standards in government accounting and financial reporting.
         Marblehead was one of only 35 Massachusetts communities to receive this
         award.




                                        116
               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


x   Worked closely with an independent audit firm to prepare and issue the
    Town’s FY2016 CAFR.

x   Completed the annual open enrollment process in April and May for
    employee and retiree health insurance. The Town began purchasing health
    insurance plans through the State’s Group Insurance Commission (GIC) in
    July 2012.

x   Conducted an open enrollment for optional dental insurance programs for
    employees and retirees. Under this program, employees and retirees pay
    100% of the premiums for this insurance through a payroll deduction. The
    open enrollment process was conducted in May for this option.

x   Conducted an open enrollment in October for optional whole life, group
    term life, and a new critical illness insurance policy for employees.

x   Completed searches and hired individuals into two vacant positions
    (Payroll Administrative Clerk and Senior Clerk - Revenue Office) within
    the Department.

x   Managed the Town’s official website (www.marblehead.org). This work
    included managing the content of the website to ensure completeness and
    accuracy and assisting other town departments with their website content.

x   Issued a Request for Proposal (RFP) and awarded a contract to a new
    vendor for the redesign of the Town's website. The implementation of the
    new website is scheduled to be in 2017.

x   Managed the online payment option available for taxpayers to use in the
    payment of their Real Estate and Personal Property taxes, Motor Vehicle
    and Boat Excise taxes, as well as Water and Sewer bills and Park and
    Recreation registrations. Furthermore, worked with a new vendor to
    release an improved online payment option for residents to purchase dog
    licenses through the Town Clerk’s Office.

x   Completed a capital financing on behalf of the Town involving the
    issuance of both long-term bonds and short-term notes to finance various
    capital projects undertaken by the Town. In the context of this financing,
    the Town’s AAA bond rating was affirmed by the independent rating
    agency Standard & Poor’s (S&P) for the eighth straight year. Marblehead




                                  117
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


        is one of 50 Massachusetts communities to receive S&P’s highest
        municipal rating.

    x   Submitted all required Department of Revenue reports within specified
        deadlines, including the Tax Rate Recap, Schedule A, and other accounting
        forms.



Financial Services Department Staff:

Alison Nieto              Finance Director/Town Accountant
Robert Ross               Assistant Director – Accounting
Patricia Kelly Murray     Treasurer/Tax Collector
Dianne Rodgers            Payroll Administrator
Connie Ross               Assistant Revenue Officer
Jo-an Fratini             Accounting & Website Assistant
Dmitriy Vaydman           Accounting Assistant
Linda Gifford             Retirement Administrator
Nancy Connelly            Administrative Clerk – Payroll Office
Tammy Jones               Senior Clerk – Revenue Office




                                       118
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                            FIRE DEPARTMENT

To the Honorable Board of Selectman and Citizens of Marblehead, on behalf of the
men and women of the Marblehead Fire Department, it is with great pride and
privilege that I submit my 2016 Annual Report. Many of the accomplishments
highlighted in this report are the direct result of the commitment to excellence by
department members, 911 Dispatchers, and Fire Alarm personnel.

MISSION:
First and foremost, the members of the Marblehead Fire Department take pride in
the fact that our skills, training, and professionalism are serving and protecting the
Town of Marblehead. Our mission is public safety and customer service.

This community puts its trust in us as emergency first responders, and expects that
when we answer a “911” call we are prepared, professional and able to perform as a
team in order to prevent harm, preserve life, and protect property. It is a tribute to
everyone in the Department that day-in and day-out, we meet that challenge and that
we do so under conditions that can be difficult and dangerous. I commend the men
and women of the Marblehead Fire Department who remain dedicated to providing
quality and innovative fire, rescue, and emergency medical services, to our
community

FIRE RESCUE & EMS OPERATIONS:
The Marblehead Fire Department operates with forty full time personnel. The forty
firefighters are broken into four shifts of ten members, consisting of one Captain,
one Lieutenant and eight Firefighters. The four shifts are commanded by the Duty
Captain, who is responsible for the oversight of all activities on a particular shift.
Those responsibilities range from incident management to customer service with an
end result that ensures that we have the necessary resources to mitigate any situation
safely and appropriately. The fire department’s primary responsibility is responding
to emergency and non-emergent calls for assistance from the public. Services
provided include combating all types of fires, providing emergency medical care to
the sick and injured, containing and mitigating the effects of leaks and spills of
hazardous materials, rescuing those who are physically trapped in such situations as
motor vehicle accidents, industrial accidents or collapsed structures, providing ice
and water rescue, mitigating the hazards associated from downed power lines or
natural gas leaks and providing aid in situations where those in the community need
special assistance such as lock out/in situations, or animal rescues. In addition, all
of the men and women of the Marblehead Fire Department assist in providing




                                        119
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


public fire safety and emergency preparedness educational training and programs to
the general public; safety inspections, maintaining equipment, apparatus and
facilities and participate in daily fire rescue and EMS training. The fire department
operates out of two fire stations with two EMT Engine Companies and one Ladder
Company, which provides 24/7 coverage. The fire stations are located at 1 Ocean
Avenue and 1 Franklin Street. Several specialized pieces of equipment (such as the
public safety boats, DEP spill trailer and pump trailer) make up the remaining
resources at our disposal.

FIRE RESCUE & EMERGENCY MEDICAL RESPONSE:
The call volume for emergency services in 2016 decreased marginally from the
previous year. The Fire Department responded to 2,634 calls for services. This
number represents a reduction of 11 responses compared to last year’s call volume.
The majority of our emergency responses are for rescue and medical emergencies.

The Department currently has 40 EMT-Basics and 1 EMT-Paramedic. Our two
primary engines are certified as Class 5 Non Transporting Basic Life Support
Ambulances. Members maintain their skills through regularly scheduled training
conducted by the Department’s Training Officer in conjunction with Atlantic
Ambulance Company. All of our apparatus and staff vehicles are equipped with
state-of-the-art cardiac defibrillators as well.

In 2016 we responded to 1,154 calls for medical assistance. Emergency medical
service continues to be a major component of the services the Marblehead Fire
Department provides to our citizens. Our Firefighter EMT’s strive to provide the
citizens with excellent emergency medical care and customer service; this is
exemplified by the countless hours of emergency medical training that all members
participate in on a daily basis and the quality of service provided by fire department
personnel.

Our nation is in the midst of an unprecedented opioid epidemic, and Marblehead is
not immune to the opioid crisis. There has been a striking escalation of opioid use
in Marblehead over the past year, and during this period, the department has
responded to twenty-six reports of opioid related overdoses, four of which resulted
in loss of life. The opioid epidemic is still on the rise and the Department of Public
Health estimates that the opioid epidemic will not peak until 2018. The Fire
Department implemented the use of naloxone (NARCAN) in 2015, and over the
past two years Narcan has proven to be a lifesaving drug that has quickly become an
essential part of our “emergency medical arsenal."




                                        120
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


FIRE INVESTIGATION:
The Marblehead Fire Investigation Unit is made up of five dedicated and well
trained fire investigators.      (Captain McLaughlin, Lieutenant J. Thibodeau,
Firefighters Ridge, Sheehan, and Lydon). These investigators work under the
direction of Acting Captain Charles Cerrutti, who oversees fire investigations for
the department.      The unit investigates fires for the purposes of criminal
investigations, product reliability, and fire code performance. The FIU also
conducts investigations related to any explosive incidents that occur in the
community. The fire investigation unit works with both the Fire Marshal and the
Marblehead Police Department in an effort to prevent future fires and criminal acts
involving fire. The FIU was activated on five occasions over this past year to
investigate various incidents including, structure fires, vehicle fires, and boat fires.

PERSONNEL:
The following personnel changes were made in 2016. Firefighter Steven Bivens
submitted his resignation from this department effective February 13, 2016. Steve
was granted a lateral transfer to the town of Wakefield Fire Department. I would
like to thank Steve for his years of service to the department, and I wish Steve the
very best with his new endeavor.

On June 8, 2016 Liam Gilliland, Timothy Michaud, and Mark Tentindo were
appointed to the department as full time permanent firefighters. The three new
firefighters attended the ten week recruit training program at the Massachusetts
Firefighting Academy on July 18, 2016 and graduated on October 3, 2016. I would
like to wish them a long and healthy career.

It is with the deepest sorrow and regret that we note the passing of retired Captain
Norman P. Sherwood. Captain Sherwood was appointed a permanent firefighter on
February 8, 1967 and was promoted to Captain on January 19, 1977. Norm retired
from the department on June 18, 1996. Captain Sherwood passed away on January
4, 2016. We are extremely grateful for Captain Sherwood’s, 29 years of service to
the Department and the Town of Marblehead; he will be truly missed by all.

I would like to extend my most profound appreciation to my Administrative
Assistant, Mary Levine. Mary has served our department tirelessly, and makes
coming to work each day an enjoyable experience. For that, I am truly grateful.

I would also like to acknowledge the Department’s Chaplin, The Rev. Dr. Dennis
B. Calhoun who is always there to lend spiritual as well as moral support to the
Department and Community anytime of the day or night.




                                         121
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



A special thanks to the Town’s Wire/Fire Alarm Inspectors, Ron Marks and Eric
Chisholm. They do an incredible job maintaining the Town’s aging fire alarm
system. I would also like to express my appreciation to both Ron and Eric, for
taking time out of their busy daily schedules to assist the Fire Department with the
many other projects that we have done over the past year, and could not have
accomplished without them.

GRANTS:
The Marblehead Fire Department applied for 2016 Assistance to Firefighting Grants
program, in a second attempt to secure funding in order to replace our self-
contained breathing apparatus, which will meet their useful life expectancy in 2018.
Even though we score very high in the needs assessment, we were not successful in
securing the grant.

We applied for the 2016 Emergency Management Performance Grant (EMPG), and
we were successful in securing $5240.00, $2325.00 was used to purchase new
batteries for all of the department’s portable radios, and the remaining $2915.00 was
used to purchase four new multi gas meters and four personal single gas meters,
which will be used on the fire ground to help protect firefighters from exposure to
toxic environments.

The Student Awareness of Fire Safety (SAFE) grant was awarded to the
Marblehead Fire Department in the amount of $4540.00 and an additional $2796.00
was granted for the Senior SAFE program during fiscal year 2016. I would like to
thank Firefighter Brendan Sheehan, who serves as the department’s S.A.F.E.
Coordinator, and his staff for their steadfast commitment to educating the Town’s
youth and making them more aware of the potential dangers of fire.

STATIONS & FACILITIES:
In 2016, Town meeting provided funding to finish phase two of the installation of
23 new windows at Central Fire Headquarters. These new windows have made a
noticeable difference in respect to energy conservation and noise reduction from
outside traffic.

Central Headquarters and Franklin Street are older buildings which require
continuous upkeep and maintenance. The department members continue to put
forth a great effort to help to keep both stations clean and in good repair.

COMMUNITY PROJECTS & EVENTS:




                                        122
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


We continue to benefit from the Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-Off Program
sponsored by the Council on Aging. This program has proven to be extremely
beneficial to the Fire Department. Joan Smith has volunteered her services to the
Fire Department for the past thirteen years, and I would be remiss if I did not
recognize the great job she does. Joan is an incredible asset and we truly appreciate
her support and friendship.

The Fire Department continues our successful partnership with the Elder Act Club
and the Marblehead Council on Aging to promote the lockbox program. The
program was established to provide at no cost to Marblehead senior citizens and
individuals with disabilities, a secure lockbox that would be mounted next to the
main entrance of their dwelling. In the lockbox would be a key to the home that can
only be accessed by the Fire Department. There have been over eighty lockboxes
installed since the inception of the program. Access to a key in the event of a
medical emergency has saved countless minutes in providing lifesaving care to
Marblehead’s seniors and disabled. I want to recognize Richard Auffrey and Marla
Meyer for their outstanding work with the lockbox program.

I want to express my continued gratitude to the Marblehead Scouts, Troop 11 and
79 for volunteering to assist the Fire Department for the eighth straight year with the
Harbor Illumination. The Scouts do an excellent job monitoring the flares to
prevent citizens from getting too close to the open flame, as well as preventing the
possibility of grass and brush fires. I value and appreciate our partnership and look
forward to working with the Scouts on future projects.

The fire department implemented a plan, beginning in 2013 for the disconnection
and removal of antiquated fire alarm boxes posted on telephone poles and public
buildings. The old system has been in service since 1940 and has become
antiquated and somewhat unreliable due to deterioration of telegraph lines,
equipment, and increased maintenance costs. Private businesses were given until
September 30, 2016 to convert to the new radio fire alarm box system or the option
to connect to a private monitoring company. The new system involves no overhead
telegraph lines and there will be minimal maintenance costs involved with the new
system. The old system officially was abandoned in October of 2016. The old and
rarely used bird-house-like alarm boxes will begin to be systematically removed
from the streets of Marblehead over the next year, and until all remaining 80 boxes
can be removed, they will be labelled to indicate they are out of service.

For the seventh straight year, the firefighters combined their fitness training with a
charitable event. They put together a team to participate in the 11 th Annual Race Up




                                         123
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Boston Place Stair Climb Competition, to benefit the American Lung Association of
Massachusetts. The three member team climbed 41 floors in full turnout gear and
air tanks on their backs. Firefighter Lequin finished in 8th place out of 514
firefighters competing. I would like to recognize and commend these individuals
for their efforts, as well as the wives and spouses who participated in the climb.

      NAME                AGE        TIME              NAME                 TIME
 John Lequin               36          8:09     Andrea Miller                  6:47
 Josh Norman               25         12:19     Cassidy Thibodeau              7:47
 Tim Doane                 51         24:02     Joelle Lydon                   9:27
                                                Laura Rice                    10:12
                                                Jackie Hansen                 10:34

The Marblehead Firefighters 2016 Annual Toy Drive was incredibly successful, and
the number of toys collected every year, continues to exceed that of the previous
year’s totals. I want to commend all the members of Firefighters Local 2043 for
taking the initiative of organizing the annual Toy Drive. I would also like to extend
the gratitude of the department to the citizens of Marblehead, whose generous toy
donations help make the holidays a little happier for many children, who otherwise
would have gone without.

CONCLUSIONS:
As Fire Chief, I recognize that the greatest asset of this department is its’ forty full-
time and one part time employee.

I would like to thank the men and women of the Marblehead Fire Department for
their dedication, hard work and strong commitment to our community. They
continue to meet the challenges of a changing fire service with a level of
professionalism, which I think is un-matched among fire services. I would also like
to recognize the Civilian Dispatchers. They are a group of dedicated and
hardworking individuals, and are to be lauded for the great job they do each and
every day to help keep our community safe. In addition, I want thank all of
Marblehead’s citizens, officials, boards, committees, and other town departments
who have come to our assistance this past year. You may rest assure that we will
continue to provide the best in both emergency and non-emergency services in the
most efficient manner possible in the future.

Respectfully submitted,
Jason R. Gilliland
Chief of Department




                                          124
                             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Type of                Jan       Feb       Mar Apr       May Jun       Jul       Aug Sep       Oct Nov Dec        Total
Incident
Carbon Monoxide              6         5      3      4     3       3         5     1       4     4    5       6       49
Problems

Structure/                   0         2      1      0     1       0         3     0       1     2    5       2       17
Building Fires
Vehicle/ Boat Fires          1         0      1      0     0       0         0     0       0     0    0       0           2

Natural Gas Leaks            3         4      3      1     4       3         7     3       6     2    2       3       41
Response
Bomb Scare                   0         0      0      1     0       0         0     0       1     0    0       0           2
Mutual Aid                   0         0      2      0     1       2         6     1       1     0    1       3       17
Response
Electrical Problems          6         5      4      7     3     12          5     4       5     9    3       4       67

Alarm System             17        19        10   14      20       6     20       37   32       14   15      22      226
Malfunction
False Alarms             15        17        22   19       8     13      11       13   12       19   10      17      176
Lockouts/ Lock-ins           9         7      8   10       7     17      11       18       8    15   13      15      138

Outside Fires                0         0      1      1     0       1         4     4       0     0    1       0       12
Rescue/Medical           99        96        89   81      97     97 108 112            86       90   97     102     1154
Responses
Water/Ice Rescue             0         0      1      0     0       0         0     0       0     1    0       0           2

Motor Vehicle                4         6     14   13      13     10          9     7   12        8    3       5      104
Accidents
Severe Weather               0         1      0      0     0       0         1     0       2     0    0       1           5
Responses
Good Intent Call             9     11         9      5     5     12      15        8   11       19   12      19      135

Public Service Calls     11            9     12   14      15     18      14       17   20       24   20      21      195

Hazmat Response              1         0      2      0     0       0         1     0       0     0    0       2           6

Assist Police                3         4      2      1     5       0         1     1       1     5    6       7       36

Smoke Scare                  3         2      2      2     8       4         3     4       2     2    5       4       41

Other Hazardous          10        17         7   19      37     15      21       13       8    32   20      10      209
Conditions
                                                                                                                    2634
                                                                                                          TOTAL




                                                           125
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


APPARATUS
     Engine 1          2006 -- 1500 G.P.M. Pierce Pumper
     Engine 2          1998 -- 1500 G.P.M. Seagrave Pumper
     Ladder 1          2013 – 100 ft. Pierce Aerial Ladder-Quint
     Ladder 2          1997 -- 75 Ft. KME Aerial Ladder-Quint
     C1                2006 -- Ford Explorer (Chief's Vehicle)
     C2                2010-- Ford Escape (Fire Prevention)
     C3                2002 -- Ford F250 Pickup Truck
     Rescue Boat       2002 – 24 ft. Defender Boat

              FIRE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL CHANGES
                                  RETIRED
   Captain Michael A. Porter                      Daniel A. Rice
DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL
                                CHIEF
                           Jason R. Gilliland
                    FIRE PREVENTION CAPTAIN
                       Lieutenant Thomas G. Rice
                               CAPTAINS
     Prov. Charles P. Cerrutti      Gregg M. McLaughlin
     Scott R. Murray                Elizabeth A. Wilson
                             LIEUTENANTS
       Act. Lt. Arthur H. Boardway Act. Lt. Timothy J. Doane
       Adam J. Hatfield            Joseph M. Thibodeau
                            FIREFIGHTERS
       Patrick B. Attridge         Matthew W. Lunt
       A
       Mark P. Barcamonte          Gregory T. Lydon
       A
       Mark S. Borowski            Scott T. Martin
       Todd S. Burt                Robert L. McKay
       Matthew G. Christensen      Timothy P. Michaud
       Timothy D. Cronin           Joshua P. Norman
       Rick R. DiGiammarino        Matthew I. Patterson
       Liam F. Gilliland           Jacqueline S. Popeo
       Grant W. Glavin             Eric M. Ridge




                                    126
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


       Jeffrey K. Greenberg          Matthew J. Serratore
       Martin T. Hines               Brendan J. Sheehan
       James M. Horgan               Charles W. Sprague
       Douglas B. Knowles            Brent A. Tarasuik
       Karl P. Lemieux               Mark J. Tentindo
       John Lequin, Jr.              Eric Z. Thibodeau
                              Matthew J. Tina

    ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK               DEPARTMENT CHAPLAIN
       Mary E. Levine                  Reverend Dennis Calhoun

                              FIRE PREVENTION

     Most often fire is the result of unsafe practices…Practice fire safety!

The main objective of the Marblehead Fire Prevention Bureau is the protection of
life and property through the prevention, detection, and suppression of fire. This
is accomplished by the elimination of hazards, presence of smoke and carbon
dioxide detectors, and fire suppression systems. Effective code enforcement and
public education of fire and life safety principles saves lives.

The Fire Prevention Officer works in conjunction with the Building Department to
ensure that new construction and any renovations of existing structures meet the
minimum fire safety requirements. They also perform annual inspections of every
establishment that holds a license to serve alcohol, schools, nursing homes, inns,
and temporary structures.

The Fire Prevention Officer also functions as the Public Information Officer whose
duties include the dissemination of information to the media and public. He
provides information on emergency incidents, as well as providing interviews and
demonstrations on life safety issues. Weekly “run” reports are disseminated and
multiple safety interviews are organized with MHTV and other local media
throughout the year.

Company Inspections ~

The importance of the annual inspections cannot be overstated! They accomplish
several objectives; the fire crews become familiar with the building layout and they




                                       127
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


can help reduce the loss of life and property by identifying fire and life safety
violations.
            Through our continued vigilance and your help we hope
                 to make Marblehead a fire safe community!

Fire Prevention Open House ~ The Fire Department participated in the National
Fire Prevention Month by hosting our annual open house on Saturday October 22nd,
2016.

We demonstrated rescue techniques for victims of vehicle entrapment. Firefighters
used Hurst Hydraulic cutting and spreading tools (Jaws of Life) to remove the doors
and cut off the roof of a donated vehicle. Thank you to Bill’s Towing and
Firefighter Matthew Lunt for providing the Department with towing services, so
that we are able to transport donated vehicles to headquarters for training.

As usual our “Squirt House” was a huge hit with the children. They got to
experience some “hands on” firefighting with a real fire hose and the imitation
flames of our squirt house.

There was also a live demonstration of how thermal imaging cameras work to allow
firefighters to see in smoke filled environments, by converting the heat radiation of
objects and people into visible images.

We also would like to thank all of our Firefighters, Atlantic Ambulance, and the
Marblehead Police Department for providing valuable safety information to all the
families that attended the open house. Their combined contributions made for a
very successful event.

Once again we would like to thank Papa Gino’s for their continued support of our
open house. This was their 21st year of sponsoring fire departments throughout New
England with free pizza and fire safety handouts.

2016 Results by the numbers:

x   1,214 logged actions
x   16 Complaints investigated and conditions corrected
x   1 Inspection follow ups
x   5 Blasting complaint
x   79 Sets of plans reviewed
x   379 Residential sale of property inspections




                                        128
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


x   61 Miscellaneous calls made by the Fire Prevention Officer, which included
    fire drills, development of fire and life safety plans, evacuation plans, lectures
    on fire safety, inspector meetings and hands on demonstrations.

THE FOLLOWING PERMITS WERE ISSUED BY THIS BUREAU:

Fuel Permit/Flammable Storage                              02
Oil Burner                                                 31
Tank Removal                                               53
Blasting                                                   04
L. P. Gas                                                  19
Dumpster                                                 107
Sprinkler                                                  15
Welding and Cutting                                        02
Tank Truck Storage                                         06
Demo Sign Off                                              04
Smokeless Powder                                           00
Black Powder                                               02
Tar Kettle                                                 00
SMOKE DETECTORS:
Residential Sale of Property                             379
Residential Remodel                                        59
TOTAL PERMITS                                             683


The Fire Prevention Officer attends all Massachusetts Fire Prevention Association
and the Essex County Fire Chief’s Association - Fire Prevention Division meetings
to keep up to date with any new regulations or any changes to the present ones.

Respectfully submitted,
Acting Captain Thomas Rice
Fire Prevention Officer




                                         129
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                                     S.A.F.E.
The following is a report from the Marblehead Fire Department Student Awareness
Fire Education (S.A.F.E.) Program for the year 2016.
The program is made possible by a grant from the Office of Public Education. The
goal of this program is to conduct fire and life safety education programs within the
town of Marblehead using trained firefighters as educators.
For the past twenty years we have conducted a comprehensive Fire and Life Safety
Program with students in the Marblehead Public School district. The program
covers subjects such as Stop, Drop and Roll!, Home Escape Plans, Get Out and Stay
Out and much more. It has been a continued success again this year.
Our goal with this program is to continue our commitment to make the Marblehead
Fire Department more than just a town department. We want to be a partner with
our community and we believe that beginning life safety education early in a
student’s career makes our community a safer place to live. We also believe
working with the Council on Aging and our resident seniors benefits all residents.
This year we started a home safety program in cooperation with the Council on
Aging. We were invited into our senior residents’ homes to perform a “Home
Safety Check”. Residents signed up with the Council on Aging and scheduled an
appointment. The Fire Department along with a representative from the COA
checked for smoke detectors, CO detectors, blocked egress, fire extinguishers and
other home safety items. We made ourselves available in their home to ask specific
questions regarding their house. The grant gave us an opportunity to install free
smoke and CO detectors if theirs were out of date or not installed.
We continued our SAFE teaching for the Marblehead High School seniors. We
teach them the “why’ of fire service. Topics like the Cocoanut Grove fire in
Boston, Our Lady of Angles fire in Chicago, which was the last school fire death
thanks to tightened codes regarding fire drills. We are in the final stages of getting
into the High School Forensics class.
Fire Prevention Week is the second week in October and the Marblehead Fire
Department along with the SAFE Program had its annual Open House. The weather
cooperated, for the most of the day and over 200 visitors came by to meet our
firefighters. Thank you Group 4 for your support and for doing a great Jaws of Life
demonstration. It was a great opportunity to show the citizens of Marblehead our
capabilities and the amazing tools we have. I would like to thank all of the
firefighters who helped set up and man all of the demonstrations.




                                        130
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


I would like to thank the following educators who work so hard towards the
betterment of our program: Firefighter Greg Lydon, Firefighter John Lequin and to
Lieutenant Tom Rice for his continued support. A very special thanks to the entire
Marblehead Fire Department; without their support many of our programs would
not be possible.
Thank you to all of the children for being so wonderful and to the dedicated school
staff and teachers that work so closely with us and for allowing us into their
classrooms.

Respectfully Submitted,
Firefighter Brendan Sheehan
SAFE Coordinator


                               TRAINING REPORT


Members of the Marblehead Fire Department are continually training in order to
provide the best possible service to the community members, both on and off duty,
attend training throughout the year. Reinforcement of the basic techniques along
with learning new procedures to meet present day challenges are the focus of this
training. Department members and outside training agencies are utilized to provide
instruction.

All fire rescue programs personnel participate in daily drills and classroom
programs. Training topics include water and ice rescue procedures, self-contained
breathing apparatus as well as practicing procedures needed to rescue a downed
firefighter, multi-gas detectors and response to carbon monoxide emergencies,
review of emergency dispatch radio procedures, and annual training with our rescue
“Jaws of Life” hydraulic rams, and airbags. Participation in emergency medical
procedures is sponsored by Atlantic Ambulance as a part of their Emergency
Medical Technician continuing education program.

In addition, the department requires all new members to attend the Massachusetts
Recruit Training Program. This is an intensive 10 week program involving
classroom instruction; physical fitness training, firefighting skill training, and live
firefighting practices. All Firefighters graduate with NFPA certification of
Firefighter I & II. This year Firefighter/EMT’s Liam Gilliland, Timothy Michaud,
and Mark Tentindo successfully completed the Recruit training program. Firefighter
Eric Ridge continues to be an active member of the District Six Hazardous




                                         131
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Materials response team. The department prides itself in taking a proactive stance
in training when it comes to the safety of its members and citizens we serve. To all
of the members of the Marblehead Fire Department, thank you for your support,
dedication, and professionalism throughout the year.

Lt. Charles Cerrutti,
Firefighter Eric Ridge
Marblehead Fire Dept., Training Division


                        EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT


The Emergency Management Agency prepares for natural and man-made disasters.
The Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) serves as the local
branch of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). In March, 2003,
FEMA became part of the US Department of Homeland Security.

The Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) was established by
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to coordinate emergency services with various
state, local, and federal agencies. During a state emergency, MEMA operates from
their headquarters in Framingham, MA.

Marblehead Emergency Management attended state MEMA meetings and many
training programs throughout the year. This past year, Marblehead Emergency
Management continued to update the town’s “Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan.” The four phases of the plan are: mitigation, preparedness,
response, and recovery. Marblehead continues to subscribe to Code Red Networks;
an emergency notification telephone system that allows town officials to
immediately notify residents and businesses via telephone of emergency situations
and important community information. To register and receive notifications, please
visit the town’s website: www.marblehead.org. Click on the “CodeRed” logo to
register. During 2016 no local emergencies shelters were activated.

Emergency preparedness is the first crucial step in facing an unexpected crisis.
Marblehead residents are encouraged to develop a home/family preparedness plan.

To learn more about planning, please visit the Federal Emergency website:
http//www.fema.govareyouready.




                                       132
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


In closing, Marblehead Emergency Management would like to thank all department
heads, town employees, and residents who have provided service and support.

Respectfully,

Charles Cerrutti
Emergency Management Director




                                    133
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



            FORT SEWALL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE

The Fort Sewall Oversight Committee is a group appointed by the Board of
Selectmen and comprised of the following: Larry Sands – Glover’s Marblehead
Regiment, Chairman; Joyce Booth – Marblehead Historical Commission; Brenda
Arnold – Old Marblehead Improvement Association; OPEN – Recreation and Park
Department; TBD – Marblehead Disabilities Commission; TBD – Old and Historic
Districts Commission; TBD - Marblehead Museum and Historical Society; Ed Lang
– At large member; and Judy Anderson – At Large Member. Rebecca Cutting,
Town Planner and Tim Short, Recreation and Park Department are both ex-officio
members. The Board meets monthly on the third Friday of each month in the
Selectmen’s Room at Abbot Hall at 9:30 am.

This year the first phase of a restoration project was completed. The project
addressed priority treatment recommendations from a conditions assessment and
treatment plan developed by McGinley Kalsow & Associates Inc. and Structures
North for Fort Sewall through a previous grant from the Massachusetts Historical
Commission. This project, known as Phase One, involved masonry work on the
exterior of the redoubt and wing wall and the replacement of wooden doors, metal
door grates and metal window grates and concrete and railing work and the eastern
tip of the fort to address a safety problem. Additionally a new binocular was
generously donated by Felix & Ruth Twaalfhoven & Family and dedicated to their
parents. The binocular was installed as part of the project at the eastern tip of the
grounds.

The project was funded through two grants from Massachusetts Historical
Commission Massachusetts Priority Preservation Fund which was combined with a
generous donation by the Curtis Coffin Fund.

The Committee hopes to raise the funds for Phase 2 of the project, which includes
installing an accessible walk to the redoubt and to both upper and lower walks,
raising the stone dust floor in redoubt, replacing all the stair railings, installing a low
barrier between walks and steep bank, stabilizing the slope above redoubt,
conducting ground penetrating radar to determine original gun positions and
installing a replica cannon and associated earthworks with gun and carriage and the
replicate the outline of other gun positions.

The objectives of the restoration project are to increase visitor awareness of the
Fort’s presence on the site, generate deeper appreciation for its historic significance




                                           134
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


and preserve the historic integrity of the Fort for the long-term and enrich the visitor
experience.

The Committee will be exploring additional grant opportunities and begin the
“Support the Fort” fundraiser in the coming months and welcome donations of any
size to the project. For more information about the project, or to make a tax
deductible donation please contact rebeccac@marblehead.org, 781 631-0000, or
mail check payable to the Town of Marblehead with a notation Fort Sewall
Donation. We are confident that these improvements will continue to preserve and
enhance the experience of all that visit this historic treasure. We encourage all
Marblehead residents and visitors to take a walk around historic Fort Sewall!

Respectfully submitted,

Larry Sands, Chairman




                                         135
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                       HARBORS AND WATERS

The Harbors and Waters Board is pleased to submit its annual report for the period
ending December 31, 2016.

The Stramski pier project was completed for use on July 1 st with more
improvements to come. On June 8th the Harbors and Waters Board respectfully ask
the Selectman permission to name the new Stramski Pier, when completed, in honor
of William Pattison, long time member of the Harbors & Waters Board who was
passionate in the endeavor of this long project. Unfortunately Bill passed away in
2010 and did not get to see the project completed. The following excerpt is from
the October 14, 2010 meeting of the Harbors & Waters Board:

      “The Board recognized the many contributions of Bill Pattison over the
      past 23 years with a moment of silence. Voted that the Harbors &
      Waters Board ask the Board of Selectman to name the Stramski Landing
      the William Pattison Landing”.

Our second season with the donated 25’ Coast Guard Defender, now known as
Marblehead Boat One, has proven to be a great asset for the town. Both the Fire
Department and Harbormaster Department will continue to train and operate on this
vessel to improve public safety on the water year round.

The visiting yacht facility located at The Harbormasters Quarters at Tuckers Wharf
and the town’s transient moorings continues to be very active throughout the
boating season.

Main Harbor 2015
New permanent assignments                                                41
Temporary assignments                                                    47
Approximate number of people on the waiting list for the main harbor 1,720
Waiting time                                                   18 – 21 years
West Shore 2015
Marblehead West Shore new permanent assignments                          76
Temporary assignments                                                    41
Approximate number of people on the waiting list for the West Shore     178
Waiting time                                                         2 years




                                      136
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Under the Clean Vessel Act, the Marine Sanitation Pump out Boat operated
between Memorial Day and Halloween primarily on Tuesdays and Fridays. The
self-serve dock based pump out facility continues to grow in popularity with its 24/7
access weather permitting, until the first week of November.

The Harbormaster’s Patrol staff responded to various calls and rendered such aid as,
towing disabled vessels, dewatering vessels, providing medical assistance,
conducting search and rescue operations, investigating fuel and oil spills and
removing hazards to navigation.

The Harbormaster and the Harbors and Waters Board extend its gratitude to The
Board of Selectmen, as well as all town departments and their employees that
provide service and support to the Harbormasters operations.

Respectfully submitted
F. Webb Russell III Harbormaster Town of Marblehead

Harbors and Waters Board Members
Gary Gregory- Chairman
John Doub               Jay Michaud
Kenneth Breen           Doug O’Leary

Alternate Members
Rick Williams              T. Clark Smith
Rick Cuzner

Harbormaster Personnel
F. Webb Russell III        Harbormaster
Craig Smith                First Assistant Harbormaster
Daniel Roads               Assistant Harbormaster
Theresa Colbert Tauro      Office Manager

Seasonal Assistants
John Paine                 Ryan Hoey
Charles Culliane           Jack Loveday
Dan Cahoon

Alternate Assistants
Allen Dennis               John Vigneron
Jeff Fynn                  Felix Amsler




                                        137
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



               MARBLEHEAD CULTURAL COUNCIL

FY2016 began with $3,351.71 remaining in our account for past year
encumbrances. $4,600.00 was awarded to the Marblehead Cultural Council by the
state Cultural Council for FY 2016. The MCC awarded a portion of $4,770.00 to
each of 10 grant applications as described below.

1. The Marblehead Senior Center hosted ‘Truly Eleanor’ presented by the Delvena
Theater, a live three-person show that takes a candid look at our First Lady’s
support of her husband, Franklin D. Roosevelt, during his illness and run for
president. The performance also highlights her courage, and her great contribution
to establish human rights and liberty for all.
2. Mass Audubon’s Ipswich River Wildlife Sanctuary naturalist provides
Marblehead residents with a 2-hour nature walk at Marblehead Neck Bird Sanctuary
to highlight birds. Bird watching has become a very popular activity for adults to
exercise both their bodies and minds through bird identification. This fun, engaging
program offered participants ecological insight to the importance of habitat and the
birds that use them.
3. Old North Festival Chorus is a non-profit choir made up of more than 100
enthusiastic singers-amateurs to professional- from Marblehead and surrounding
communities. They rehearse from September through the time of two concerts
presented 2 evenings during the Christmas Walk. Festival Chorus is supported by
an additional 50 or so professional and semiprofessional musicians and soloists.
The Festival chorus is organized by a small group of volunteers and is entirely self-
funded. This year they used funds to expand promotion adding website and social
media.
4. To Write A Life: Seniors Memoir Project presented by Julianna Thibodeaux at
the JCC. Participants were guided through the process of writing a short (2-3 page)
memoir during a three-week period.
5. Me & Thee Coffeehouse proudly presented Debra Cowan, a traditional ballad
singer who presents music with a twist, encouraging audience members to sing
along like an old-fashioned pub sing. It was a fun evening for all who attended. Me
& Thee is one of the oldest coffee houses operating since 1970. Funding allowed
Me & Thee to offer free admission to this concert to Marblehead residents.
6. The Poetry Salon presented by award winning Poet, Claire Keyes at Abbot Public
Library each month, focused on selected African American poets of the 20 and 21 st
centuries. Beginning with Gwendolyn Brooks, the first black author to win the
Pulitzer Prize, considering the poetry of Robert Hayden, Rita Dove- former Poet
Laureate of the United States, Yusef Komunyakaa, Natasha Tretheway, another




                                        138
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Poet Laureate, Terrance Hayes, Claudia Rankin along with the Common Threads
project of the Mass Poetry Festival and ending with local poet, January O’Neil.
This is free to all and is a very popular event.
7. Marblehead Arts Association Education and Program series related to the arts
used the MCC funding for a participatory music program for young children; an art
and social history presentation with visuals relating to the 18 th c. women of the King
Hooper Mansion to celebrate the Marblehead Female Humane Society’s 200 th
anniversary in 2016.
8. A Summer Dance- North Shore Civic Ballet outdoor dance presentation was
scheduled to be performed during the Arts Festival in the parking lot of the National
Grand Bank. Unfortunately, this program was cancelled due to performer’s
conflicts, but we hope the North Shore Civic Ballet will reconsider the request in
the future.
9. Poly Clay Jewels and Beading Essentials – Sandra Golbert provided training for
parents and children in making jewelry, earrings, pendants and necklaces at the
Abbott Public Library. This is a well-attended program that encourages fun for
parents and children as they learn the art of creating jewels and sculpture.
10. Marblehead Housing Authority Music Program. Four musical programs are
presented throughout the year for Marblehead elderly and disabled residents.
Events held at Farrell Court Community Room include a diverse program of music
and live performance from Acoustic to swing and holiday tunes. Debra Larkin
successfully recruited professional musicians to perform.

Marblehead Council members FY 2016 include; Jonathan Green, Joyce Mayer
Clark, Howie Rosenkrantz, Ginny von Rueden and Louise Weber.

Respectfully submitted,
Hazel Grenham, Chair
Marblehead Cultural Council




                                         139
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



         MARBLEHEAD FAIR HOUSING COMMITTEE

This committee was created in 1983 by the Board of Selectmen in response to the
need for affordable housing in Marblehead and, indeed, statewide. Our mandate is
to seek out, develop, encourage, educate about and make available housing that
meets Federal and/or State standards as “affordable.” Our recent emphasis has been
on affordable housing for veterans and town employees, but the Committee also
addresses affordable housing for the community at large. The Committee also
values diversity among residents of housing in town.

“Affordable” in this case is different from the subsidized housing that is under the
purview of the Housing Authority. Eligibility is set in standards published by
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and updated annually. The standard is
generally 80% of median income determined for each town, which varies with the
size of the family in question.

When Marblehead Highlands was developed, we had our biggest addition to the
supply – 22 condos in the affordable category. The Committee had involvement
with the 5 affordable units at The Reserve at Oliver’s Pond as well. Over the years,
the town has received HOME Consortium Federal Funding allocations that have
enabled the purchase of several town homes that were rehabilitated and sold at an
affordable rate. In recent years, these funds have been used to assist qualified first
time home buyers with their down payment. In addition, the Sewall Building
provides four affordable rental units, now with management services provided by a
respected North Shore housing organization, Harborlight Community Partners.

In 2016, we have updated the Fair Housing part of the town website, including a
primer to take one through the process of qualifying for affordable housing when it
becomes available.

We have also created a Survey that was sent particularly to teachers in town to
determine how many might want to live here but can’t afford it. About half of those
who responded fell in that category.

We also began the process of possibly getting an intern from Salem State to help the
committee do a town study of all properties. That is yet to be fully developed. The
property at Vinnin Square has been rezoned in Swampscott to match the town of
Marblehead’s overlay zoning and is now eligible for a 40R Zoned development, but
needs an interested developer.




                                        140
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



We assisted in the re-sale of several units at Marblehead Highlands, thus retaining
those in the affordable housing inventory.


Respectfully submitted,

Mimi Hollister Gardner, Scribe


Committee Members
Ann Cohen
Ben Day
Alex Finigan
Andrew Hare
Virginia Healy-Kenney
Mimi Hollister Gardner, Interim Chair
Kurt James
Janet Robinson
Jim Vipperman
Mark Podgur




                                        141
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



           MARBLEHEAD HISTORICAL COMMISSION

We live in a unique and historic town – its places, structures, people and stories tell
the history of New England in a microcosm. Our mission is to identify, preserve
and protect Marblehead’s historical assets – its places, artifacts and stories, while
making these accessible to all. We want to educate the public about and publicize
Marblehead’s proud history. We also want to work with other organizations to help
achieve our mission. Finally, we fulfill our legally required obligations per Mass.
General Laws Chapter 40, Section 8d by working with the state Historical
Commission and State Archeologist.

The Commission has spaces in Abbot Hall to display and store historic artifacts,
maintain a Maritime Museum, a Sign Museum, a gift shop and office space for
research and cataloging items in the collection. The office, on the second floor of
Abbot Hall, is generally open from 9:00 – 12:00 am, although it is suggested to call
ahead.

The gift shop is managed by Gail Gray and is staffed by volunteers. The Maritime
Museum is also staffed by volunteer docents during the season. The Gift Shop is
open as volunteers are available during the tourist season from late May through
late December. The Maritime Museum is open year round when Abbot Hall is open
and staffed by volunteer docents as available during the season.

In 2016 we accomplished the following:

1. The Commission appointed three Associate Members: Pat Franklin, Gail Gray
and Eleanor Rhoades to one year terms. Bill Conly and Doug O’Leary were both
reappointed by the Selectmen to three year terms as Commissioners.
2. The Commission was awarded a FY 2016 Survey and Planning matching grant
by the Massachusetts Historical Commission for a Grant to conduct the second
highest priority historical resource inventory outlined in the recently completed
Town of Marblehead Historic Preservation Survey Master Plan – Marblehead
Historic Properties Inventory – Shipyard District, Part 1. The Commission has hired
a consultant to conduct this project, with completion expected in June, 2017.
3. The Commission’s pre-application for a Marblehead Historic Properties
Inventory – Shipyard District, Part 2, a continuation of the second priority of our
Marblehead Historic Preservation Survey Master Plan, was approved by the
Massachusetts Historical Commission. A full grant application will be submitted in
February, 2017.




                                         142
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


4. The Town received a gift of a print of Tucker’s Wharf from the Corinthian Yacht
Club. The print has been hung in the Abbot Hall auditorium and appropriate lighting
procured and installed by the Commission.
5. Cataloging work continued on newly received gifts and assisting the Town Clerk
by the cataloging of historic Town documents in the Clerk’s possession. Volunteers
responded to many research requests throughout the year.
6. The Commission provided positions for nine Senior Tax Work-off program
participants in the Gift Shop, Maritime Museum and office.
7. The Commission received a Shattuck Fund grant in support of the Old Burial Hill
Committee to restore the brick walkway at Old Burial Hill. Work on this project
was completed in late 2016. The Commission also received a Shattuck Fund grant
for matching funds to match a state Historical Commission grant received by the
Town to assess the restoration needs of Abbot Hall and its grounds.
8. The Commission had lighting and a plaque installed for the Town Deed copy
hung in Abbot Public Library.
9. The Commission had Abbot Hall’s south doors refinished.
10. The Commission initiated procurement of a professional consultant to assist in
defining requirements, location and Master Plan for a Town-wide Archival Facility.
11. The Commission initiated work to create an improved and updated web site with
better archive search methods and more Town and Commission information.
12. First floor Abbot Hall display cases update was initiaated.
13. The commission’s Gift Shop, under the able leadership of Gail Gray, had a very
good sales year and added several popular new items.
14. Wayne Butler, the Commission’s Collection Manager, has retired after many
years of service to the Town and Historical Commission.

Our organization is composed entirely of volunteers: Eleanor Rhoades, Peter
Stacey, Pat Franklin, David Krathwohl, Dotty Giles, Chris Johnston, Gail Gray and
the Gift Shop volunteers and Maritime Museum docents.

Respectfully submitted,

Commissioners                                       Associate Commissioners
Joyce Booth                                                 Gail Gray
Harry Christensen                                           Eleanor Rhoades
William E. Conly, Vice Chairman                             Pat Franklin
Donald Gardner
Douglas O’Leary
Peter Stacey
Chris Johnston, Chairman




                                       143
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



              MARBLEHEAD HOUSING AUTHORITY

The Marblehead Housing Authority is pleased to submit our annual report for the
year ending December 31, 2016.

The Marblehead Housing Authority was established in 1948 to provide decent, safe,
and affordable housing opportunities in the town for those of low income, including
the elderly, families and those with disabilities.

In 2016, the MHA assisted 476 people living in our developments, managed 3
housing programs and maintained 307 units of housing located at eight locations
throughout town.

The developments are of various ages, sizes, and configurations, and are as follows:

                         1 bedroom      2 bedroom        3 bedroom          Total
Family Housing:
Barnard Hawkes Ct            N/A              12               10             22
Broughton Road               N/A              33               21             54
New Broughton Road           N/A               4                4              8
Elderly Housing
Powder House Court            38              N/A             N/A             38
Green Street Court            32              N/A             N/A             32
Farrell Court                 64              N/A             N/A             64
New Farrell Court             48              N/A             N/A             48
Roads School                  41              N/A             N/A             41
TOTAL                        223              49              35             307


The Marblehead Housing Authority is “a public body politic and corporate”
authorized by State Law and regulated by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
Department of Housing and Community Development (DHCD).

The Board of Commissioners consists of four members elected by the Town, and
one member appointed by the Governor. All members of the Board serve a 5 year
term.




                                        144
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


The Board meets regularly on the third Tuesday of each month at the community
room at the Roads School, 26 Rowland Street, and conducts its Annual Meeting and
election of officers every June.

In May, Patricia Roberts was re-elected and has been a member since September,
2015 and Jean Eldridge was re-elected to her fifth term on the Board.

At the Annual Meeting held in June, Kurt James was re-elected Chairman, Pamela
Foye was re-elected Vice Chair, Jean Eldridge was elected Treasurer; and Patricia
Roberts was elected Assistant Treasurer.

In October, 2016, Mr. James stepped down as Chair, and the Board elected Pamela
Foye as Chair and Joan Cutler as Vice Chair.

The Board of Commissioners is responsible for establishing policy and approving
and monitoring the MHA’s annual budget. The MHA Board has established
policies and procedures in accordance with the regulations under which the
Authority operates, and monitors the operations of the Authority on a regular basis.

Initiatives fostered by the Commissioners:

2016 was a year of transition at the MHA. The Board of Commissioners formed a
Search Committee and conducted a lengthy search to hire a new Executive Director,
following the retirement of Nancy M. Marcoux, who served in this position for 20
years.

Following a lengthy process, in April, the Board voted unanimously to hire then
current Assistant Executive Director, and Interim Executive Director, Debra A.
Larkin, as the new Executive Director. Ms. Larkin began her tenure on March 30,
2016.

Board members participated in “Board Commissioner Regional Training”
(Northeast Region) on September 30, 2016

At the request of the Director, the Board voted to increase the hours of the part-time
Resident Service Coordinator in 2017, to better serve its senior residents.




                                        145
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Administration:

The Board contracts with an Executive Director who is responsible for the day to
day management and operations of the agency and its personnel.

The Executive Director filled several key administrative positions in 2016,
including that of Assistant Executive Director and Housing Manager.

Although the MHA is eligible for subsidy under its contributions contract with
DHCD, at the present time the overall income from rent is in excess of the
allowable expense level, therefore the Authority does not receive a subsidy.

The Marblehead Housing Authority receives no funding from the Town of
Marblehead.

Summary of Accomplishments:

Throughout the year, the MHA completed construction projects that totaled
approximately $200,000.00.

A Wireless Fire Alarm Master Box Upgrade took place at all 667, Senior Housing
locations. All fire alarms at these locations are now wireless; and continue to be
direct to the Marblehead Police and Fire Departments.

A major Structural Footings Replacement project was completed at New Farrell
Court. The steel columns beneath the complex were found to be under water
causing them to corrode. For several units, sump pumps have been installed and
during this project five additional sump pumps were also installed in five of six
buildings. Three columns were replaced entirely. Structural engineers were
required and the project was inspected and is now complete.

The design phase for a Kitchen Upgrade at two, 3 bedroom vacant units on
Broughton Road was completed in 2016. This project, estimated to cost $90,000,
will include new cabinets, countertops and flooring. In addition, electrical,
plumbing and laundry facilities will be upgraded. Finally, the front entry concrete
stoop at one unit will be replaced. Construction will take place during the early part
of 2017.

Plans are underway to upgrade the elevator at the Roads School building, and the
Design Phase began at the end of 2016. Construction for this project will take




                                        146
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


several months, and the Authority began the process of putting together a
Contingency Plan including possible relocation for the seniors residing in this
building.

Several smaller projects took place this year, including bathroom tile and shower
valve replacements, roof and gutter repairs, flooring and cabinet replacement.
Foundation waterproofing took place at Green Street Court. Rear Stair repairs at
two Broughton Road units took place as did the replacement of several Hot Water
Heaters at various locations. Fence repairs were made at Barnard Hawkes Court.
Also, at Barnard Hawkes Court, many screen repairs were made throughout the
entire complex after annual inspections. At Broughton Road, landscaping and
bush/shrub trimming took place. Appliances were replaced, as needed, at all
complexes.

Many of these capital improvement projects were funded through the State
Department of Housing & Community Development’s Formula Funding Program,
in conjunction with the MHA’s Capital Improvement Plan, a long-term
comprehensive capital planning system designed to address our most pressing
capital needs.

Other smaller projects were funded through the Authority’s Operating Budget
and/or operating Reserve.

All of these projects required the dedicated effort of both the management and
maintenance staff, in addition to the support of our Board of Commissioners.

In 2016, the Authority completed 100% annual unit inspections.

The Authority achieved 98% rent collection.

                      PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
Eligibility

In order to determine eligibility for public housing, anyone wishing to apply for
housing must submit an application and supporting documentation. The MHA
conducts a review of income and assets to determine preliminary eligibility.

The Net Income Limits for determining eligibility for state-aided housing, effective
August, 2016, are as follows:




                                        147
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                 No. in Household:                Net Income Limit:
                     1 person                          $51,150
                     2 people                          $58,450
                     3 people                          $65,750
                     4 people                          $73,050
                     5 people                          $78,900
                     6 people                          $84,750
                     7 people                          $90,600
                     8 people                          $96,450


These income limits reflect an increase of approximately 7% over the last income
limits issued in 8/14.

Local preference is given to eligible applicants who live or work in the town of
Marblehead.

Veteran’s Preference is given for family housing and to elderly applicants.

Applications / Occupancy Statistics

All eligible applicants are screened to determine whether or not they are qualified
for public housing. This includes a criminal record check, landlord history, and
credit report.

In our elderly housing program, there were 286 applicants on the waiting list for
elderly housing as of 12/31/16. This represents a 20% increase over last year. Of
those applicants, 137 are under the age of 60, and disabled.

In accordance with State guidelines, 13.5% of the units must be occupied by
disabled residents under the age of 60.

There are 240 people living in elderly housing, including 172 women and 68 men.

The average age of a resident in our elderly housing program is 73 years.

There are 16 residents over the age of 90, including 4 residents age 95 or older. Our
oldest resident is 104 years old.

The average length of tenancy in our elderly housing program is 8 years.




                                        148
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



There were 19 vacancies in elderly housing in 2016.

In September of this year, the Authority opened the 2 bedroom family housing
waiting list for a 30 day period. As of year-end, there were 166 families on the
waiting list.

There are 236 people living in the family housing developments, including 107
children under the age of 18 years.

There are 67 female head of household, and 15 male head of household in family
housing, and 9 two-parent households.

The average length of tenancy in our family housing program is 7 years.

The longest length of tenancy is 30 years.

As of year-end, there were 32% minority households living in family housing.

During 2016, there were 8 vacancies in our family housing program.

Rent

Rent for public housing residents is based on household income.

Residents of elderly housing pay 30% of their adjusted gross income for rent, which
includes all utilities: heat, hot water, electricity and gas. Residents of elderly
housing
use on-site laundry facilities at each complex. All residents have 24-hour on-call
maintenance. The average rent paid this year by an elderly resident was $413.00.
The lowest rent paid by a senior was $5.00 and the highest rent paid was $1595.00.

Family residents pay 27% of their adjusted income toward rent, and pay for their
own utilities. Family residents are also given an annual heat allowance of $500.00
(two bedroom unit) or $600.00 (three bedroom unit). Family housing residents also
have 24-hour on-call maintenance. The average rent paid by a family this year was
$491.00. The lowest rent paid by a family was $16.00 and the highest rent paid was
$2047.00.




                                        149
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Maintenance

The Maintenance Department is responsible for the upkeep of all properties,
including work orders, vacancy preparation, grounds work, snow removal, system
inspections, custodial work and record-keeping. In 2016, the maintenance staff
completed 1284 work orders, including resident requests, emergency work,
inspection findings and site work.

The Department also performed the work necessary in 27 vacant units (19 elderly,
and 8 family units).

The MHA goals of efficiency and cost-effectiveness are achieved through a
comprehensive inspection process, which includes all MHA properties, dwelling
units, grounds and building exteriors and all major systems.

There were 399 unit inspections completed this year. These included an annual
inspection of every apartment, move-in inspections, move-out inspections, interim
inspections, and new resident follow-up inspections

Regular inspections of the property grounds and building exteriors are done to
maintain the curb appeal of the property, and to immediately address any safety
concerns.

Staff Development / Employee Training

In 2016, staff attended local and state meetings and conferences sponsored by the
Department of Housing and Community Development, Massachusetts NAHRO,
North Shore Housing Executive Director’s Association, Massachusetts Association
of Housing Authority Maintenance Supervisors and participated in trainings and
workshops in the areas of capital planning. Some of the many educational subjects
included information and training presented by the Office of the Inspector General,
Sex Offender Registry Board, Legal Presentation for Directors regarding Open
Meeting Law, DHCD State Pet Policy/Service and Assistance Animals, DHCD
Facilities Maintenance/Work Order procedures, etc.

Services to Residents

The Quarterly Music Program continued in 2016, and offered residents an
opportunity to hear professional musicians perform. Under a grant from the
Marblehead Cultural Council, a local agency, funded through the Massachusetts




                                       150
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Cultural Council, a State agency, the Music Committee, under the leadership of
Executive Director Debra A. Larkin, arranged for several musical performances.

Resident Service Coordination: This program links residents to the community
resources that will enable them to live independently for as long as possible. The
program develops a sense of community by encouraging interaction among
residents; addresses tenancy related problems through the provision of services; and
identifies residents that may need assistance through interviews, phone calls, at the
annual unit inspection and the annual rent recertification meeting.

This year, 51 referrals for services were made, the majority of which came from the
MHA, Marblehead Council on Aging and North Shore Elder Services.

The Resident Service Coordinator referred MHA residents for services to the
following agencies/organizations: North Shore Elder Services (homemaking & case
management services, information & referral, respite and the Options program), the
Marblehead COA (outreach social work, transportation, social activities, and
welcome packets), SNAP (Food Stamps), Food Pantry and free holiday meals,
North Shore Physician’s Group social work and high-risk case management
programs, Lifeline, MBTA’s The Ride, Massachusetts Department of Revenue,
Massachusetts Commission for the Blind, dental schools, tax assistance programs,
pharmaceutical patient assistance programs, Safe-link telephone, SHINE (health
insurance counseling), Social Security, North Shore Center for Hoarding and
Clutter, and local philanthropic organizations for financial assistance. Additionally
several individuals were referred to local banks, local opticians and cable television
vendors, and to their family members for assistance.

In addition, MHA staff made 11 referrals for family housing residents for financial
assistance, mediation services, mental health services and parenting issues, and
legal assistance.

The Annual Cookout took place in September. The Cookout is a recurring event
with a different theme every year that encourages seniors to dress up and play
games based on the theme of the year, while enjoying traditional cookout fare
prepared      and served by the staff. Local businesses generously donated
refreshments.

Residents enjoyed the Annual Holiday Party held in December, with live music,
caroling, and a visit from Santa. Once again, local businesses generously donated
gift certificates for the raffle, always a highlight of this event.




                                        151
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



Each month, the Authority distributes a monthly newsletter to all three hundred
and seven (307) households to provide news and information on policies, programs
and activities.

                      COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES
In 2016, we continued to establish and maintain partnerships with many local
agencies and community organizations to strengthen and expand resident safety,
wellness programs and elderly support services.

The Authority held the 19th Annual Safety Program for residents of elderly
housing. This program is a collaboration between the Authority and the Marblehead
Police and Fire Departments, designed to help seniors live safely at home for as
long as possible. This program brings vital information on fire prevention, fall
prevention, and personal safety to the MHA residents.

The Marblehead Providers Group, consisting of representatives from local
service agencies and community organizations that provide services to seniors,
continued to meet each month to share information on programs and services,
collaborate, and outreach.

The Authority sponsored monthly health clinics conducted by the
Marblehead/Swampscott VNA at all of our community rooms, affording residents
an opportunity to have their blood pressure checked on a regular basis, discuss
medical conditions and have questions answered.

The Executive Director participates on the TRIAD Council, a partnership between
the Essex County Sheriff’s Department, the District Attorney’s Office, the
Marblehead Police Department and the Marblehead Council on Aging.

The Executive Director is a member of the North Shore Executive Director’s
Association (NSHEDA). This group serves 65 housing authorities north of Boston,
and sponsors monthly speakers and programs.

The Housing Authority wishes to thank our staff: Assistant Director, Julie
Martineau, Housing Manager, Elizabeth Forte, Administrative Assistant, Christine
Levoshko, Clerk Receptionist, Dawn Lauria, Resident Service Coordinator, Teri
McDonough, Maintenance Supervisor and Plumber, Phil Raithel, and Maintenance




                                      152
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Department staff members Stephen Abramo, Shane Libby, Bryan Emerson and Cyle
Murray, for their dedication and hard work during the past year.

The Housing Authority also wishes to express its sincere appreciation for the
outstanding cooperation of the town departments and the citizens of Marblehead,
who supported and assisted the Authority in our efforts to provide affordable
housing for the residents of Marblehead.

Respectfully submitted,
Debra A. Larkin, Executive Director


Board of Commissioners:
Pamela Foye, Chair
Joan Cutler, Vice Chair
Jean R. Eldridge, Treasurer
Patricia Roberts, Asst. Treasurer
Kurt James, State Appointee




                                      153
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


             METROPOLITAN AREA PLANNING COUNCIL
                NORTH SHORE TASK FORCE (NSTF)


Beverly, Danvers, Essex, Hamilton, Gloucester, Ipswich, Manchester by the Sea,
Marblehead, Middleton, Nahant, Peabody, Rockport, Salem, Swampscott, Topsfield
and Wenham

During 2016, the North Shore Task Force took part in a variety of activities,
including:

    x   Reviewing and offering input into a variety of regional transportation
        programs, including the Transportation Improvement Program, the Unified
        Planning and Work Program and the Regional Transportation Plan, as well
        as opportunities to participate in Transportation Demand Management and
        Suburban Mobility programs.
    x   Participating in the NSTF Climate Resiliency Workshop using NOAA’s
        Coastal Flood Exposure Mapper, a tool for thinking about resiliency in
        coastal communities and working with Massachusetts Coastal Zone
        Management and Salem Sound Coastwatch staff on how to apply for and
        create a successful coastal resiliency program.
    x   Working with Smart Growth staff from the Massachusetts Department of
        Housing and Community Development to learn about affordable housing
        and school funding assistance programs offered under the MGL 40 R and
        40 S programs.
    x   Collaborating with the Great Marsh Coalition to produce the Coalition’s
        fifth annual Climate Adaptation and Mitigation Conference, focusing on
        the results of North Shore coastal communities coastal resiliency
        assessments and action steps to deal with future sea level rise and other
        climate change related events.
    x   Hearing a presentation from MAPC Government Affairs staff on proposed
        legislation around zoning reform and how it could impact North Shore
        communities.
    x   Hosting annual informational meeting on how North Shore Task Force
        communities can take advantage of District Local Technical Assistance
        Funding and new MAPC Technical Assistance funding opportunities.
        North Shore technical assistance funded projects in 2016 included the High
        Street Corridor Study in Danvers, completion of a Visioning Plan with
        Manchester as Phase One of its Master Plan and the beginning of
        Visioning Plan with Middleton as it moves forward to update its Master




                                      154
               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


    Plan. Other North Shore projects included the completion of a stormwater
    prevention project with Ipswich under the Massachusetts Department of
    Environmental Protection’s 604b grant program to identify the top three
    sites to install stormwater remediation projects in Ipswich impacting the
    Ipswich River
x   Holding a regional legislative forum with the North Suburban Planning
    Council in which North Shore and Norths Suburban legislators were able
    to frame concerns and goals for the upcoming year and network with
    NSTF and NSPC members. MAPC Government Affairs staff also
    highlighted MAPC legislative achievements for the 2016 session, and
    outlined priority themes for the 2017 session.
x   Holding a workshop in collaboration with staff from Salem, Peabody and
    consultant Weston and Sampson on the two cities’ successful Brownfields
    Assessment grant efforts. The success of the program has led to the
    creation of a revolving loan fund in Salem where owners with
    contaminated land can work with the City to obtain low interest
    remediation loans.
x   Working with the Cape Ann Trail Stewards and MAPC Trails and Open
    Space staff to present a North Shore Trails and Open Space Workshop.
    There is growing interest by NSTF members to connect North Shore open
    space and trail areas, linking area transit options with pedestrian and biking
    paths in the North Shore communities, reducing car use, pollution and
    congestion on local roads.




                                    155
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                 MUNICIPAL LIGHT DEPARTMENT

To the citizens of the Town of Marblehead:

The Marblehead Municipal Light Department is pleased to provide its 122nd annual
report and financial statements for the calendar year ending December 31, 2016.

The weather in the early months of 2016 was lees of a factor compared to the
previous year when the area experienced a parade of one hefty snow storm after
another. The extreme cold weather on Valentine’s Day did not adversely affect the
Department’s operation. Following the extreme cold power costs declined due to
the decline in global fuel prices. These factors drove our purchased power costs
down for the following months continuing into the Summer season.

The summer of 2016 experienced only a few days over ninety degrees and we did
not experience any prolonged heat waves. We set yearly demand peak for 2016 on
August 19th with the demand of 29.835 kilowatts. This was substantially below the
previous record of 31,639 KW set in 2013. Total energy consumption for the year
2016 still remains almost constant, decreasing from 105,294,644 kilowatt-hours in
2015 to 104,766,410 kilowatt-hours in 2016.

With greater than 50% of New England’s electricity production from fossil fuels,
and the largest share being natural gas, changes in the cost of fuels, either up or
down, will impact the wholesale cost of electricity in the region. The low cost of
natural gas of previous years has now led to congestion and availability problems on
the pipelines into New England. Residential use takes priority during the coldest
months for heating, leaving little left for power plants. This has in turn has caused
the need to run oil-fired generation more often in the winter months, which drives
up power prices due to increased fuel costs.

This continuing pressure on natural gas delivery has required MMLD to run our
diesel generators on occasion to support the power grid in the Northeastern
Massachusetts (or NEMA) zone, due to few generating stations in the area. It is
usually during times of system stress, such as extended cold or hot weather spells,
when our units are needed. The units are a proven resource for the town, reducing
our power purchase costs, reducing overall costs, and supplying the town with
emergency power if necessary.




                                        156
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Due to the importance of these generators to the town, we are currently performing
upgrades to the system, allowing these units to run as clean, quiet, and efficiently as
possible.

The end of 2016 brought another full year of energy production from our Berkshire
Wind Power Project, exemplifying the success of public power in conjunction with
renewable energy sources. This wind power project has once again exceeded
expectations in the production of clean energy. Berkshire Wind set a record
generating over 59% of the time in December. The town’s portion was once again
over 3,000,000 KWH of electricity. The Marblehead Municipal Light Department
will receive an additional amount of wind power from a new facility, Hancock
Wind, in Maine which went on line in December of 2016. This facility could
provide enough clean energy to Marblehead to double the present amount the Town
receives. Marblehead Municipal Light benefits from these renewable energy
resources through its membership in the Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale
Electric Company.

We did see an increase in local photovoltaic systems this year with seven new
residential systems installed. Presently there are twenty eight photovoltaic systems
installed on buildings in Marblehead. The Light Department has already been
contacted by another homeowner this year for the installation of photovoltaic
systems on their building.

Although new sources of generation supply are required to meet the needs of our
growing customer usage, we also recognize the importance of energy efficiency and
demand side management programs within our community to try and reduce some
of that growth requirement. Our programs provide various rebates when customers
buy more energy efficient appliances, programmable thermostats and cool home
rebates. Through this program, HELPS, administered by MMWEC, our customers
received over $7,500.00 during 2016. For further information on the Light
Department’s energy and conservation programs please visit our website at
www.marbleheadelectric.com or call 781-631-5600.

Marblehead Municipal Light Department’s Automated Metering System is
continuing to prove itself as a valuable tool. During outages to our customers, we
are notified through the Smart Meter System as to the location of the outage. This
notification in turn allows for faster restoration by identifying the location of the
failed electrical component. There are times when our electrical crews are already
on the way to repair outages before our customers make us aware there is a
problem. These types of smart systems are the future of the utility business.




                                         157
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



As part of the light department’s continuing 5-year budget and work-plan, work
continued on several distribution projects in 2015.

    x    Work on the Ocean Avenue (Marblehead Neck) conductor upgrade project
         was completed in 2016.

    x    The rebuilding of the poles and wire on a portion of Evans Road was
         completed in 2016.

    x    New poles and spacer cable construction were installed on Bayview Road
         during 2016 and should be completed in 2017

    x    The installation of replacement LED street lighting on portions of Atlantic
         Avenue, Ocean Avenue, and Pleasant Street were completed in 2016.
         These replacements will continue until almost all of the Town’s existing
         street lights are LED.

    x    Work had begun on the Clifton Avenue conductor upgrade project by
         setting all new poles, and installing new hardware. Completion of this
         project should be in 2017.

In addition to our distribution and construction projects, we also completed the
review and design process for the Commercial Street Building renovation. There
are few options in a town so fully developed, so relocating or new construction were
both ruled out as options. The department retained Winter Street Architects of
Salem to work with us to develop plans and go forward on this project. Bids for the
project were received in November and a General Contractor was awarded the
project in January of 2017. The original Commercial Street building was updated in
1969, adding the business offices to the generating facility. The building is in need
of considerable work to bring it up to today’s building code requirements.
Originally constructed in 1894 the building has served MMLD well. The renovated
building will be energy efficient having a Geothermal heating and cooling system.
The building will be LEED Certified with thoughtful design and respect for the past.
In May we temperately relocated our Business Office to Tioga Way and have since
relocated our line personnel to Tioga Way also. Construction has begun on our
Commercial Street facility and we look forward to its’ completion.




                                        158
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Net surplus revenue that was returned to the Town to reduce the tax levy in 2016
was $330,000, part of the thirteen-year cumulative amount through 2015, totaling
$5,430,000.

Appreciation is tendered to the Board of Selectmen, Town Officials, Department
Heads, and to all Town employees for their continued support, cooperation, and
contributions.


Respectfully Submitted,

Andrew F. Hadden, General Manager
Michael A. Hull, Chairman
Walter E. Homan, Commissioner
Michael A. Tumulty, Commissioner
Joseph T. Kowalik, Commissioner
Michael J. Maccario, Commissioner




                                     159
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


MMLD                   MUNICIPAL LIGHT DEPARTMENT

                                   BALANCE SHEET

                          For the year ending December 31, 2016

                                          Assets

   Plant Investments                                                  12,285,583.96

   Current Assets:
     Cash - Operating                                  4,409,006.01
            Petty Cash                                       500.00
            Construction                                  18,908.88
     Accounts Receivable                               2,603,196.59
     Interest Receivable                                       0.00
     Materials & Supplies                                 74,693.41
        Total Current Assets                                           7,106,304.89


   Depreciation Fund                                                   6,949,454.36
   Insurance Escrow Account                                              972,279.29
   Hydro Savings Reserve                                                  42,108.77
   MMWEC - NEPEX Reserve Trust                                           582,542.27
   Rate Stabilization Reserve                                            900,000.00
   Consumer Deposits                                                     168,661.00
   Prepayments                                                         1,703,427.86
        Total Assets                                                  30,710,362.40




                                  Liabilities And Surplus

   Accounts Payable:
     Depreciation                                          1,775.61
     Operating                                         1,445,838.80
     Construction                                              0.00
     Consumer Deposits                                     4,567.00
        Total Accounts Payable                                         1,452,181.41

   Consumer Deposits                                                     164,094.00
   Reserve for Uncollectible Accounts                                    322,961.76
   Reserve for Future Compensated Absences                               100,301.66
   Accumulated Provision For Rate Stabilization                          900,000.00
   Opeb Liability                                                        560,693.96
   Unappropriated Earned Surplus                                      27,210,129.61
        Total Liabilities And Surplus                                 30,710,362.40




                                          160
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


MMLD                       MUNICIPAL LIGHT DEPARTMENT

                                   STATEMENT OF INCOME

                               For the year ending December 31, 2016



       Operating Revenue                                                  16,347,200.67

       Less Expenses:
          Operating                                       12,465,596.63
          Maintenance                                      1,010,638.44
          Depreciation                                     1,482,805.22
             Total Expenses                                               14,959,040.29

       Operating Income                                                    1,388,160.38

       Interest Income                                                       24,785.22

       Other Income                                                                0.00

       Less Miscellaneous Income Deductions                                  20,248.61

       Net Income Transferred to Surplus                                   1,392,696.99




                                   STATEMENT OF SURPLUS

                               For the year ending December 31, 2016



       Balance December 31, 2015                                          25,934,405.16

       Add: Credit balance transferred from income                         1,392,696.99
           Adjustment to transfer prior years
           Power Refunds to surplus                                                0.00

       Subtotal                                                           27,327,102.15

       Deduct: Amount transferred to Town Treasurer
                 to reduce the Tax Levy                                     (330,000.00)
               In Lieu Of Tax Payment to City Of Salem                        (4,966.61)
               Auditor's adjusting entries for year
                 ended December 2015                                        217,994.07

       Balance December 31, 2016                                          27,210,129.61




                                                161
               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016

                         MUNICIPAL LIGHT DEPARTMENT
MMLD
                                    OPERATING EXPENSES

                              For the year ending December 31, 2016

       Power Generation Expenses:
         Fuel                                                 25,540.36
         Generating Expense - Lubricants                        (759.00)
         Misc. Other Power Generating Expense                  2,114.69
         Maint. of Other Power Generation                    166,168.15
            Total Power Generation Expense                                   193,064.20

       Power Supply Expenses:
         Electric Energy Purchased                         7,606,558.77
         Misc. Purchased Power Expense                     2,318,774.87
            Total Power Supply Expenses                                     9,925,333.64

       Transmission Expense:
          Maintenance of Overhead Lines                                             0.00

       Distribution Expenses:
          Station Expense - Labor & Other                     23,571.07
          Station Expense - Heat & Electricity                12,903.99
          Street Lighting                                      3,402.13
          Meter Expense - Inspection, Testing,
                          Removing, Resetting                 48,970.94
          Customer Installation Expense                       20,057.54
          Misc. Distribution Expense                         166,285.60
          Maintenance of Structures                                0.00
          Maintenance of Station Equipment                    49,338.56
          Maint. of Overhead & Underground Lines             674,079.67
          Maintenance of Line Transformers                     9,695.58
          Maintenance of Meters                               16,319.64
            Total Distribution Expenses                                     1,024,624.72

       Customer Account Expenses:
         Supervision of Customer Accounting                   96,945.53
         Meter Reading - Labor & Expenses                     19,799.99
         Customer Records & Collections                      220,774.95
         Uncollectible Accounts                              (64,973.53)
         Interest Paid on Consumer Deposits                      669.50
            Total Customer Account Expenses                                  273,216.44

       Advertising, Conservation, Energy Audits                               70,971.12

       Administrative & General Expenses:
         Administrative Salaries                             207,828.00
         Office Supplies & Expenses                          266,325.42
         Outside Services Employed                            71,964.41
         Property Insurance                                   38,586.82
         Injuries & Damages                                      817.00
         Rents                                                83,357.55
         Employee's Pensions & Benefits                    1,182,901.85
         Maintenance of General Plant                         38,060.18
         Transportation                                       56,976.66
         Miscellaneous General Expense                        42,207.06
            Total Administrative & Gen. Expenses                            1,989,024.95

            Total Operating & Maintenance Expenses                         13,476,235.07




                                             162
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


MMLD
                 MUNICIPAL LIGHT DEPARTMENT

                  NOTE TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                       For the year ending December 31, 2016

The Marblehead Municipal Light Department has since 1971 entered into power
agreements for the supply of electric energy to the Town of Marblehead. The
agreements are of varying terms with multiple suppliers ranging out to 2025. The
aggregate amount of certain obligations under the agreements as of December 31,
2016 and estimated for future years is $480,000.00. This sum represents a
significant part of the fixed cost portion of existing contracts for electric energy and
is accounted for in the monthly billing process. Complete audited financial
statements and supplementary reports are available at the Marblehead Municipal
Light Department.




                                        163
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                  OLD BURIAL HILL COMMITTEE

The Old Burial Hill Committee was established in 2009 by the Board of Selectmen
to oversee and ensure the restoration of Old Burial Hill. The committee is
comprised of five members, appointed annually by the Board of Selectmen.
Members are Richard Coletti, Chairman, Bette Hunt, Chris Butler, Pam Peterson
and Sue Hogan. The Board generally meets on the third Wednesday of each month
at 3:00 pm in the Selectmen’s Meeting Room in Abbot Hall and as needed at other
times. All meetings are open to the public.

The Committee’s work is guided by a detailed Preservation Master Plan which was
developed for Old Burial Hill and funded by a grant from the Massachusetts
Historic Commission and town funds. In addition to monument conservation, the
plan provides an assessment of the grounds, with details on appropriate restoration
and improvements to the grounds. In accordance with the recommendations, this
year the brick walkway was restored. The project was generously funded by the
Harold B. and Elizabeth L. Shattuck Memorial Fund, administered by the National
Grand Bank

The Committee would like to thank Sue Hogan who decided not to be reappointed.
The Committee welcomes Standley Goodwin who was appointed by the Board of
Selectmen to replace Ms. Hogan. The Committee also thanks Chris Johnson and
the Historic Commission who were responsible for securing funding for the
walkway project. Also thanks to Rebecca Curran Cutting, Town Planner who
administered the activities of the Board. Lastly, thank you to all of those who
continue to contribute financially for the benefit of the Old Burial Hill.

Respectfully yours,

Richard Coletti, Chairman
Chris Butler
Standley Goodwin
Bette Hunt
Pam Peterson




                                       164
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



        OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISSION

In 2016 the Old and Historic Districts Commission (OHDC) held 19 meetings
consisting of 136 applications, 9 of which were sent to Public Hearing. The
Commission granted 128 Certificates of Appropriateness.

The Commission saw a wide variety of applications for work in the Districts, many
involving replacement windows. The Commission continues efforts to publicize
guidelines surrounding windows that are historically appropriate for the Districts.
The OHDC Guidelines available online offer information on windows as well as
other features that the Commission regulates.

The Commission also saw a number of infractions in the Districts. Most of these
involved starting work without prior OHDC approval. Failure to apply for and
obtain a Certificate of Appropriateness for work under OHDC purview violates
Town By-laws and will result in a Building Department Stop Work Order as well as
a demand to appear before the Commission. Violations that are not resolved in a
timely manner will be pursued and can result in lien action against the property.

Administration of the OHDC is coordinated by the Engineering Department at the
Mary Alley Municipal Building. Meeting minutes are posted on the Town website
and applications are scanned and entered into a database accessible to other Town
Departments.

The Commission would like to acknowledge with thanks the assistance of the
Building Inspection Department, Assessors’ Department, Town Clerk’s Office,
Engineering Department, and the Selectmen’s Office. Also, the Commission
wishes to welcome the new Building Commissioner, Rich Baldacci. We greatly
appreciate his efforts and support of the OHDC mission.


Respectfully submitted,
Charles Hibbard, Chairman
Gary Amberik, Secretary
Liz Mitchell
Sally Sands
Anthony M. Sasso




                                       165
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                           PLANNING BOARD

The Planning Board is an elected board comprised of five members and one
alternate member, each with a three year term. The board members for the year
2016 were James Bishop, Philip Helmes, Barton Hyte, Edward Nilsson and Robert
Schaeffner. Rossana Ferrante served as the board’s alternate. Philip Helmes serves
as chairman.      The Town Planner, Rebecca Cutting, oversees the board's
administrative process and provides technical assistance to prospective applicants
and interested parties.

The Planning Board meets regularly on the second Tuesday of each month and as
needed at other times. The regular meetings are held in the selectmen’s meeting
room in Abbot Hall at 7:30 PM. The agendas are posted on the town’s website and
at the office of the Town Clerk.

It is the responsibility of the Planning Board to approve different types of
development including divisions of land to create new lots, all new nonresidential
buildings over 700 square feet and all new residential construction and also
additions that are over 500 square feet within the shoreline and harbor front
districts. In addition to the site plan approval special permits and subdivision
control approvals, the board issues smart growth special permits, wireless
communication special permits, incentive zoning special permits and land
disturbance permits for larger projects when there is no conservation commission
jurisdiction. State and local laws which govern the process for these approvals are
Massachusetts General Laws (MGL) Chapter 40A (the Zoning Act); MGL Chapter
41, Sections 81K – 81GG (the Subdivision Control Law); the Town of Marblehead
Subdivision Rules and Regulations Chapter 258 of the by-laws of the town of
Marblehead , MGL Chapter 40A and the Town of Marblehead Zoning Bylaws.

In 2016 there were:
         6 Approval Not Required – Form A applications (ANR)
         12 Site Plan Approval Special Permit applications
         1 Wireless Communication Facility Special Permit
         2 Land Disturbance Permits
         Several modifications, extensions and waivers

Planning Board members continue to serve on a variety of Boards and Committees
in 2013 including Jim Bishop - Metropolitan Area Planning Council, Edward
Nilsson on the Zoning Sub-Committee and Design Review Committee.




                                       166
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



The Planning Board thanks the Board of Appeals in the coordination and
cooperation on various projects throughout the year. The board also thanks the
Building Department for information on zoning interpretation and other assistance.
The board wishes to especially thank Bob Ives who retired as Building
Commissioner in 2016 and had been very helpful to the board on a variety of issues
for many years. The board welcomed Rich Baldacci the new Building
Commissioner who replaced Mr. Ives earlier in the year.

The Board thanks Charlie Quigley the new Town Engineer who provides technical
assistance to the board and to prospective applicants. Planning Board applications
are processed in the Engineering Department by Jennifer Titus. As always, the
board extends special thanks Jen for her assistance in keeping the board running
smoothly.

Philip Helmes, Chairman
James Bishop
Barton Hyte
Edward O. Nilsson
Robert Schaeffner
Rossana Ferrante – Alternate
Rebecca Cutting – Town Planner




                                      167
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                         POLICE DEPARTMENT

The Marblehead Police Department is pleased to submit to the citizens of
Marblehead our Annual Report for the year ending December 31, 2016.

For the year 2016, the police department logged a total of 11,138 incidents requiring
police response. Of that number 274 involved felonies. The department had a total
of 156 arrests during the year; 30 for protective custody. In addition 155 people
were summoned to court without having been arrested. Police officers stopped
1001 motor vehicles for various violations and issued 684 traffic citations. There
were 277 reported motor vehicle crashes reported in 2016. Officers issued 2820
parking tickets during the year.

Statistically, we are pleased to report that Marblehead saw a drop in the crime rate
last year in several categories reportable to the F.B.I. In the major crime Group A,
there was a 15% drop in crimes against persons and an 18% drop in crimes against
property. In the category of crimes against society, we saw a marked increase.
Crimes against society would include such crimes as Drug/Narcotic crimes, certain
crimes involving obscene materials and certain weapons law violations. This
increase is largely attributable to drug violations, more specifically; Marblehead is
seeing what the rest of the country is seeing as a result the opioid crisis. In the
lesser crimes Group B, the department saw virtually no statistical change since last
year.

During 2016 the Marblehead Police Department logged 26 opioid overdoses which
involved 21 different people. The statistics represent 5 individuals who overdosed
more than once. Of the total number of overdoses that we responded to 4 deaths
occurred which will likely be attributed to an overdose of opioids. In response to
this public health crisis, the Town formed an Opioid Working Group. That group is
represented by members of key Town department heads including Police, Fire,
Schools, COA and the Counseling Center. The group is charged with the mission of
coordinating the municipal response as well as raising public awareness. The
Towns web site has been updated with resources for those in need and a brochure of
available resources was produced and is widely available in all Town office
buildings. Work is ongoing for a public forum scheduled in early 2017 and will be
open to the public. The Town of Marblehead recognizes that it is not immune from
this problem and this department thanks the Board of Selectmen and the Town
Administrator for making this issue a priority.




                                        168
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


In 2016 the police department saw several changes in personnel. Officer Michael
Maccario transferred to the Tewksbury Police Department and officer Christopher
Donahue transferred to the Salem Fire Department. Additionally, Dispatcher Luis
Torres left for a position closer to home and Anthony Boccuzzi was hired as his
replacement. Deborah Frongillo retired from her position as secretary to the Chief
and was replaced by Margo Sullivan, who transferred from the Cemetery
Department. Deb was with the department for over 20 years and in the employ of
the Town for even longer. She will be sorely missed. We wish all the employees
who have retired or left the best in future endeavors.

I would also like to commend the officers and staff, both sworn and civilian, for
their dedication and professionalism in service to the Town of Marblehead.

Finally, we would like to thank the citizens of Marblehead for their continued
support.


Respectfully Submitted,
Robert O. Picariello
Chief of Police


Police Department Personnel 2016:

Ranking Officers:
Chief                     Robert O. Picariello
Captain                   Matthew Freeman
Lieutenant                Jonathan Lunt
Lieutenant                Michael Everett
Lieutenant                Sean Sweeney
Lieutenant                David Ostrovitz
Sergeant                  Jason Conrad
Sergeant                  Nicholas Economou
Sergeant                  Sean Brady
Sergeant                  Eric Osattin

Patrol Officers:
Charles Sinclair          Arthur Buckley Jr. (Retired)
Timothy Morley            Roy Ballard
Christopher Adkerson      Adam Mastrangelo




                                      169
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Christopher Gallo         Andrew Clark
Dean Peralta              Nicholas Michaud
Jason McDonald            Dennis DeFelice
Michael Roads             Michael Maccario (Transferred to Tewkesbury Police)
Daniel Gagnon             Neil Comeau
Shane Hogan               Christopher Donahue (Transferred to Salem Fire Dept.)
Brendan Finnegan          Andrew DiMare
Theresa Gay               Timothy Tufts
Douglas Mills

E-911 Dispatchers:
Amy Gilliland - Supervisor
Scott Kaufman            Alexandria Michaud
Teresa Collins            Harry Schwartz
Gregory Lapham            Anthony Boccuzzi

Senior Clerk:
Deborah Frongillo (Retired)
Margo Sullivan

Part Time Clerk:
Celia Martin (Transferred to Cemetery Dept.)

General labor:
Douglas Laing

School Traffic Supervisors:
Thomas Adams              Douglas Bates
Edythe Chalifour          Ruth Curtis
Robert Delisle            Wendy Keyes
Susan L’Etoile            Patrick Malin
Bunny McCarter            Katherine Millett
Leroy Millett             Robin Reed
Calvin Powers             Rufus Titus
Peter Preble              Leslie Teague
John Spanks




                                      170
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                            ANIMAL CONTROL

In 2016, there were 3015 dogs licensed in the Town of Marblehead. Animal
Control received 1915 calls for service during the year. The Animal Control Officer
issued 211 citations for various violations. 84 cats were reported lost, 11 cats were
hit by motor vehicles or were found deceased by unknown means. Of all the
animals reported missing, 16 owners notified us of having found their pet with an
additional 42 owners who did not return our follow up calls.

In 2016, 243 pets were adopted out to loving homes. 38 dogs and 6 cats were
picked up as strays by the animal control officers. Of that number, 42 were returned
to their owners and 2 were adopted to a new forever home. There were 9 cases of
animal neglect investigated as well as 1 case of animal cruelty. There was 1 vicious
dog investigation and 33 sick or vicious wild animals were euthanized.

In April, all 3 Animal Control Officers completed the required Core Competencies
training passing with distinction, putting them in the top 5% of animal control
officers in Massachusetts during 2016. Completion of this course brings
Marblehead into compliance with new Massachusetts laws regarding animals.

The animal shelter had a very successful year. We are extremely grateful to the 70
volunteers who are always there for the shelter pets awaiting their forever homes. It
saddens us to say that 3 of our beloved shelter cats, Blizzard, Moon Pie and
Penelope succumbed to illness in 2016. All three passed over the rainbow bridge
with a loving volunteer or Animal Control Officer by its side.

Every year since Jeff and Annie Rockwell opened their practice in Marblehead they
have given countless hours of their time assisting the Animal Control Department.
This year, they became the Animal Inspectors along with Sheena Sweeney, further
ensuring pet and public safety. Thanks also go out to Our Family Veterinary
Hospital for their additional support.

We would like to remind all residents that The Town of Marblehead has a 24/7
leash law. There is not a time of year in which dogs can be off leash. There is a
dog park on Tioga way which is the ONLY off leash area for dogs in Marblehead.
All other areas of town are subject to off leash citations.

REMEMBER TO LEASH, AND LICENCE YOUR DOG!




                                        171
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Respectfully Submitted,

Betsy Cruger
Animal Control Officer


Animal Control Division:
Animal Control Officer Betsy Cruger
Assistant                Laura Consigli
Assistant                Diane Treadwell

Animal Inspector:
Jeffrey Rockwell
Annie Rockwell
Sheena Sweeney




                                    172
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                       RECREATION AND PARKS

The Recreation and Parks Commission submits this report for the year ending
December 31, 2016.

The Commission is made up of five residents who are elected annually at a general
town election on the second Monday in May each year. The Commission’s
regularly scheduled meetings are held on the first and third Tuesday of each month
at 7:00 PM in the Community Center at 10 Humphrey Street. These meetings
consist of reports, the appearance of persons or groups on the agenda, the review of
correspondence submitted for consideration, discussions of plans and objectives,
and reviews of policies, rules, and regulations as needed. The Commission reviews
and approves the hiring of personnel when recommendations are presented.
Programs and budgets are reviewed by the Commission annually and they act as an
advocate with the Finance Committee and at Town Meeting. The Commission also
reviews and approves the fees and charges made for various uses and programs
concerning the department. The Commission has responsibility for overseeing the
programming, rental, and operation of the Community Center. Night and weekend
fees and rental charges are used from the Revolving Fund to contribute to the
operating and utility costs of the Community Center.

Fields and School Athletic Facility Maintenance

The Department maintained the fields and was responsible for the field preparation,
including lines, for the following sports: High School (Varsity, Junior Varsity, and
Frosh): football, baseball, softball, lacrosse, soccer, and field hockey; Youth Sports
baseball, softball, lacrosse and football; men’s softball and soccer, and co-ed
softball.

Spring required the lining of fields for Varsity school sports first followed by Youth
Sports, mid-April through the summer, adult softball through September followed
by Varsity/JV soccer, field hockey, and football at the end of August. In
September, October, and November, all varsity, junior varsity and middle school
football, soccer, and field hockey fields and youth sports fields were maintained for
their seasons.

The mowing and trimming of athletic fields is done on weekdays with school in
session due to extensive usage on afternoons, evenings, and weekends. Line
marking with latex paint and/or non-caustic chalk is also done while classes are




                                        173
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


inside the schools. Mowing of properties began in early April and continued
through November on a five day per week schedule. The turf field at Piper is
groomed on a three week cycle following the manufacturer specifications creating a
smooth surface. Leaf cleanups ran October through December, and spring cleanups
ran March through May. In cooperation with the school department special
playground fiber (surfacing) was purchased and added to all school and town
playgrounds as needed for safety to reduce the chance of injuries due to falls. The
department was unable to “manicure” the grounds at the Schools due to budget and
manpower limitations; plantings and mulch were added as time and materials
allowed.

Budget and staff limitations, requests for extra work, and changes on short notice
remained a continual problem. Early spring and late fall field scheduling depended
on when fields were dormant, wet, frozen, or overused in any one area. Fall
remains the best time to do seeding and sod work on fields but was frequently in
conflict with the demands of the activities scheduled and the department’s continual
shortage of funds, materials, and manpower vs. those demands. Renovations have
begun on several properties in town. The Fitness Trail at Seaside and the trail
leading into Gatchell’s playground from Rainbow Road are being worked on by
Richie Laperchia and Joe Dever for their Eagle Scout projects. The Grandstand at
Seaside was renovated for the 100 Anniversary of this Historic site. Renovations
have begun at the house at Stramski. Locker rooms, a sailing classroom,
bathrooms, and conference rooms will be located within the house.

During the year a sports utilization group met at the Community Center with Sam
Ganglani and Linda Rice Collins acting as liaisons for the Commission. The group
kept communications and scheduling concerns open so the various town sports
teams and coaches could minimize conflicts and maximize usage.

All line marking, mowing, and field schedule changes were coordinated by Grounds
Foreman Peter James. In the spring and fall seasonal employees, Bill and Frank
James maintained the lines on varsity and youth sports fields. There efforts
continually earned praise from the school athletic department and youth sports
leagues. The field paint budget continues to be strained by additional field requests
and rising paint costs. The parks maintenance expense budget was again level
funded while material and delivery costs continued to increase.

The Commission received numerous requests for fund raising and business use of
the Community Center and the parks. These requests must be approved by a vote of
the Commission as required in the Town By-laws. Among those approved were:




                                        174
              MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



   At the community center:
         o The Board of Health Flu Shot Clinics
         o The Marblehead Arrangers Garden Club Christmas plant and
             arrangement sale during the Christmas Walk
         o The Democratic Town Committee Caucus
         o Scouting functions
         o Marblehead Family fund “Touch a Truck”
         o Marblehead Youth Badminton
         o Marblehead Youth Basketball
         o Adult Futsol
         o Free seminars
         o New Recreation opportunities
   Hamond Nature Center:
         o The Massachusetts Audubon Society sponsored a camp program
             during July with the staff from the Ipswich River Sanctuary
             supervising.
         o Increased Recreation offerings
   Devereux Beach and parking areas:
         o Senior Class Carnival
         o The M.S. Walk in April
         o The Boston Children’s Hospital “Cycle for Life” used the beach
             to begin and end its fund raising bike ride
         o Marblehead Rotary Club’s Great Race
         o Rally for Allie
         o Several other bicycle and road races used the beach to begin and
             end events
         o Rack storage for prams/kayaks
         o Winter dock storage
   Gerry Playground:
         o Several Cub Scout outings
         o Eco Farm Co-operative Market from spring through fall
         o Rack storage for prams/kayaks
         o Intergenerational Gardens

   Other fields:
        o Boy Scout Troop 11 for the sale of Christmas trees at Gatchells
             Playground
        o Day for Denna




                                 175
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016




Building and Comfort Station (restroom) Maintenance

In addition to the community center other buildings required more attention due to
increased demand. The department continuously maintained a workshop and
equipment storage at Devereux Beach, the garage on Vine Street, Reynolds
playground storage room, Gerry locker room and sailing classroom room, Hamond
Nature Center and the Seaside Park grandstand storage area. Installation and
maintenance of the memorial benches located at Chandler Hovey, Memorial Park,
Crocker Park, Seaside, Gatchell’s, Fountain Park, and Redd’s Pond also occurred.

The department maintained comfort stations (restrooms) at the following locations:
Chandler Hovey Park, Devereux Beach, Crocker Park, Fort Sewall, Reynolds
Playground, Gerry Playground, Gatchells Playground, and Hamond Nature Center
on a seasonal basis. Water & Sewer costs, electricity, cleaning supplies, and paper
goods came from the department budget. Doggie bags were provided through the
department’s budget at Chandler Hovey Park, Crocker Park, Redd’s Pond and Fort
Sewall. Dogs are prohibited from all athletic fields and children’s playgrounds; all
other Parks require dogs to be leashed and dog waste is required by law to be
disposed of in proper safe receptacles designed for fecal waste disposal (not public
trash barrels).

Equipment Replacement and Seasonal Staffing

The department continued to look for reliable seasonal maintenance staff from April
through November, utilizing college students during the summer school break
which left us short staffed during spring and fall months when we needed them the
most. This has resulted in the shifting of budget monies to allow for use of sub-
contracting in some areas to meet the demands of grounds maintenance.

Facility & Grounds Landscape Maintenance Program

The Parks staff was responsible for the landscape maintenance, mowing, trimming
of trees and shrubs, and removal of litter on the following properties in 2015 (Note:
“*” denotes athletic fields requiring continuous mowing, lining, and reconditioning
for the Town’s sports programs):




                                        176
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


 Recreation, Parks, &          Cemetery & Historic
                                                          Public Landings:
 Forestry Properties:               Grounds:
   Castle Rock Park           Cressy Street Cemetery        Barnegat trash
 Chandler Hovey Park          Green Street Cemetery      Clark Landing trash
  Community Center            Hooper Tomb Cemetery         Cloutmans trash
     Crocker Park             Harris Street Cemetery    Commercial Street trash
   Devereux Beach            Old Burial Hill Cemetery     Parker Yard trash
      Fort Beach                   Redd’s Pond           Tucker Wharf Trash
                                Waterside Cemetery
     Fountain Park              (when requested by
                              Cemetery Department)
   Gerry Playground          School Dept. properties:   Other Public Grounds:
                                Beacon/Green Street
* Gatchells Playground                                        Fort Sewall
                                      reserve
 * Hobbs Playground                 Bell School           Gas House Beach
  * Orne Playground               Coffin School          Grace Oliver’s Beach
* Reynolds Playground             Eveleth School            Red Steps Way
    * Seaside park                 Gerry School         Fort Sewall turnaround
    Memorial Park                 Glover School           Brookhouse Drive
                                * Marblehead High
Devereux Beach garage                                    Gallison Avenue Way
                                      School
    Vine St. Garage            Lincoln Ave. reserve        Gatchells Green
                               * The Village Middle
                                                          Lovis Cove Beach
                                      School
                               * The Veterans Junior
                                   High School
                                                            Conservation
                             Other Public Building’s
         Other:                                          Commission Lands
                                   properties:
                                                         (As labor permits):
                                                         Bicycle, Exercise, &
 All public shade trees            Abbot Hall
                                                          conservation trails
Traffic Islands (donated)        Abbot Library             Robinson Farm
 All Public litter barrels         Gun House            Hamond Nature Center
                               Mary Alley Building           Forest River
                                 OKO Building              Hawthorn Pond
                                Old Town House              Steer Swamp
                                 Powder House              Wyman Woods
                               Tower Way Grounds              Ware Pond




                                      177
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Recreation Programs: Winter and Spring 2016

The department continued to offer programs at the Community Center and other
town facilities including: Saturday morning Youth Basketball, a winter pre-school
“indoor park”, pre-school T-ball, after school sports clinics, “Wicked Cool for
Kids” science classes, Lego workshops, piano lessons, kids boot camp and a
basketball program for girls in grades 2 – 8. Family fun events occurred throughout
the year beginning with a Winter Carnival in January, our Daddy/Daughter Dance
took place in February, followed by Breakfast with the Easter Bunny in March,
Pumpkin decorating in October, and Breakfast with Santa in December. Evenings
featured adult pickup volleyball on Mondays and Thursdays, adult pickup
basketball program on Tuesdays and Sundays and adult badminton on Wednesdays
and Sundays. Marblehead Youth Badminton and Marblehead Youth Basketball also
rented time in the gym for their programs on weekday afternoons. The first annual
Tom Hamond Run through the trails at the Hamond Nature Center occurred in May
and was a great success.

A number of free community events such as the Movie in park during the summer
months, dog parade, and field day were also well attended.

Summer and Fall 2016 Recreation Programs

The department continued providing numerous summer outdoor programs (with
rain locations provided) including the Summer Park program for children (ages 5 –
11). The program met at Gatchell playground for seven weeks, from June to
August. The revamped program averaged 120 participants a week and became the
most talked about program around town. Other programs offered included
Magician’s football, field hockey, basketball, baseball, softball, track, dry ice,
soccer, and lacrosse clinics; tennis lessons; youth sailing classes at Gerry
Playground; and kayaking and SUP instruction through the Little Harbor Boat
House and SUP with SUP East Coast Style at Riverhead. Kayak rental were also
available through the Recreation and Parks at Riverhead. Multi sports clinics, legos,
theatre, creative writing, scrapbooking and nature programs occurred throughout the
summer. During the fall, the number of indoor programs at the Community Center
increased and included new programs such as: Pickleball, Junior League Soccer,
Little Ninjas Karate, Futsol and First Aid and CPR programs.




                                        178
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Department Staff
The Recreation and Parks Department is very fortunate to have a great staff of full
and part-time employees. Our employees strive to make a positive difference and
are committed to our community and, are willing to go the extra mile.

We want to thank the Department’s employees for their dedication to our Town’s
natural resources and recreation opportunities. The following people worked for the
Departments during the past year:
   Peter James, Acting Department Superintendent
   Jaime Bloch, Assistant Superintendent for Recreation
   Ric Reynolds, Senior Clerk
   Peter R. James, Working Foreman/Building and Grounds
   Robert Gillis, Parks Maintenance Craftsman
   Greg Snow, Maintenance Craftsman/Mechanic
   Paul Acciavatti, Brad Delisle, and Paul Bartlett, Maintenance/Groundskeepers.

There are many instructors who worked in the various recreation programs,
playground, and other leisure services within the department in the parks and at the
Community Center. Also, there were seasonal maintenance workers and caretakers
for the parks, and summer maintenance workers and lifeguards at Devereux Beach.

The Commission would like to thank the staffs of the Tree, Highway, Health,
Harbormaster, Building, Schools, Finance, Municipal Light, Cemetery, Police, Fire,
and Water/Sewer Departments for their continued support and the Town
Administrator, Town Clerk’s, and Selectmen’s office for their assistance during the
past year.

Every year there are many who volunteer with maintenance and recreation
programs for the Town. The Commission wants to express its thanks on behalf of
all the residents who benefit from the countless hours volunteered, making
Marblehead a great place to live.

Respectfully submitted,

Chip Osborne, Chairman
Derek Norcross                     Gerald Tucker
Linda Rice-Collins                 Sam Ganglani

Peter James
Acting Superintendent, Recreation & Parks




                                       179
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



             SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES

The following work was completed for the year ending Dec 31, 2016:

Scales Sealed:                             41
Gas/Diesel fuel meters                      6
Scales Condemned:                           0
Scales Rechecked After Repairs              0
Consumer Complaints Investigated            0
Report Letter Written                       0
Apothecary Sets Sealed                      2

Respectfully submitted,


David C Rodgers
Sealer




                                     180
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                       SHELLFISH CONSTABLES

Devereux, Tucker’s, and Goldthwait beaches were opened for the harvesting of surf
clams on October 1, 2016. As of the writing of this report there were 89 licenses
issued to date for the 2016/2017 season. The clamming season in Marblehead is
historically during the months of September through April. The areas may open
later and close temporarily during the season when storms and environmental issues
arise.

Monitoring diggers, checking water quality and testing of the clams is performed
constantly by the Board of Health, MA Division of Marine Fisheries and local
residents that have volunteered to serve as Shellfish Constables It should be noted
that as the Town continues to address antiquated surface drainage issues and related
cross connections he future looks brighter for shellfishing in many areas in Town.

The Town Clerk and her staff have been very diligent in processing the paperwork
for the State and issuing licenses.

Respectfully submitted,

Wayne O. Attridge, Chief Shellfish Constable

Constables:
Douglas Aikman                     Eric Hawley
John Gregory Attridge              Douglas Percy
Raymond Bates Jr.                  Craig Smith, Asst. Harbormaster
Harry Christensen, Esq.            F. Webb Russell, Harbormaster
David Donahue
Rick Cuzner
Jeffrey Flynn




                                       181
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



            TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION

In the summer of 1989, a series of horrific hate crimes occurred at the Jewish
Community Center of the North Shore and Temple Emanu-el. The community
response to these crimes was that of outrage. At that time, a group of citizens
requested that the Board of Selectmen appoint a task force.

At their regular meeting on August 2, 1989, the Board voted to establish and
commission the Task Force against Discrimination to help fight acts of
discrimination, hatred and bigotry. Ever since, the Task Force has had a visible
presence in the town, meeting in open session on a regular basis, creating
informative programming and responding to situations that have arisen. The
committee is appointed yearly by the Board of Selectmen and includes members of
the clergy, educators, students, the Marblehead Police Department and concerned
citizens.

The Task Force would like all citizens to know about the work of the Task Force
and how to reach out for help if needed. For this reason, the Task Force continues
to be grateful for the Town Moderator’s permission to display the town's No Place
for Hate banner at Town Meeting.

Several serious, overtly discriminatory incidents in Marblehead during 2016, as well
as an uptick in hate crimes nationwide, highlight the ongoing need for TFAD.
Despite some recent gains, racism, homophobia, anti-Semitism, able-ism, and
Islamophobia are still a present reality in the United States, in Massachusetts, and in
Marblehead. TFAD strongly believes that constant vigilance, swift and decisive
response to hateful speech and actions, education in the schools and wider
community, and a consistent message that Marblehead will not tolerate
discrimination are necessary to ensure the safety, dignity, and wellbeing of all
Marblehead’s residents and visitors.

Discriminatory incidents in 2016 in Marblehead of which we are aware include:
    x An anti-Semitic message of hate was left on the softball field behind
        Marblehead High School.
    x Kindergarteners were taken on a tour of the town to look for homes
        identified by yellow stars. When parents expressed concern regarding the
        historical significance of yellow stars used by Nazis to identify Jews
        during World War II, the teacher refused to acknowledge the insensitivity
        and refused to alter the activity.




                                         182
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


    x     Swastikas were found at the Marblehead Veteran’s Middle School.
    x     Religious taunts were used in Marblehead Veteran’s Middle School.
    x     An elementary age child of color was threatened by another student who
          stated that, “Trump would kill” them.
     x In the Village School two separate incidences occurred regarding religious
          differences.
     x A woman crossing the street and wearing a head covering was screamed at
          by a man in a truck who yelled, “Go back to where you belong.”
     x A black male was walking across the causeway minding his own business.
          A passer-by noticed him and approached a police officer on detail
          inquiring about the individual. The individual was merely walking to the
          yacht club where he works.
     x Additional racial epithets were used at Marblehead Veteran’s Middle
          School and in Marblehead High School.
With the uptick in hate and discrimination locally and nationally, the need for
Marblehead’s Task Force against Discrimination is even more pressing today than it
was at its founding 27 years ago in 1989. Children in Marblehead’s schools must
feel safe and respected, no matter what their faith, sexual orientation, class, gender
identity, physical or mental ability, or race. People walking on Marblehead’s streets
must feel welcome and honored, no matter what their age or country of origin. All
residents living in all of Marblehead’s neighborhoods must be free from racist
aggression and bigotry. The Task Force provides a critically needed service to the
community that significantly affects who we are as a town now and who we will
become over the next 27 years.

Marblehead is proud to be a “No Place for Hate” community, a designation earned
through the Anti-Defamation League. Obviously, these incidents run counter to that
designation. Marblehead citizens will find our “No Place for Hate” stickers proudly
displayed on over 100 businesses in town and these stickers are a reminder that
discrimination of any kind will not be tolerated. If you would like a sticker for your
home or business, please just ask.

As a reminder to the community, in addition to our local Task Force against
Discrimination, there are many resources available if you witness an incident or are
the target of hate. These resources include:

         Police: suspected violations of the hate crimes law should be reported to
         the police in the first instance so you can be informed of your rights. Please
         contact the Marblehead Police (781)-631-1212.




                                         183
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


         Attorney General Maura Healey: has established a hotline managed by
         attorneys and staff from the AG’s office. While not every incident will be
         appropriate for legal action, the AG’s office will be tracking reports and
         appropriate matters may be referred to local law enforcement or the
         Attorney General’s Criminal Bureau 1-800-994-3228.

         The Task Force Against Discrimination: Please reach us through the
         Selectmen’s office at 781-631-0000, wileyk@marblehead.org.

In 2016, Marblehead High School student Sophie Smith was appointed as student
representative to TFAD. In addition, Patti Rogers, Director of Abbot Library,
continues to provide ongoing opportunities for the Library and Task Force to
collaborate in effective and positive ways to support education and prevention.

The Task Force against Discrimination continues to call on Marblehead residents of
all ages, races, classes, sexual orientations, gender identities, faiths, physical and
mental abilities, and backgrounds, to join with the Task Force against
Discrimination in its ongoing efforts to ensure that Marblehead is a respectful,
supportive, welcoming, and inclusive community for its many and diverse citizens
and visitors.

Respectfully submitted,

Helaine R. Hazlett, Co-Chair
Rev. Dr. Anne Marie Hunter, Co-Chair
Ed Grogan
Chief Robert Picariello, Ex-Officio
Sophie Smith, MHS Student Representative
Loren Weston
Deacon John Whipple




                                        184
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



               MARBLEHEAD TREE DEPARTMENT

The following is a report of the Marblehead Tree Department for the year ended
December 31, 2016.

Public shade trees located on public ways are under the jurisdiction of the Tree
Warden and the four person tree crew. The department tries to identify and reduce
tree hazards along public ways including the parks, cemeteries, and school grounds.
The Warden also inspects all tree inquiries, whether made by phone or through the
online reporting system at marblehead.org, concerning the health or condition of a
tree and takes the necessary action to address the concern. Questions concerning
trees under the jurisdiction of the Conservation Commission are referred to the
Commission.

The drought conditions of 2016 still continue as of the writing of this report. We
saw many mature trees decline to the extent that they had to be removed. Some
young trees planted in recent years did not survive. This year the department
removed over 154 dead or hazardous trees and removed the same amount of stumps.
Limbs and branches were picked up on a daily basis and trees were pruned almost
daily. Fifteen trees were planted in the spring but because of the drought conditions
and the increase in tree removals, no other trees were planted by this department
this year. Telephone calls and online inquiries from residents regarding tree matters
remained heavy throughout the spring, summer and fall and every effort was made
to respond to and prioritize all concerns. Tree Department employees also assisted
the Marblehead Light Department (MLD) with line clearing and the Department of
Public Works (DPW) with snow plowing and snow removal. The Tree Department
annually purchases seedlings from the Massachusetts Tree Wardens Association
that are planted and cared for in conservation areas by the Marblehead Conservancy
and other volunteers.

In 2016 we were fortunate to be the recipients of a one-time grant with no recurring
costs of the software system “Tree-Tracker Municipal Forestry Management
Software” to help us modernize and computerize our department. This software is
expected to be installed in early 2017. We are grateful to Jennifer Smith in the
Selectman’s office for her help to secure this grant which will help us serve the
residents of Marblehead more efficiently.

I would like to thank the DPW, the Marblehead Light Department, the Water and
Sewer Department and the Marblehead Conservancy for their assistance throughout




                                        185
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


the year. I would especially like to thank the Tree Department employees for their
continued dedication and hard work in challenging circumstances this year as well
as the ongoing support from the residents of Town of Marblehead.


Respectfully submitted,

Doug Gordon, Tree Warden

Ed Park, Foreman
Art Beauchesne, Groundsman
Walter Leszczynski, Heavy Equipment Operator
Alex Fields, Tree Climber/Maintenance




                                      186
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                            VETERANS’ AGENT

I hereby submit my report as Veterans Agent, Flag Officer, Veterans Burial Officer,
and Veterans Graves Registration Officer for the year ending Dec 31, 2016.

My number one duty is to the Veterans of the Town of Marblehead and their
families. I continue to attend State and Federal training sessions and seminars to
remain updated in all aspects of Veterans Affairs.

Office records for 2016 indicate that 10 Veterans or their families filed for benefits
under Mass General Laws, Chapter 115. This chapter of the law provides assistance
to Veterans in need.

Requests for assistance in filing for Department of Veterans Affairs Benefits
(Federal) remained high. This office has encouraged enrollment in the VA
Healthcare System. Many Marblehead Veterans have taken advantage of this health
benefit, which includes obtaining daily prescription drugs for $9.00 per month for
each medication. Casket Flags and Grave Markers were the principal Death
Benefits filed for with the Department of Veterans Affairs

Packages were sent to our service men and women deployed overseas in the WAR
ON TERROR by C.A.P.T.S. I would also like to thank Post 32 American Legion,
The Gerry Five VFA, Chaplain Lyman Rollins VFW POST 2005, the Brings
Family(C.A.P.T.S), and all the people who donated to the Marblehead Veterans
Donation Account. Keep these brave men and women in your prayers and thoughts.

A special commemorative coin was given to DESERT STORM, IRAQ,
AFGHANISTAN, AMD THE PRESENT DAY WAR ON TERROR Veterans or
their surviving spouses on Veterans Day 2016.

A total of 57 Marblehead Veterans were laid to rest between Nov 11, 2015 and Nov
11, 2016. WORLD WAR TWO VETERANS numbers are few in town. As a town
and country we have an obligation to this generation of Americans, “THE
GREATEST GENERATION”. Service to our Veterans and their families remains
the most important goal of this office.
.

Respectfully submitted,
David C Rodgers, Veterans Agent




                                        187
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                WATER AND SEWER COMMISSION

The Water and Sewer Commission is pleased to submit its report for calendar year
2016. During the year, the Commission completed a major sewer main
rehabilitation project. The Naugus Sewer Pump Station Electrical Upgrade was
completed and the station was added to the growing list of sites that can be instantly
monitored by the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System. The design for
a replacement sewer pump station for the Clifton District was completed and
Contract #170 was awarded to N. Granese & Sons. The Water Department
completed upgrades to Burkes Tank and design work for the Tedesco Pump station
improvements commenced. The Drain Department started construction on Phase II
of the Pleasant Street Drainage Project. The Commission had engineering studies
done for each department this year that will provide information to be utilized
during capital improvement planning. The Commission enthusiastically promoted
Water Foreman Gregory Burt to Assistant Superintendent.

In 2016 the Water Department focused on the Cross Connection Program and
protection of water supply. The department increased the number of employees
who are state certified as cross connection surveyors and backflow prevention
testers. In addition to the Annual Lead and Copper testing performed by the
Department, all public school bubblers and sinks used for food preparation were
tested for lead and copper. This work was done in coordination with the
Massachusetts Water Resource Authority and all results can be found via links from
both the Water and School Department Web sites. The department continued with
its annual maintenance and inspection program that included painting, repair and
replacement of hydrants, water quality testing, backflow preventer inspections,
water meter reading and meter replacement, as well as the continued installation of
new radio meter-reading devices. The emphasis on water storage was continued in
2016, with the replacement of the circulation pump at Burkes Tank. An engineering
study and development of upgrades to the Tedesco Pump Station pumps and
emergency equipment was completed. A proposal for the removal of Village Tank
was submitted and approved by Massachusetts Department of Environmental
Protection. Leak detection was performed on every water main in town by Liston
Utility Services and necessary repairs completed. The Commission would like to
congratulate Peter Dorney on his promotion to Working Foreman, Tim Cox on his
promotion to Mechanic Pipefitter II and Eric Hildonen for his promotion to Water
Technician following his transfer from the Sewer Department. The Commission
also welcomes Erik Fields as a Special Laborer I.




                                        188
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


The Sewer Department continued with its annual maintenance and inspection
program that included upgrades and repairs to its 28 sewer pumping stations. The
crew still noted a dramatic increase in clogged pumps due to non-flushable
materials entering the sewer pump stations. Other activities performed by the
department were line cleaning, root treatment and an on-going inspection program
of the over 100 miles of sewer mains and over 3,000 manholes. National Water
Main Cleaning Co. completed a removal of infiltration and inflow project by lining
over 6800 feet of sewer mains (Contract 165) in the Clifton Sewer District. Carlton
Electric Company completed The Naugus Station’s electrical system upgrade
(Contract 166) including the addition of SCADA (remote monitoring and control)
installation. The Sewer Department ordered a F350 Utility Truck for an anticipated
delivery during February 2017. The Commission would like to congratulate Brian
Conrad on his Promotion to Station Mechanic Pipefitter II and welcome both Ryan
Camarda (transferred from Water Department) and Nick Zaccagnini as Special
Laborer I to the Sewer Department.

The Storm Drain Department maintained over 2,000 catch basins throughout town.
Department projects were focused on replacing corroded corrugated metal pipe and
the rebuilding of 43 catch basins and manholes. The cleaning of all catch basins
was done during the month of November. The Department’s contract with P. F.
Gallo and Sons Construction for Equipment Rental was extended into the third year.

Phase II of the Pleasant Street Drainage Project was awarded a Hazard Mitigation
Grant offered by Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency (MEMA),
Department of Conservation and Recreation (DCR) and the Federal Emergency
Management Agency on October 30, 2015. Phase II work, lining of the drain
system on the Sewall Street interceptor (Contract 168) was awarded to National
Water Main Cleaning Company work was started.

Our office staff has once again been active, processing over 30,000 bills while
collecting over $10,000,000 in revenue, assisting with 369 real estate transactions
and addressing customer inquiries. The on-line payment program continues to be a
convenient bill payment option; customers can register for on-line payment at
www.marblehead.org.

Since 2004 the Water and Sewer Commission has contributed annually to the
Town’s general overhead expenses. This financial contribution offsets the town
services (not including health insurance) provided to the Commission. FY18
assessment was $91,789 for the Water Department, an increase of $15,836 from




                                       189
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


FY17 and the FY18 assessment for the Sewer Department was $88,203, an increase
of $8,414 from FY17.

We would like to thank all of our staff for their dedication and accomplishments
during the year. Without their help, none of these accomplishments would have
been possible. At the time of this writing, the Commission mourns the passing of
our Working Forman, Peter Dorney. Pete was considered a dear friend by all and
an exemplary employee.

Respectfully submitted,

Amy McHugh
Superintendent


Marblehead Water and Sewer Commission
F. Carlton Siegel, P.E. (Chairman)
John P. Doane (Vice Chairman)
Mark Fulton.
Bradford N. Freeman
John Stanchfield
Telephone (781) 631-0102
Fax (781) 631-2670

Amy McHugh, Superintendent              Gregory Burt, Assistant Superintendent

Office Staff:                              Drain Department Employees:
Paul E. Jalbert, Office Manager            William Larios, Working Foreman
Helen Critch, Billing Technician           James DeCoste, Special Labor I
Lynne de Grandpre’, Special Clerk

Water Department Employees:                Sewer Department Employees:
Peter Dorney, Working Foreman              James Johnson, Working Foreman
Eric Hildonen, Water Technician            Jeff Maskell, Mechanic
Michael Marsters, Mechanic Pipefitter      Brian Conrad, Mechanic Pipefitter II
Corey Smith, Mechanic Pipefitter           Jonathan Morley, Mechanic Pipe. II
Tim Cox, Mechanic Pipefitter II            Michael Atkins, Mechanic Pipefitter I
David Cameron, Heavy Equip. Operator       Steven Hull, Special Laborer I
Nathaniel Kobialka, Special Laborer I      Ryan Camarda, Special Laborer I
Erik Fields, Special Laborer I             Nicolas Zaccagnini, Special Laborer I




                                     190
               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                 WATER DEPARTMENT REPORT

1. Water Breaks                                        12
2. Hydrants Replaced                                   06
3. Hydrants Repaired                                   82
4. Hydrants Painted                                    50
5. New Main Line Valves Installed                      2
6. Cross Connection Surveys                            24
7. Backflow Preventer Device Tests                     285
8. Trouble Calls                                       52
9. New Water Service and Renewals                      13
10. Inside Valves Replaced                             37
11. Water Services Repaired                            25
12. Replaced Gate Boxes                                20
13. Frozen Meters                                      36
14. Radio Reader Installations                         215
15. Meter upgrades                                     267
16. New Water Mains or Extensions                      650 ft
17. Main Gate valve Exercised                          25
18. Dig Safe mark outs                                 1665


                  SEWER DEPARTMENT REPORT
1. Sewer Lines Cleaned                86,835/ 173,670 ft/gals
2. Root Treatment                         500 / 600 ft/gals
3. Grease Control                     1,500/    2,000 ft/gals
4. Wet Wells Cleaned /H2O used           7/    27,750 # /gals
5. Lines Televised – Sewer                            15,555 ft
6. Service Repaired – Permits                         26
7. New Services – Permits                             10
8. Manholes Repaired                                  38
9. 8” sewer main lined                                6,821 ft
10. Pumping Stations Maintained                       28
    Repairs made included but were not limited to overhaul/replacement of
    sump pumps, motor drive couplings, seals, compressors, air lines,
    generators, computer component controls, doorway access and hatch cover
    repairs along with grounds-keeping and fence repair and snow removal.
    Clogged pumps were pulled multiple times at Seaview Road, Green Street
    and Edgemere Road to remove medical waste, rags, wipes, dental floss and
    towels.




                                 191
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


11. Vehicles/ Major Equipment Maintained
    A VACCON hydro excavation truck was purchased and received in
    August 2016
    General preventative maintenance work was performed on all vehicles,
    heavy equipment and portable pumps
12. Generators                                        14
    Received minor and major maintenance

13. Dig Safe Mark Outs                                   1371


                  DRAIN DEPARTMENT REPORT

1.   Catch Basins Cleaned                                1779
2.   Catch Basin repair                                  43
3.   Drain Lines Cleaned                                 1945 ft
4.   Drain line replaced                                 847 ft
5.   Drain pipe lined                                    190 ft
6.   Manhole- new                                        1
7.   Inspected and maintained all town open ditches and outfalls




                                  192
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


         REPORT OF THE SOUTH ESSEX SEWERAGE DISTRICT

The South Essex Sewerage District (“the District”) treatment facility performed
well throughout 2016. As in past years, the District has continued to refine its
operations in order to assure the best level of service at the lowest possible cost to
its member communities and other entities. We recognize the employees of the
District and commend them for a very productive and successful year. The Board
would like to welcome and congratulate Michael R. Parsons, P.E. on his
appointment by Governor Baker as Chairman of the South Essex Sewerage Board.

The District has two new transmission lines in service which travel from
Marblehead to the treatment plant in Salem and serve the Town of Marblehead
exclusively. The Marblehead Pipeline Project received the 2016 American Public
Works Association National Public Works Project of the Year in the
Environmental Category for the $5 million to $25 million project size. The
nomination was supported by the New England Chapter of the American Public
Works Association. A short informational video on the award winning project can
be seen via a link on the Marblehead Sewer Department Web site. The District was
successful in securing a $10.6 million Sewer Revolving Fund Loan for the project
through the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection. Marblehead
ratepayers will repay this low interest loan over a ten-year period.

During 2016 the District received a Peak Performance Award from the National
Association of Clean Water Agencies for recognition of consistent permit
compliance during calendar year 2015.

The Town of Marblehead and the District are committed to protecting the
environment and providing outstanding service to the residents of Marblehead.

We would be pleased to answer any questions concerning the Town’s wastewater
collection system or the related District facilities. The Town is proud to be a
member community of the South Essex Sewerage District and looks forward to the
continued operation of this clean, safe and efficient facility.

Respectfully submitted,


Amy McHugh
(SESD Representative)




                                        193
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                          South Essex Sewerage District
                      EXPENSES & REVENUES REPORT
                           TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD
                                 Fiscal Year 2016
               Report Prepared by Karen A. Herrick, District Treasurer

REVENUE
                     Method of           Percent      Marblehead           SESD
 Description      Apportionment          Of Total      Amount               Total
Assessment       FY16 Budgeted              8.68%      $ 2,216,315       $25,535,009
Revenue          Apportionment
Member           Actual                       0.00%               0      (1,500,000)
Refunds Paid
Chemical         District Apportions          0.00%               0               0
Reimburse-
ments
Sewer Rate       Fixed Amount                 6.45%         (1,153)         (17,881)
Relief           Budgeted for
                 Marblehead
                 Utilization
Septage          District Apportions          7.80%          14,292         183,330
Revenue
MWPAT        Based on Cost                    7.18%         245,568       3,420,108
Loan         Apportionment
Subsidies    Agreements
Interest     Actual & District                6.04%           4,625          76,526
Income,      Apportions Based
Investment   on Average Monthly
Income       UFB Balance
Energy       Actual                           7.27%             928          12,761
Savings
Revenue
Misc Revenue Actual                           7.75%           1,085          13,996
Other Income
Special      District Apportions            21.61%                0           5,231
Assessment
TOTAL REVENUES                                8.95%      $2,481,661      $27,729,080




                                        194
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


EXPENSES

                   Method of          Percent      Marblehead    SESD
Description     Apportionment         Of Total      Amount       Total
   2000       Based on Percentage        0.00%               0    122,421
              of Flow
   3000       Based on Percentage          0.00%            0     283,859
              of Flow
   4000       Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      23,209
              of Flow
   5000       Based on Percentage          0.00%            0     326,424
              of Flow
   6000       Based on Percentage          7.40%        31,277    422,707
              of Flow
   7000       Based on Percentage          7.75%       310,786   4,009,068
              of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
              Flow and Solids
   7100       Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      15,826
              of Flow
   7200       Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      12,889
              of Flow
   7300       Based on Percentage     100.00%            5,607      5,607
              of Flow
   7400       Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      25,688
              of Flow
   7500       Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      14,169
              of Flow
   7600       Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      25,404
              of Flow
   8010       Based on Percentage          7.75%       147,964   1,908,695
              of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
              Flow and Solids
   8020       Based on Percentage          7.19%       163,742   2,278,916
              of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
              Flow and Solids
   8030       Based on Percentage          7.40%        35,660    481,944
              of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
              Flow




                                     195
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                     Method of         Percent      Marblehead     SESD
 Description      Apportionment        Of Total      Amount        Total
   8040         Based on Percentage       8.61%         146,406   1,700,736
                of BOD
    8060        Based on Weighted           7.79%       312,243   4,008,698
                Percentage of
                BOD/TSS
    9000        Based on Percentage    100.00%          129,724    129,724
                of Flow
Special         Actual                      0.00%            0           0
Assessment

Principal –     Based on Cost               6.57%       350,776   5,341,537
Long Term       Apportionment
                Agreements
Interest –      Based on Cost               5.69%        47,823    839,928
Long Term       Apportionment
                Agreements
MWPAT           Based on Cost               7.18%       245,568   3,420,108
Loan            Apportionment
Subsidies       Agreements
MWPAT           Based on Cost               6.87%         1,564     22,748
Administra-     Apportionment
tive Fees       Agreements
Interest –      Based on Cost               0.00%            0           0
Short Term      Apportionment
                Agreements
Debt Expense    Based on Cost               0.00%            0           0
– Origination   Apportionment
Fees            Agreements
Lieu of Taxes   Based on Cost               9.16%        45,803    500,000
                Apportionment
                Agreements
Intergovern-    Based on Cost               0.00%            0           0
mental Fines    Apportionment
                Agreements
Stabilization   Based on Percentage         0.00%            0           0
                of 3 Yr. Avg. of
                Flow and Solids




                                      196
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                   Method of     Percent      Marblehead      SESD
 Description    Apportionment    Of Total      Amount         Total
Transfer to    Actual             20.92%          357,660    1,710,000
CPF’s
Misc.          Actual                 0.00%            0             0
Expense
TOTAL                                 9.24%    $2,553,507   $27,630,308
EXPENSES


EXCESS (DEFICIENCY) OF REVENUES OVER                            149,057
EXPENSES FOR MARBLEHEAD




                                197
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                     ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS

The Zoning Board of Appeals met in regular once-monthly sessions in 2016 from
January to December, excluding November. The Board conducted two specially
scheduled sessions--one in April and one in May. The Board also conducted four
specially scheduled meetings regarding the application of 263-269 Pleasant Street
LLC. In total, the Board conducted 86 advertised hearings, granting 64 applications,
allowing 8 to withdraw, denying 3, and continuing 1 into 2017. The Board also
conducted 3 non-advertised administrative hearings for minor modifications to
previously granted special permits.

At the close of 2016, Board members were David Tubridy, Alan Lipkind, William
Barlow, Leon Drachman, and William Moriarty. The alternates were Christopher
Casey, Bruce Krasker and James Rudolph.

Special thanks to Jennifer Titus, the Board’s secretary, for her cheerful assistance.

Respectfully submitted,
William R. Moriarty
Chair




                                         198
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



                         SCHOOL DEPARTMENT

                   MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE
                Meredith Tedford    Term Expires May 2019
                Susie Pratt         Term Expires May 2017
                Kate Lipsitz        Term Expires May 2018
                David Harris, Jr.   Term Expires May 2019
                Jennifer Schaeffner Term Expires May 2017

                                 ORGANIZATION
                           Chairperson     Meredith Tedford
                          Vice-Chairperson Susie Pratt
                          Secretary        Kate Lipsitz

                               REGULAR MEETINGS
The regular meetings of the School Committee are held in the High School Library
bi-monthly at 7:00 p.m. except during the months of July and August. At times,
meetings may be held in one of our schools which would be televised at a different
time.
                    MARBLEHEAD SCHOOLS ON THE WEB
Additional information about all Marblehead Public Schools programs can be found
on the internet site at: http://www.marbleheadschools.org

                         ADMISSIONS REQUIREMENTS
Entrance Age: Any child who will be six years of age on or before August 31 of that
school year may be admitted to first grade. The minimum age for entering
kindergarten shall be five years on or before August 31 of that school year.

Children entering school for the first time are required to present a birth certificate,
a physical exam (including vision screening for distance visual acuity and
stereopsis) completed within 12 months prior to the date of school entry, and
documentation of immunizations. All children must be immunized against polio;
diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus (DPT); measles, mumps and rubella (MMR); Hepatitis
B; and Varicella vaccine or M.D. documentation of disease (chicken pox).
Exemptions from immunizations are allowed under Commonwealth of
Massachusetts Law for either religious or medical reasons, both of which require
documentation.




                                         199
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


          NO SCHOOL/DELAYED SCHOOL ANNOUNCEMENTS
No school or delayed start announcements will be broadcast on WBZ TV Channel
4, WCVB TV Channel 5, WHDH TV Channel 7, WFXT TV Channel 25 as well as
on the Marblehead Public Schools website at http://www.marbleheadschools.org. A
message via email and phone will also be sent out through our SchoolMessenger
system. Telephone calls should not be made to the Police or Fire Departments.

Since widely varying conditions in the various parts of Marblehead may make it
difficult to reach decisions about inclement weather conditions, parents are
requested to exercise their discretion in regard to their own children's attendance.

                           2016-17 SCHOOL HOURS
                    High School         7:55 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
                   Middle School        8:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
                   Village School       8:00 a.m. to 2:15 p.m.
                   Glover, Gerry, Bell  8:15 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
                   Coffin               8:05 a.m. to 2:20 p.m.

                         SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS
The School Department annual objectives and strategic plan seeks to reflect the
priorities identified in the district’s defined mission, vision and goals, with the
assumption of concurrently providing sufficient resources to ensure compliance of
all federal, state and locally mandated educational programs and requirements.

As the foundation of all district wide planning and goal setting spanning the full
operations of the department, were the input, creation and adoption of the Mission
Statement and Vision Statement, culminating in the release of the Strategic Plan
Brochure. Having these solidified blueprints in place enabled the more detailed
work in specific operational areas to occur with a common guide driving the output.

Marblehead Public Schools Mission Statement
Our Mission is to foster in our students a passion for learning, and to provide a safe
nurturing environment in which they can develop the values, knowledge and skills
needed to achieve full potential in their personal, social and work lives, and to
become contributing members of society.

Marblehead Public Schools Vision Statement
A model school district, exemplary in its student engagement and academic
excellence, where all students meet their highest potential with the support of
outstanding instructional leadership and in partnership with the community.




                                        200
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Aligning with this mission and vision, our primary budgetary goal is to provide
students with the highest quality administrative and instructional staff, curriculum
and assessment tools, and an environment conducive to the potential of greatest
student achievement. Long and short term strategic planning, and the budget
process, drives the prioritization of these goals with student outcomes always at the
forefront of planning.

As we come to the close of school and fiscal 2016, we reflect on some of the
accomplishments, traction, and long term planning and strategies we have worked
toward over the course of this school year. We have been buoyed by the positive
relationships and trust built with other Town Departments as we continue to join
efforts in long term facilities planning, grounds improvement and upkeep, and
School safety and security measures.

Curriculum and Assessment
School year 2015-2016 saw successful implementation of a system of curriculum
renewal that supports increased academic achievement and social-emotional learning
through a coordinated, aligned and consistently delivered curriculum based on
challenging standards and high expectations. We continue ongoing math faculty
professional development and student engagement, spearheaded by our math
curriculum alignment, standards, and mapping work and assisted by a full adoption
of K-12 math programming, materials and textbook adoption.
Additional curriculum work in the core content areas of English Language Arts, and
this year’s Science/Technology and Engineering frameworks alignment work are
directed by the Marblehead Public Schools multi-year curriculum review and
revision plan. Ongoing efforts will include continued textbook and materials
inventory and renewal cycle aligning with curriculum renewal and state frameworks.
In assessment work, the district continues to analyze multiple assessment data
sources to support continuous student improvement and close identified achievement
gaps. Ongoing targeted assistance and intervention to support student achievement
and success with core content tutorials, reviews and support continue at the building
level.   Accountability levels, under the state’s accountability system show
Marblehead with five school buildings at a Level 1 – the state’s highest ranking.
Bell School, in particular, has been commended at the state level for ‘high progress’
in accountability and student achievement.

Student social and emotional wellness, as well as community engagement round out
our initiates with buildings to educate the whole child with students participating in
positive behavior programming, bullying prevention curriculum, team-building,
social engagement enrichment, and opportunities for community partnerships and




                                        201
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


service. We continue with our Positive Behavioral Intervention and Supports (PBIS)
initiative across the district.

Budget
The fiscal 17 budget, and the start of fiscal 18 budget process, though not without
funding pressures, identified challenges for the school budget, including long term
salary line deficits, which were collaboratively addressed with Town Boards and
Departments during the fiscal 17 budget process. The School Department looks for
ongoing efficiencies and best practices to continue to budget and account for all
funding in a transparent and fiscally responsible manner while providing students
with the highest opportunity for achievement.

In fiscal 17, the school again was hit with a large scale grant cut on the heels of the
State Kindergarten grant elimination. Federal grant, Title I, a funding source
stemming from the elementary and secondary education act of 1965 aimed at
assisting public school districts in closing the achievement gap of low income and
disadvantaged students. Grant award is calculated on the ‘basic grant formula’ or
percentage low income/poverty students in district based on Federal census date
projections. The fiscal 17 Title I grant to Marblehead Public Schools was cut by
46% or $115,448. Cutting staff and services associated with this grant has been
ongoing during the current budget year but fiscal 18 talks must address and explore
funding sources providing continuing resources targeting these students.

Long term strategies toward budget balance and sustainability include targeted
review of revenue sources, vendor and services contract review, utility efficiencies
at the building level and appropriate staffing levels and contractual increase
projections. Annual review of fee based tuition and rate structures continue as a
part of a systematic and paced review of revenue sources in an attempt to balance
revenues to specific and appropriate programmatic expenses. This review is a part
of the district’s strategic long term budget planning and sustainability efforts. FY17
also continued to show savings across substitute costs and unemployment insurance
costs. This has come as a concerted effort through greater controls, communication
and internal education. Recent consolidation of copier/printer contracts and a
pending change and consolidation of telephone contracts add to the budget
efficiencies review.

Fiscal 18 Budget
Looking forward to school year 2017-18, the FY18 budget discussions will
encompass three major themes and success indicators. In efforts to manage budget
sustainability, we will work collaboratively with Town finance Boards and




                                         202
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


departments to identify solutions of budget efficiency as well as utilize capital
funding associated with Town capital funding and reserves to their maximum
potential. Additionally, we continue to review revenue sources and grant and
revolving funding and appropriately and responsibly utilize these funds against
relevant and appropriate expenses.

Curriculum remains at the forefront of academic and instructional rigor and
continued funding toward curriculum alignment, professional development and
associated text and material renewal will be identified.

Looking toward fiscal 18, technology is at the forefront of a needs based budget.
Commencing at the High School level, a technology and student device advisory
including school administrators, staff, community members and students will
investigate needs and potential implementation of one to one student devices.
Infrastructure to support these increasing student and staff technology needs will
continue to be improved and addressed as funding allows.

Facilities and Maintenance Operations
A new HVAC Software Control system was installed in the High School replacing
an outdated and malfunctioning system. The old system was recommended for
replacement as part of the results of an audit of the High School HVAC system in
2015. Work on the remaining items from the audit will continue into next fiscal
year including a full system balance.

Additional work continues on HVAC and temperature control issues at the
Veterans, Village and Bell Schools. Veterans’ hot water tanks are beyond their
lifespan, and plans are in place for the necessary equipment and labor to replace
them in the summer of 2017.

A revision of the School Capital Facilities Plan is underway. A review of current
building condition, priority of maintenance work, and planning for long term
projects will be included in the revised plan. Prioritization and the most efficient
use of Town Capital funding will be key components.

At the forefront of school facilities is the Gerry School Feasibility Study. With the
enrollment data submitted to the Massachusetts School Building Authority, the
Gerry School Building Committee now moves toward selection of the Owner’s
Project Manager and Design Architect for the feasibility study.




                                        203
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Technology
With the resource of a district wide technology integrated specialist, technology
advances and initiatives continue to roll out at all buildings. The third grade
curriculum at the elementary schools now included a learn to type program as the
State rolls out mandated online assessment testing.

WiFi and infrastructure continue to be strengthened with school buildings better
equipped to handle additional staff and student usage of many devices at the same
time. These structural improvements will help support the potential rollout of
building level student one to one device models. The High School has formed an
advisory inclusive of school administrators, staff, community members and
students, which will investigate needs and potential implementation of one to one
student devices.

Long term outlook includes the State rollout of additional grade level mandated
online assessment culminating in grades 3-12 ultimately taking State assessment
tests entirely online by 2019. The district will need to address the availability of
building wide student devices, strengthened infrastructure and technology staffing
support to comply with these changes in assessment administration at the State
level.

Communication
School administration continues with efforts in community outreach and
communication. School year 2015-16 and the first semester of school year 2016-17
included community wide Superintendent forums with updates of key school
initiatives and question and answer sessions with the School Central Administration
Executive team. Additionally, the Central Administration team is attending school
building based PTO/PCO meetings as well as staff meetings and School Advisory
Councils by invitation and as appropriate relevant to topic.

As an additional communication tool aimed toward the goal of family and
community transparency was the rollout of the iDashboard data metrics dashboard
on the School Department website. The iDashboard presents relevant and current
information on School financials, enrollment, staffing demographics and
performance. The iDashboard will continue to be updated and added to with
additional assessment and student performance data to come.

Lastly, new for school year 2015-2016, and continuing into this current school year,
all agenda, materials and reports presented to School Committee from School
Administration in open session are made available to the community on the school




                                       204
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


website the day following the meeting. The provision of these materials, reports
and metrics is meant to facilitate a transparent communication and understanding of
topics discussed during the meetings.

Enrollment
As we enter the fiscal 18 budget season, short term student enrollment indicators,
from third-party independent sources, predict relatively level or slight down turning
enrollment with continued pockets/bubbles of larger grade levels which have
remained constant as they have progressed through the grade levels.

While enrollment as whole student body Pre-K through 12 is down 49 students at
the time of this report, the Kindergarten class for school year 2016-17 is up 39
students over the last school year, 2015-16. Additionally, 11 new-to-district
students enrolled mid-year from the start of school in September. These changing
metrics challenge budget projections as we seek a balance of appropriate class sizes
as well as the provision of appropriate resources to all students. We take pride in
our small class sizes and the ability to teach to all students within our classrooms.

It is important to note that while longer term budget discussion includes analyzing
metrics assumptive of enrollment downturn, current student populations, and
increasing educational mandates challenge our budget to provide services for
increasing student populations in all our sub-groups. With an eye to potentially
decreasing long term student enrollment numbers, mandated and appropriate
programming targeted to these unique populations must continue to be budgeted
appropriately.

Conclusion
There is much to be proud of within the Marblehead Public Schools. As we
celebrate student achievements, high assessment scores and rankings, and an
advanced percentage rate of students moving on to higher education, we
concurrently must look to long term to continue to challenge ourselves toward
academic challenge and improvement, and student-based initiatives and advances.
Our teachers continue to be the drivers of our top tiered district. They participate in
numerous professional development opportunities and are committed to teaching to
the whole child. As technology and educational advancement and mandates move
quickly, so to do the unique needs of an evolving student body and demographic.
Balancing the needs of the district to maintain high performing and rigorous
academic and extracurricular student experiences, with long term operational
planning and sustainability includes responsible fiscal management, as well as
community engagement and communication. We are optimistic as we look to the




                                         205
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


growth initiatives of school year 2017-2018, and are proud of the traction and
recent successes that we have experienced over the past school year.


Respectfully Submitted,
Maryann Perry
Superintendent of Schools


                    MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE
The Marblehead School Committee’s three primary responsibilities are the hiring
and supervision of the Superintendent, the approval and oversight of the
Marblehead Public School district’s budget, and the creation and adherence to
school policy. Working closely with Superintendent Maryann Perry, the School
Committee strives to balance the needs of our students, schools, and programs with
the overall direction and priorities of the district, all within the Town’s financial
means.

Our report to the Town confirms the continuation of the School Committee’s
support for the Strategic Plan document, now in its third year. With an articulated
direction for the district, this framework informs our decision making and reminds
us of our shared commitment to the education of our students. Our School
Committee vision “to be a model school district, exemplary in its student
engagement and academic excellence, in which all students reach their highest
potential with the support of outstanding instructional leaders, and in partnership
with the community,” informs our governance.

The School Committee is dedicated to promoting district growth and
accomplishment through ongoing student learning, district improvement and
community engagement outlined by Superintendent Perry’s yearly goals. We will
continue to set high expectations for achievement and expect results, and we will
use our fiscal resources to balance the immediate needs of all of our students with
the long-term interests of the community at large.

Maryann Perry has built a competent and collaborative Administrative Team,
bolstered by the professionalism and dedication of our principals, teachers and staff.
As the Superintendent enters her second term, the leadership continuity has
provided much-needed stability and allowed us to gain traction on many initiatives,
build on past success, and monitor long term planning. Qualified and well-received
principal hires at Marblehead High School and Village School, along with the




                                        206
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


addition of a Human Resources Director have rounded out a committed, engaged
leadership team within our buildings and at the administrative level.

We have allocated our resources to support teaching and learning throughout our
district. All but one of our schools continues to receive a “Level 1” state rating, the
highest performance accountability level based on student growth and achievement.
Bell School has been commended by the State for its success this past year in
narrowing the achievement gap amongst all students. Village School will be on
track to reach Level 1 with a targeted focus for FY18 that addresses student needs
more specifically, using the success at Bell as a blueprint.

The School Committee is committed to continuously analyzing and supporting the
changing needs of our schools and student population. While both balancing a
budget and planning for long term sustainability we continue to provide level
services and meet our contractual obligations. Given the climate of uncertainty with
State and Federal aid, and additional cuts likely on the horizon, we will continue to
coordinate with the Town, but also capitalize on efficiencies through internal
monitoring, reporting, oversight and controls.

Sustaining initiatives through FY18 and beyond will set our students up for
continued success:
       ವ Continued assessment and implementation of a coherent, constant, and
         challenging curriculum that fosters academic achievement and student
         learning while aligning with State standards and compliances, specifically
         in Math, English Language Arts (ELA), and the new Science/Technology
         and Engineering frameworks
       ವ Implementation of social-emotional learning through our PBIS (Positive
         Behavioral Intervention and Supports) programming, along with on-going
         bullying prevention and emotional wellness curricula
       ವ Ongoing faculty development that is directly tied to classroom initiatives,
         and allows for professional practice growth
       ವ Maintenance and improvement of school facilities through careful
         monitoring and planning, including the continuation of the Gerry
         Feasibility Study to determine recommendations for our Coffin/Gerry
         district, along with the Bell School district
       ವ Exploring, expanding and funding technology needs in preparation not
         only for mandated online state testing (MCAS 2.0) by 2019, but also
         device adoption within the buildings in a coordinated, supported and
         integrated effort




                                         207
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



       ವ
On behalf of our students, we are thankful for taxpayer support of our public
schools. Additionally, your financial generosity, and the donation of your time
through participation in and support of adjunct school-based and community-wide
organizations is tremendously appreciated, as it serves to supplement and enrich our
programming outside of our operating budget.

Finally, the School Committee will continue to display good governance of our
schools through sound district policies. We are close to completion of a full review
of our entire policy manual with guidance from MASC (Massachusetts Association
of School Committees). This includes adoption of mandatory policy changes based
on Massachusetts General Law, along with evaluation of policies unique to
Marblehead to ensure that they are relevant. The adoption of revised Operating
Protocols based on best practices of other districts is designed to foster a positive,
respectful working relationship between School Committee members and the
Administrative Team.

The School Committee will continue to strive to engage the community in our
schools by both listening to feedback and educating the community on the needs of
our students. The quality of teaching and learning we provide has a direct impact
on the creation of productive citizens.

Respectfully Submitted,
Meredith Tedford, School Committee Chairman

              MARBLEHEAD PUBLIC SCHOOLS PERSONNEL
                       ADMINISTRATION

Name                       Position                                      Telephone
Maryann Perry              Superintendent of Schools                     639-3140
Bradford Smith             Asst. Superintendent of Curriculum,
                           Instruction & Assessment                      639-3140
Carmen Darisse             Administrative Assistant to the
                           Superintendent & HR Director                  639-3140
Monica Visco               Director of Human Resources                   639-3140
Amanda Maniaci             Director of Business & Finance                639-3140
Mary Valle                 Bookkeeper                                    639-3140
Kathy Gallagher            Accounts Payable Secretary                    639-3140
Diane Crean                Administrative Asst. for Payroll              639-3140
Richard Kelleher           Food Services Director                        639-3163




                                        208
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Ken Lord              Exec. Dir. Of Technology &
                      Operations                                   639-3140
Erin O’Regan          Adm. Asst. to Dir. Of Tech & Asst. Super     639-3140
Kathy Hennessey       Technology Director                          639-3120
Richard Matthews      Director of Facilities                       639-3120
Ani Shapazian         Instructional Technology Specialist          639-3140
Katie Farrell         Database Specialist                          639-3140
Tracey Corbett        Central Registrar                            639-3140
Barbara Kiernan       Teachers Retirement Clerk                    639-3140
Robert Bellucci       Director of Student Services and Program     639-3140
                      Accountability
Martha Krol           Student Services Liaison                     639-3140
Kara Heintz           Student Services Administrative Asst.        639-3140
Margarita Perlin      Lead Nurse                                   639-3174
Nora Murphy           Special Education Chairperson                639-3110
Nicole Grazado        Special Education Chairperson                639-3120
Janine Glabicky       Special Education Chairperson                639-3159
Dawn McGrath          Special Education Chairperson                639-3150
Susan Gibbons         Pre-School Coord. & Spec Ed Chair            639-3190
Dan Bauer             High School Principal                        639-3100
Lynsey Page           HS Asst. Principal                           639-3100
Michele Carlson       HS Asst. Principal                           639-3100
Margot Ivers          Principal’s Secretary                        639-3100
Emily Lucas           HS Front Office Secretary                    639-3100
Amy Ciccone           Registrar/Student Activities                 639-3100
Matthew Fox           Veterans Middle School Principal             639-3120
Philip McManus        Veterans School Asst. Principal              639-3120
Donna Carey           Principal’s Secretary                        639-3120
Amanda Murphy         Village School Principal-Interim             639-3159
Stephen Gallo         Village School Interim Assistant Principal   639-3159
Maryann McKie         Principal’s Secretary                        639-3159
Donna Zaeske          Bell School Principal                        639-3170
Gayle Louisos         Principal’s Secretary                        639-3170
Jennifer Elliott      Lower Bell Secretary                         639-3172
Sean Satterfield      Coffin/Gerry Schools’ Principal              639-3180
Linda Mills           Principal’s Secretary                        639-3180
Joanne LeBlanc        Gerry School Secretary                       639-3185
Brian Ota             Glover School Principal                      639-3190
Barbara Hawlena       Principal’s Secretary                        639-3190
Linda Kuszmar         Glover Front Office Secretary                639-3190




                                   209
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Andrew O’Neill Athletic Director                 639-3100
Mark Tarmey      Asst. Athletic Director         639-3100
Francois Fils-Aime        METCO Director         639-3120

                         FACULTY AND STAFF 2016-2017
Name                              Position
Abber-Berman, Heidi               Para
Acciaioli, Cassandra              Chemistry
Adams, Diane                      Custodian
Adams, Kimberly                   Guidance Secretary
Addis, David                      Tutor
Agosti, Michael                   Tech Ed
Alford, James                     Permanent Sub
Alkonis, Michael                  Maintenance
Alvarez, Laura                    Spanish
Anderson, Martha                  Cafeteria/Bus Monitor
Anderson, Abigail                 Home Economics
Andrews, Lisa                     Kindergarten Para
Angelopolus, Adam                 Grade 6
Antonucci, Deborah                Teacher: Language Based 7
Arbo, John                        Lunch Para
Arnould, Carol                    Tutor
Asaro, Molly                      Para
Athanas, Jennifer                 Math
Babbitt, Diane                    Grade 1
Bach, Janet                       Spec Ed
Bachman, Lindsay                  Social Studies
Bailey, Marguerite                Cafeteria
Balboni, Robert                   Custodian
Barker, David                     Eng/SS
Baron, Emily                      Lunch Para
Barrett, Melissa                  Reading Tutor
Barry, Judith                     Cafeteria
Barthelmes, Jacqueline            Grade 1
Bedell, Leslie                    Grade 6
Beechwood, Justin                 Teacher: TIDES
Behl, Melissa                     ELL Teacher
Beitz, Christine                  Para
Belli, Natalie                    Grade 5
Berg, Robin                       Kindergarten




                                      210
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Bergeron, Leroy               Custodian
Bergeron, Kerry               Grade 2
Berggren, Susan               Secretary
Bernhardt, Terri              Psychologist
Betts, Alexandra              Speech Language
Bial, Lisa                    Reading Tutor
Bishop, Kathleen              Tutor
Blanchard, Gianna             Grade 2
Blanchette, Christina         Tutor
Blodgett, Amanda              Grade 6
Bobowski, Sandra              Para
Bornstein, Rosalie            Tutor
Bouchard, Jacqueline          Tutor
Bowden, Catherine             Kindergarten Para
Bowe, April                   Speech & Language Asst.
Bowen, Melissa                Grade 3
Bowen, Adam                   Grade 3
Bowen, Virginia               METCO Tutor
Bradbury, Jillian             Teacher: TLC
Brand, Rebecca                Reading Specialist
Branham, Rachel               Art
Brearley, Alexandra           Social Studies
Breed, Mary                   Wellness/PE
Brenner, Nicole               Teacher: Language Based
Broughton, Alison             Para
Broughton, Nicholas           Spec Ed
Bruett, Meghann               Grade 3
Buck, Leon                    Custodian
Buckley, Jennifer             Psychologist
Buono, Anna                   English
Buonopane, Susan              Teacher: Inclusion
Burke, Lindsay                Grade 5
Bushman, Molly                Tutor
Butters, Bryan                Social Studies
Caisse, Stephen               Custodian
Calabrese, Lauren             Para
Callaghan, Tawny              Science
Campbell, Peter               Custodian
Carey, Alison                 Tutor
Carlson, Charlotte            Clerical Para




                                211
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Carlucci, Coby              Social Studies
Carroll, Linda              Kindergarten Para
Carter, Annaka              Tutor
Carucci, Allison            Teacher: Resource Room
Case, Daye                  Lunch Para
Castoldi, Catherine         Teacher: Inclusion
Cecere, Michael             Wellness/PE
Cefalo, Carla               Wellness/PE
Chalek, Wendy               Reading Tutor
Chavez, Jennifer            World Language
Christensen, Henry          Fine Arts
Ciampa, Christina           Grade 6
Clark, Lora                 Grade 5
Clifford, Andreana          PACE
Clough, Linda               Para
Clough, Patrice             Tutor
Cohen, Carolyn              Para
Colby, Stephanie            Library Media Specialist
Colfer, Robert              Social Studies
Colson, Sandrine            Math/Science
Comeau, Ronald              Maintenance
Compton, Alison             Speech & Lang Path
Connolly, Milena            Tutor
Conrad, Alyssa              Para
Conroy, Elizabeth           Para
Cook, Bethany               Tutor
Cool, Susan                 Tutor
Coombs, Jaimee              Wellness/PE
Corcoran, Angela            COTA
Cowan, Judith               Tutor
Coyle, Alicia               Para
Coyle, Deborah              Tutor
Croke, Deborah              Tutor
Crowley, Brian              Social Studies
Cullen, Deborah             Nurse
Cummings, Cortney           Teacher: Inclusion
D'Amour, Eileen             Music
Dana, Gregory               Math
Darci, Maureen              Kindergarten
Dartley-Rocco, Maura        Wellness/PE




                              212
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Davidson, Gail              Cafeteria
Davies, Meredith            Tutor
Davis, Kimberly             Teacher: Academic Skills
Davis-Allan, Ann            Teacher: Inclusion
Dawes, Edmund               Tech Ed
Dean, Emily                 Director of ELL
Decker, Jessica             Behavior Specialist
DeGeorge, Valerie           Grade 5
Deiana, Dawna               Teacher: Inclusion
Delano, Judith              Lunch Para
DeMello, Joseph             Math
Denis, Margaret             Cafeteria
Deprez, Jennifer            Speech & Lang Path
Derosby, Evan               Para
Devlin, Kristyn             Cafeteria
Dewing, Diane               Cafeteria
Dewing, James               Custodian
Dewing, Jake                Custodian
Dexter, Lesley              Tutor
DiGiammarino, Jennifer      Tutor
Dillon, Robert              English
Dimier, Lisa                Spec Ed Secretary
DiPersio, Brianne           World Language
Dixey, Melissa              Tutor
Dixon, Lelia                Grade 3
Doane, Marilyn              Attendance Clerk
Doben, Maggie               Grade 2
Dodge, Elizabeth            Teacher: VOICE
Doherty, Alfred             Hall Monitor
Doherty, Alice              Lunch Para
Dolan, Alisha               English
Dombkowski, Christine       Tutor
Donahue, Steven             Spec Ed
Donaldson, Lindsay          Social Studies
Doughman, Cathy             Kindergarten Para
Douglass, James             Custodian
Drummond, Ellen             Grade 1
Duffin, Denise              Tutor
Duffy, Amy                  Grade 2
Dulac, Kate                 Guidance Counselor




                              213
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Dumais, Brenda               Para
Dunne, Timothy               Para
Dutch, Wayne                 Math
Dutton, Meghan               Inclusion Teacher
Eaton, Allison               Guidance Counselor
Elam, Elizabeth              PACE
Elmer, Kara                  Guidance Counselor
Elterich, Kristen            Psychologist
Ericsson, Thomas             Science
Erskine, Kimberly            Phys. Therapist
Faia, Beth                   Tutor
Fairbanks, Lee-Anne          Grade 1
Fallon, Lois                 Guidance Secretary
Fargo, Eric                  Wellness/PE
Fehrenbach, Katherine        Grade 4
Feins, Robin                 English
Fernandes, Heidi             Nurse
Ferris, Linda                Kindergarten Para
Ferris, Kathryn              Music
Fidler, Grace                Tutor
Finnegan, Jennifer           Spec Ed
Fitzgerald, Cheryl           Bookkeeper for Cafeteria
Fogarty, Elizabeth           Teacher: Language Based
Foley, Karin                 Para
Forcier, Ryan                Physics
Ford, Laurie                 Transitional Specialist
Fortis, Carmen               Bus Driver
Forward, Maura               Grade 4
Fox, Jeffrey                 Tutor
Francois, Mary               World Language
Frankel, Dara                Tutor
Fraser, Jennifer             COTA
Fraser, Holly                Music
Frawley, Patricia            Teacher: SAILS
Frein, Casey                 Grade 3
Frias, Julie                 Fine Arts
Friedrich, Jennifer          Science
Frigon, Katie                Music
Fu, Michael                  Math
Futcher, Edward              Math




                               214
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Galanxhi, Tatiana            Cafeteria
Garrett, Karen               Tutor
Garry, Benjamin              Spec Ed
Gaskell, Marian              Tutor
Gauthier, Allan              Guidance Counselor
Gay, Betsy                   Kindergarten
Gazda, Ann                   Phys. Therapist
Geary, Joan                  Science
Geelen, Laura                TIDES Teacher
Gerow, Penny                 Cafeteria
Giannelli, Briana            Tutor
Giannino, Jennifer           Grade 6
Giardi, Michael              Math
Gilbert, Rebecca             Teacher: Inclusion
Gillett, Whitney             Para
Glabicky, Michael            Para
Goddard, Elizabeth           Spec Ed
Goodwin, Lenore              VOICE Program Coordinator
Gora, Diane                  Grade 1
Grazado, Heather             Computer Support Spec.
Graziano, Angela             Grade 3
Greely, Elizabeth            Cafeteria
Greenwood, Justin            Language Based
Grenier, Kathleen            Nurse
Grohe, Kristen               Inclusion Teacher
Grose, Kathryn               Spanish
Gueritault, Violaine         French
Guider, F.                   Math
Gunter, Cassandra            METCO Clerical/Bus Monitr
Guthartz, Randy              Art
Guttadauro, Jae              World Language
Haley, Karen                 Reading Tutor
Haller, Michael              Lunch/Truck Driver
Halvorsen, Alice             Grade 6
Hamilton, Anne               Clerical Para
Hanratty, Liam               Para
Harris, Mark                 Custodian
Harris, Jillian              Tutor
Hart, Mary Ellen             Title I
Hartunian-Credit, Talyn      Kindergarten




                               215
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Haskell, William            Custodian
Hastings, Rebecca           Kindergarten Para
Hauptman, Molly             Fine Arts
Hayes, Lisa                 Spec Ed
Healy, Ryan                 Tutor
Hecht, Elizabeth            Kindergarten
Heenan, Brian               Science
Heller, Jonathan            Grade 6
Henry, Taylor               Spec Ed
Herchenhahn, Mary           Art
Herendeen, Cara             Grade 1
Hernandez, Gilberto         Custodian, Flex
Herrick, John               Science
Herrick, Cheryl             Spec Ed
Hertz, Amy                  Tutor
Higgins, Thomas             English
Hitscherich, Rebecca        Tutor
Hobbie-Welch, Lauren        Gr 6 Academic Skills
Hobson, Alexandra           Grade 4
Hodnett, Michael            Grade 3
Holbrook, Susan             Spec Ed
Homan, Kathryn              Grade 3
Honos, Christina            ELL Teacher
Hood, Hannah                Inclusion Teacher
Hosic, Kristel              Tutor
Huang, Allison              Math
Hughes, Anna                Tutor/Lunch Para
Huller White, Shirley       Fine Arts
Humphrey, Melissa           Social Studies
Hunt-Pomeroy, Marissa       Language Based
Iapicca, Samantha           Nurse
Ivers, Lianne               Para
James, Amy                  Spec Ed
James, Amie                 Wellness/PE
Janock, Heidi               Grade 2
Johns, Dawn                 Para
Johnson, Beth               Grade 2
Johnson, Carol              Social Worker
Johnston, Elisa             Teacher: Inclusion
Jones, Bethan               English




                              216
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Jones-Tentindo, Marylyn     Kindergarten Para
Kaeyer, Jill                Tutor
Kalafsky, Connor            Science
Kaltsas, Eleni              Cafeteria
Kane, Mary                  PACE
Kannally, Timothy           Grade 4
Karns, Brigitte             English
Keating, James              METCO Tutor/Astronomy
Keith, Shane                Custodian, Flex
Kelleher, Matthew           Custodian
Kelleher, Mary-Jo           Para
Kennedy, Jamie              Guidance Counselor
Killeen, Caron              Reading Tutor
King, Richard               Custodian-Head
Klipper, Samantha           Para
Knight, Eric                Physical Therapy Asst.
Kodiattu, Carolyn           Grade 2
Kolsky, Robert              Custodian
Konz, Peter                 Tutor
Kretowicz, Samantha         Para
Lamby, Juanita              Guidance Counselor
Land, Howard                Bus Driver
Landergan, Catherine        Fine Arts
Landry, Elizabeth           Teacher: ACCESS II
Landry, Holly               Tutor
Langton, Gretchen           Computer Support Spec.
Lauro, Bianca               Chemistry
Lavender, Michael           Wellness/PE
Lavoie, Scott               Asst. Head Custodian
Lawton, Peter               Custodian
Leavitt, Rachel             Grade 1
LeBlanc, Mary               Grade 4
LeBlanc, Michaela           Tutor
Legro, Phillip              Custodian
Lehman, Karen               Fine Arts
Lemieux, Robert             Custodian
Lemieux, Jody               Reading Tutor
Leonard, Jenette            Spec Ed
Levine, MaryAnne            Grade 1
Lockerbie, Amanda           Psychologist




                              217
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Long, Glenn                Custodian
Lovely, Laura              Science
Luise, Judy                Social Worker
Lutwak, Elizabeth          Library Media Specialist
Lydon, Maria               Kindergarten Para
Lyons, Judith              Para
Lyons, Emily               Spec Ed
Maag, Tracy                Permanent Sub
MacDonald, Alyssa          Math
Mace, Richard              Custodian
Mace, Jayne                Para
Mack, Gail                 Teacher: Inclusion
Madden, Annie              Grade 4
Magana, Elmer              World Language
Magnet, Nicole             Para
Maloney, Kathryn           Kindergarten Para
Maney, Martha              PreK Para
Marcorelle, Rachel         Para
Marino, Kathleen           Tutor
Martin, Maria              Para
Matuza, Sarah              Math
Mawhorter, Hannah          Tutor
McCabe Hicks, Sarah        Psychologist
McCarthy, Julie            Art
McCarthy, Laura            Grade 2
McCormick, Suzanne         Para
McDermott, Maura           Language Based
McDonald, Maureen          Para
McGrath, Danielle          Wellness/PE
Mcguinnes, Melissa         Grade 1
McGuinness, Lindsay        Kindergarten
McGurrin, Susan            Tutor
Mcintosh, John             Wellness/PE
McKeever, Charles          Custodian
McKinley, Kylynn           Health/Wellness
Mcmahon, Maura             Grade 3
McMahon, Deanna            Nurse
Mellor, Margaret           Tutor/Lunch Para
Menzler, Abida             Para
Meredith, Katelyn          Psychologist




                             218
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Merrill, Melissa             Reading Tutor
Messina, Amanda              Grade 4
Michaud, Tammi               Lunch Para
Michaud, Maria               Para
Miele, Caitlin               Fine Arts
Miles, Mary                  Grade 6
Miles, Karen                 Speech Language
Miller, Killeen              Grade 4
Miller, Loren                Math
Miller, Jennifer             Nurse
Miller, Joan                 Teacher: Inclusion
Millett, Michael             Network Specialist
Minigiello, Marybeth         Kindergarten Para
Mohan, Laurie                Grade 4
Mohler, Janet                Library Media Specialist
Moloney, Neil                English
Mostyn, Constance            Kindergarten
Mullarkey, Tracie            Para
Murphy, Lauren               Spec Ed
Murphy, Philip               Wellness/PE
Murray, Dawn                 Nurse
Nash, Laura                  English
Nesbitt, Tracy               Tutor
Nestor, Kimberly             Tutor
Neumann, Carol               Tutor
Newsome, Jeffrey             Guidance Counselor
Nicholl, Susan               Spec Ed Secretary
Nicholson, Dale              Tech Ed
Nigro, Lauren                Spec Ed
Nohelty, Tammy               Art
Norley, Ashley               Tutor
Obeke, Sophia                Lunch Para
O'Connor, Michelle           Reading Tutor
O'Flynn, Judith              Grade 1
O'Keefe, Jessica             Tutor
Opal, Anne                   Occ. Therapist
Pagano, Justin               Computer Support Spec.
Page, Carolan                Tutor
Palmer, Meredith             Lunch Para
Pasackow, Noah               Social Studies




                               219
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Pasquini, Monika             World Language
Payne, John                  Tech Ed
Perez, Emily                 Grade 2
Perez, Lynne                 World Language
Perkins, Ryan                Para
Perroni, Brenda              Kindergarten
Peterson, Casey              PreK
Picariello, Karen            Tutor
Pierce, Karen                Grade 3
Pillsbury, Susan             Speech Language
Pittore, Patricia            Grade 2
Pivnick, Ashley              Para
Poisson, Frances             Secretary
Polimeno, Kaleigh            Spec Ed
Poulos, Mackenzie            Behavior Specialist
Price, Dawn                  Lunch Para
Promise, Allison             PreK Para
Pruett, Elizabeth            Grade 6
Puopolo Smith, Rene          Inclusion Teacher
Queval, Pascale              Fine Arts
Quigley, Suzanne             Tutor
Quillen, Lisa                Grade 1
Quinn, Janet                 Reading Tutor
Racki, James                 Custodian
Raimo, Paulette              Tutor
Reardon, Meredith            Guidance Counselor
Reynolds, Katherine          Science
Richards, James              Custodian
Rieckelman, Dana             ELL Teacher
Rieder, Sarah                Math
Rijos, Ramon                 Custodian
Ritchie, Daniel              Social Studies
Rochford, Paige              Occ. Therapist
Rodgers, Kathryn             Biology
Roeser, Kathleen             Reading Tutor
Rombach, Jeannie             Tutor
Roncarati, Jenna             Biology
Rosenstein, Alexander        Psychologist
Ross, William                Custodian/Van Driver
Rossini, Katie               TIDES Teacher




                               220
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Rothenberg, Suzanne          Tutor
Rudloff, James               Teacher: TLC
Rudzinski, Elizabeth         Teacher: Academic Skills
Rumson, Janet                Grade 5
Russell, Robin               Tutor
Russett, Kristen             World Language
Ryan, Connor                 English
Rydzewski, Kenneth           Spec Ed
Schaffnit, James             English
Schauer, Rachel              Reading Tutor
Schuesler, Samantha          Hall Monitor
Scoglio, Andrew              Fine Arts
Scott, Robin                 Para
Scribner, David              Cafeteria
Seiden, Gloria               Cafeteria
Serino, Kristina             Math/Science
Shapiro, Mary                Grade 1
Shatford, Susan              Library Media Specialist
Shay, James                  Custodian
Shea, Barbara                Grade 6
Shepard, Rachael             Para
Sheppard, Aimee              Grade 2
Sheridan, Susan              Grade 3
Sherris, Laura               Secretary
Shevory, Sally               Grade 3
Sholds, Kristina             English
Shull, Willard               Social Studies
Simard, Christine            Cafeteria
Simone, Francesca            Music
Skalaban, Janice             Business
Skeffington, Ashley          English
Skerry, Julie                Tutor
Slattery, Margaret           Spec Ed Secretary
Slattery-Sumner, Marjorie    Cafeteria
Slavet, James                Clinical Psychologist
Sliney, Candice              World Language
Smith, Kathryn               Math
Smullin, Rachel              Math
Snyder, Brenda               Tutor
Soder, Lauren                Teacher: Inclusion




                               221
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Soghomonian, Allison        Library Media Specialist
Som, Sophan                 Tutor
Song, Kendra                Science
Spear, Susan                Tutor
Spillane, Carol             Kindergarten
Spinale, David              Cutodian/Van Driver
Stacey, Peter               Custodian
Stanojev, Beth              Nurse
Stanton, Jessica            Para
Steadman, Joanne            Wellness/PE
Steele, Kimberly            PreK/Elementary Behavior
Stienstra, Alexandra        Grade 5
Stockwell, Taryn            Grade 4
Stoddard, Joseph            Music
Stone, Ethan                Custodian
Stonecipher, Timothy        Guidance Counselor
Strangie, Louann            Spec Ed
Stronach, Tara              Teacher: TIDES
Sullivan, Jane              Grade 5
Sumner, Louis               Cafeteria
Surette, Annie              Tutor
Tangney, Matthew            Social Studies
Teague, Traci               Cafeteria
Teague, Leslie              Library Para
Tefera, Meseret             Lunch Para
Tejada, Lynne               Lunch Para
Tewksbury, Maeve            Speech Language
Thomas, Barbara             Kindergarten
Thomas, Sarah               Para
Thornton, S.Winifred        Teacher: Academic Skills
Tirelli, Robert             Music
Tobin, Kaleigh              Behavior Specialist
Todd, Caroline              English
Trainor, Stephanie          Grade 6
Traynor, Veronica           Para
Treff, Maria                Tutor
Trudeau, Dana               Grade 5
Tully, Frances              Grade 1
Van Wittenberghe, Denise    Psychologist
Vautour, Jennifer           Guidance Counselor




                              222
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Venezia, Stephen            Social Studies
Vied, Lisa                  Grade 5
Voiland, Meredith           Grade 4
Volpe, Stephen              Grade 5
Vona, Mark                  Math
Wachtel, Kyle               Wellness/PE
Wahtera, Philo              Grade 2
Waitkevich, Kathryn         Math
Wales, G. Herrick           Teacher: Supported Classr
Wales, Susan                Teacher: VITALS
Walsh, Krystal              Para
Walsh, Meghan               Spec Ed Literacy Coach
Ward, Amanda                ELL Teacher
Ward, Trevor                Para
Warren, Randi               Lunch Para
Webster, Leigh              Tutor
Weed, Dawn                  Para
Weiss, Laura                PreK
Welsh, Caitlin              Grade 4
West, Andrea                World Language
Wheeler, James              Tutor
Whipple, Nancy              Cafeteria
Whitaker, Jane              Custodian
Whitaker, Christina         Lunch Para
Whittier, Dawn              Kindergarten Para
Whyte, Catherine            ELL Teacher
Wilkens, John               Social Studies
Willard, Marilyn            Custodian
Willard, Lindsay            Grade 3
Winship, Scott              Band
Wolff-Variam, Cheryl        Reading Tutor
Wolfson, Fara               Teacher: Academic Skills
Wood, Enid                  Cafeteria
Worrick, Ann                Tutor
Xiarhos, Kristin            PreK
Yanow, Brooke               Kindergarten
Yomtov, Jamie               Speech Language
Younger, Joan               PreK Para
Zalanowski, David           Science
Zeiner, Kelly               Tutor




                              223
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Zimmer, Wendy              Speech Language
Zimmerman, Elizabeth       English
Zisson, Laura              Lunch Para
Zolot, Jill                Tutor




                             224
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                                     PARCC
Marblehead Public Schools participated in the PARTNERSHIP FOR
ASSESSMENT OF READINESS FOR COLLEGE AND CAREERS (PARCC)
Assessment in grades 3-8 during the 2015 and 2016 school year. These tests are
designed to assess performance on the state learning standards, in preparation for
college and career readiness. Based on the Massachusetts Curriculum Frameworks,
PARCC assesses performance in English Language Arts and Math. One of the key
differences is that student performance is reported according to five levels of
achievement: Did Not Yet Meet Expectations, Partially Met Expectations,
Approached Expectations, Met Expectations, and Exceeded Expectations.

                   PARCC TEST RESULTS 2015 and 2016
                    % of Students at each achievement level*

                                     Grade 3
                           English Lang. Arts/Literacy
                                    2015                      2016
          Level 4 & 5                73                        85
          Level 5                    18                        18
          Level 4                    55                        67
          Level 3                    14                        11
          Level 2                     7                         2
          Level 1                     6                         2
                                       Math
          Level 4 & 5                69                        78
          Level 5                    17                        23
          Level 4                    52                        55
          Level 3                    22                        15
          Level 2                     5                         5
          Level 1                     4                         2
        * Achievement Levels:
                 Level 4 & 5: Met or Exceeded Expectations (750-850)
                 Level 5: Exceeded Expectations (varies by grade–850)
                 Level 4: Met Expectations (750-varies by grade)
                 Level 3: Approached Expectations (725-749)
                 Level 2: Partially met Expectations (700-724)
                 Level 1: Did not meet Expectations (650-699)




                                        225
         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                        Grade 4
              English Lang. Arts/Literacy
                       2015                 2016
Level 4 & 5             78                   72
Level 5                 27                   22
Level 4                 51                   50
Level 3                 16                   16
Level 2                  6                    9
Level 1                  0                    3
                          Math
Level 4 & 5             63                   68
Level 5                 10                    8
Level 4                 53                   60
Level 3                 23                   16
Level 2                 11                   13
Level 1                  4                    3

                        Grade 5
              English Lang. Arts/Literacy
                       2015                 2016
Level 4 & 5             81                   79
Level 5                 15                   12
Level 4                 66                   67
Level 3                 13                   18
Level 2                  4                    3
Level 1                  2                    0
                          Math
Level 4 & 5             67                   68
Level 5                 18                   16
Level 4                 49                   52
Level 3                 20                   22
Level 2                 10                    8
Level 1                  3                    3




                         226
         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016

                        Grade 6
              English Lang. Arts/Literacy
                       2015                 2016
Level 4 & 5             79                   78
Level 5                 21                   27
Level 4                 58                   50
Level 3                 17                   13
Level 2                  3                    7
Level 1                  1                    2
                          Math
Level 4 & 5             70                   67
Level 5                 14                   16
Level 4                 55                   51
Level 3                 21                   21
Level 2                  7                    8
Level 1                  2                    4




                        Grade 7
              English Lang. Arts/Literacy
                       2015                 2016
Level 4 & 5             86                   88
Level 5                 48                   48
Level 4                 37                   41
Level 3                 11                    8
Level 2                  2                    3
Level 1                  1                    1
                          Math
Level 4 & 5             67                   71
Level 5                 20                   16
Level 4                 47                   55
Level 3                 23                   20
Level 2                  9                    8
Level 1                  1                    2




                         227
         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016




                        Grade 8
              English Lang. Arts/Literacy
                       2015                 2016
Level 4 & 5             89                   84
Level 5                 32                   35
Level 4                 56                   49
Level 3                  8                   12
Level 2                  2                    3
Level 1                  2                    1
                    Math-Algebra
Level 4 & 5             72                   71
Level 5                 20                   24
Level 4                 52                   47
Level 3                 17                   17
Level 2                  8                    7
Level 1                  3                    5




                         228
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                                        MCAS
Marblehead Public Schools continued to administer MCAS to the 10 th grade in
ELA, Math and Science. Provided below is the MCAS SUMMARY for the past
five years.(percentage of students at each performance level)


                                Grade 10
Eng/Language Arts        2012       2013        2014       2015    2016
Advanced                  57         68          63         76      73
Proficient                42         28          34         22      25
Needs Improvement         0           4          2          2       2
Warning/Failing           1           1          1          0       0
Mathematics              2012       2013        2014       2015    2016
Advanced                  73         68          70         77      67
Proficient                21         24          19         16      25
Needs Improvement         4           7          7          5       6
Warning/Failing           2           2          4          2       2
Science& Technology      2012       2013        2014       2015    2016
Advanced                  49         44          49         52      52
Proficient                38         43          39         37      42
Needs Improvement         12         11          9          10      5
Warning/Failing           1           1          2          0       0



              Marblehead Public Schools continued to administer
                  MCAS Science to the 5th and 8th grades
                                Grade 5
Science & Tech.        2012      2013        2014        2015     2016
Advanced                31        40          39          32       20
Proficient              38        35          39          45       44
Needs Improvement       26        20          17          20       32
Warning/Failing          5         4          5            4       3




                                    229
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016




                                   Grade 8
Science/Technology          2012       2013      2014        2015       2016
Advanced                     14          8        10          8          16
Proficient                   56         57        62          57         49
Needs Improvement            24         32        25          28         29
Warning/Failing              6           3        4           7           7

                                  High School
                     Scholastic Aptitude Test Scores (SAT)
                           Marblehead SAT Scores
                           Critical
           Year                               Math            Writing
                           Reading
           2012               558              578              565
           2013               558              578              565
           2014               557              571              560
           2015               570              570              565
           2016              562              564               565

                              AP Examinations
            YEAR              2012   2013     2014           2015       2016
   # of Students               194    181      238            263        307
   Total Grades reported       321    319      481            497        572
   # of Subjects                17     12       14             17         22
   % Earning 3 or higher      86%    86%      84%            83%        83%

                     National Merit Scholarship Program
        Class of 2017 9 Commended Scholars
        Class of 2016 1 Finalist and 14 Commended Scholars
        Class of 2015 1 Finalist and 13 Commended Scholars
                         Advanced Placement Awards

            Class of 2016          42 AP Scholar Awards
                                   25 AP Scholar with Honors Awards
                                   37 AP Scholar with Distinction Awards
                                    6 AP National Scholar




                                      230
               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



         Class of 2015       40 AP Scholar Awards
                             10 AP Scholar with Honors Awards
                             32 AP Scholar with Distinction Awards
                             6 AP National Scholars

         Class of 2014       27 AP Scholar Awards
                             15 AP Scholar with Honors Awards
                             37 AP Scholar with Distinction Awards
                              6 AP National Scholar

              Post Secondary Report for the Class of 2016
                Size of Class:                         249
                Percentage continuing education        95%
                   Attending 4 year Colleges           90%
                   Attending 2 year Colleges            3%
                   Post Grad or Technical School        2%
                   Military                             1%
               Percentage going into employment         4%


                             Class of 2016
             Valedictorian: Christopher Converse Colcord
               Salutatorian: Michael Leonid Kaminsky

       Caroline Ruth Ackerman
       Matthew Joseph Adams
       Cameron Phillip Addis
       Austin Schoellkopf Allen
       Giulio Francesco Angius
       Victoria June Arakelian
+      Gregory Vladimir Arustamyan
+      Hannah Molly Ashe
       Mackenzie Leigh Ausband
       Samuel Louis Ayer
       Olivia Markell Ballard
*++    Caroline Barone
       William James Barrett
+      Dominick Duncklee Berardi
*♫++   Risa Sophia Berman




                                 231
               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


+     Kaitlyn Elizabeth Bernato
+     Rachel May Blaisdell
++    Michael Christian Blaney
+     Michael Philip Bolognese
+     Sara Ann Bornstein
+     Theodore Colin Bostley
      Emma Chae Broughton
      Desiree Tamara Brown
      Kelly Sullivan Brown
      Hannah Marguerite Bugler
      Maxim Joseph Buonanduci
      Julia Lanier Burke
+     Carly Ruth Burns
      Michael Gilbert Butten
♫+    Perry Rose Byrne
      Ryan Frederick Callori
      Ian Costello Cammett
      David Jon Carey
*++   John David Carollo
+     Spencer Steven Carr
      Harrison Samuel Caulfield
      Laura Leal Cavacim
      Nathaniel William Cayen
      Trevor James Chaisson
+     Sydney Brooke Ciulla
++    Aubrey Dever Clark
     Olivia Rose Clark
      Kirk Barton Clingen
++    Miranda Di Clingen
      Megan Sheridan Clough
      Mark Andrew Cohen
*++   Christopher Converse Colcord
      Logan Joseph Cormier
      Deon James Cottrell
      Liam Francis Coughlin
      Jonathan Reed Cressy
++    Yettive Samantha Crestohl
      Kylie Elizabeth Cronin
      Sarah Grace Cullen
+    Ana Marguerite Curtin




                                 232
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


+      Lydia Jay Curtis
*♫++   Andrew Sergei Dalton
       Colin Matthew Daly
*++    Hannah Molly Davis
+      Kendall Leigh de Vries
++     Madison Ava Delande
+      Audrey Beatrice DeMilo
       Sophie Maud Deutsch
       Jack David Devlin
       Thomas Jordan Diffendal
       Nicholas Arthur DiGiovanni
+     Leanne Marie Doherty
+      Brady Thomas Dolan
+      Andrew John Donlon
♫+     Victoria Anne Donlon
       Michèle Alessandra Donovan
       Sabrina Mayor Doughman
       Morgan Cathy Doyle-Elwell
      Paige Elizabeth Doyle-Elwell
       Celeste Marie Driscoll
       John Kelly Driscoll
*++   Stella Isabelle Elizabeth Egelja
       Isis Chyanne Elston
      Elizabeth Katherine Engstrom
++     Andrew John Ernst
+      Swanee Ushait Falk
       Conor William Fallon
++     Nathan David Faynzilberg
       Owen Edward Feehley
++     Marco Ferrando
+      Linda Marie Fitzpatrick
       Hannah Rose Fowler
♫+     Nicole Elizabeth Frevold
++     William Sean Ryan Gaddis
      Rachel Rose Garfield
*++    John Charles Garrett
       Daniel Lawrence Gienieczko
+      Samantha Rose Gilberg
++     Patrick Jackson Gilligan
♫+     Victoria Christine Gilligan




                                     233
               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


       Sara Nathalie Gindes
       Anna Rebekah Godes
+      George Emilio Goetz
+      Megan Elizabeth Golden
♫      Leah Gina Goldenberg
+      Gabriela Lennie Gonzalez
       Alana Claire Goodman
*♫++   Louisa Katherine MacDonald Gould
*++    Bryan Peter Graf
       Lily Jiumei Granowitz
       Michaela Rois Griffin
+      Max Aaron Gross
       Dylan Paul Haarer
*+     Jacob Michael Hamelburg
++     Lillian Jean Hammer
+      Meagan Anne Hanratty
       Samuel Wayne Hanscom
♫++    Margaret Sloan Hauck
*++    Olivia Sara Hazlett
       Zachary Daniel Heiner
++     Alexandra Amelia Hersey
+      Jack Thomas Hertz
       Charles Ieuan Edward Higgins
       Luke Raymond Hilshey
*++    Annie Bardwell Hollister
       Benjamin Ronald Holloran
      Maura Eileen Honan
       Robert James Hooper
+      Erin Margaret Horgan
+      Nicholas Mark Hurley
       Billie Alexandra Jacobs
*++   Olivia Embrey James
       Kady Bryn Jarvis
+      Breanne Kathleen Joyce
+      Elise Margaret Joyce
+      McKenzie Sullivan Joyce
       Timothy Joseph Kalinowski
*++    Michael Leonid Kaminsky
       Allison Marie Kapoll
       Cisem Karaca




                                234
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


       Kela Kasemi
+     Emily Irene Kauffman
++     Moira Colleen Kay
♫++    Annabelle Eve Kearney
*++    Garret Austen Keough
++    Jillian D'Arcy King
+     Kyle Robert Kliss
+      Allison Elizabeth Klocker
++     Julia Elizabeth Moore Klopfer
       Emma Catherine Knittle
+      Jared Daniel Kokinos
       Zachary Baren Korff
       Kyle William Kreisher
       Eric Michael Krouss
       Noah Reed Kryple
+     Josephine Marie Landau
       Julia Bliss Lane
+      Blake Zachary Larson
++     Zachary Louis Lazar
*++    Duncan Alexander Paul Legget
+      Rachel Caroline Liacos
       Amanda Jacqueline Lindqvist
++     Adam Harris Linsky
       Graham Edward Littler
       Joshua Benjamin Lovins
++     Maxwell Jerome Lutwak
+      Brittany Marie Lydon
*++   Grace Carolyn MacDonald
+      Susannah Marietta Mace
+      Daniella Marie Maney
*++    Julia Elizabeth Marsden
+      Erin Kathleen Martin
       Marissa Leigh Massaro
*++    Corinne Elizabeth Mayle
       Declan Patrick McGorray
♫++    Joseph Francis McKeever
+      Bardia Mehr
*++    Zachary Elliott Michaels
*++    Christopher Mark Mirabella
       Colin Sean Mitchell




                                  235
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


*+    Jordan Robin Mitchell
       James Michael Monahan
+      Peter Richard Morrison
+      Sarah Catherine Mundy
       Neal Patrick Murray
       Isabella Chiara Musso
+      Justyn Paige Needel
+      Amy Frances Nesbitt
       Craig Augustus Nolan
+      Mitchell Wright Norcross
       Liam Tracy Norton
+      Alyssa Rae Nye
*++    Joshua Hillel Okon
*++    Sarah Abigail Oliver
+      Harrison Raymond Orne
+     Renée Lee Pavlovich
+      Samantha Jane Payne
*♫++   Olivia Rose Tatirosian Perez
       Robert Owen Picariello
       Brandon Cruz Pompa-Whitaker
*++   Daniel Skidmore Portnof
+      Margaret Rose Potvin
*++    Henry William Power
       Rachel Kennedy Preston
+      Emily Case Promise
       Hunter Robert Proulx
+      Kelsey Reardon Pruett
*++    Marco Radaelli
       Erik Fergus Richardson-Bach
++     Cassie Jean Riddle
       Camilla Risicato
+     Cordelia Mae Roberts
+      Katherine Grace Rodger
       Janely Milagros Rodriguez Reinoso
       Malachi Charles Rosen
++    Julie Hope Rosenthal
       Paul Joseph Roy
       Nicholas Ruiz
       Lexie Elizabeth Russo
       Marvin Saez




                                  236
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


♫+     Parker Hanako Saltsman
       Oliver Douglas Sanders
+      André Luis Lara Schneider
       Alexis Julianna Seay
+      Kayla Jenette Serowik
+      Alexa Rose Shapiro
++     Christina Suzanne Shatford
*++    Kimberly Ann Shatford
       Cole Joseph Shevory
*++    Jocelyn Paige Smith
♫+     Grace Tran Spinney
       Jeffrey Gordon Stern
       Andrew Stjepic
+      Julia Marie Stockwell
       Trevon Patrick Stone
       Charles Christopher Sweeney
+      Daniel Alec Szottfried
+      Benjamin Murphy Taliesin
       Joshua Peter Tassinari
       Emily Lorraine Tejada
+      Coles Buckley Tompkins
*++    Nicole Leigh Torrie
       Emily Winslow Trasher
*++    Caroline de Brux Tripodi
       Caroline Grace Tucker
+      Marina Caroline Uhrich
++     Lauren Ann Unterborn
       Michael Joseph Vaillancourt
++     Anastasia Paulina Vainas
++     Marika Breed Van Dusen
+      Craig Stetson VanRemoortel
       Gabriella Olivia Van Wittenberghe
+      Isabella Christina Van Wittenberghe
*♫++   Mary Frances Wall
+      Matthew Findeisen Wallace
+      Michael Davenport Weidenbruch
♫+     Abby Jane Wheeler
       Nicholas Chapman Wigglesworth
+      Jakob Clay Wikar
       Hadley Anne Woodfin




                                   237
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


+        Jacob Morris Woodrow
+        Tedd Harrison York
                         * National Honor Society Member
                       National Art Honor Society Member
                      ♫ Tri-M Music Honor Society Member
       ++ High Honor Graduate: 3.8 Cumulative Grade Point Average or better
                                   (7 semesters)
    + Honor Graduate: 3.4 Cumulative Grade Point Average or better (7 semesters)
                NOTE: List of graduates and awards subject to change




                        Five-Year Enrollment Summary

                        10/1/2012   10/1/2013   10/1/2014   10/1/2015   10/1/2016
       Pre-School          37          50          58          44          38

       Elementary         1000        986         952         917         882

       Village School     727         693         701         680         672

       Middle School      505         516         514         510         506

       High School        996         1053        1030        1066        1056

       Total              3265        3298        3255        3217        3154




                                         238
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016




October 1, 2016 Enrollment Numbers




               239
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


                             TOWN WARRANT
                          ANNUAL TOWN MEETING
                               MAY 1, 2017

Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
County of Essex, ss
to Any Constable in the Town of Marblehead
Greeting:

You are hereby required and directed in the name of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts to warn and give notice to the inhabitants of Marblehead, qualified to
vote in elections and in town affairs, to meet at the Marblehead Veterans Middle
School Auditorium, Duncan Sleigh Square, 217 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA,
on Monday, the first day of May next A. D. 2017 (it being the first Monday in May)
at 7:00 o’clock in the afternoon to act on the following articles in the Warrant for
said meeting as follows:

Article 1 Articles in Numerical Order
To see if the Town will vote to adopt an order requiring articles in the Warrant to be
taken up in their numerical order, or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 2 Reports of Town Officers and Committees
To receive the report of the Town Accountant, the reports of the Town Officers, and
special Committees, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 3 Assume Liability
To see if the Town will assume liability in the manner provided by Section 29 of
Chapter 91 of the General Laws, for all damages that may be incurred by work to be
performed by the Massachusetts Highway Department for the improvement,
development, maintenance and protection of tidal and non-tidal rivers and streams,
harbors, tidewaters, foreshores and shores along a public beach in accordance with
Section 11 of Chapter 91 of the General Laws and authorize the Selectmen to
execute and deliver a bond of indemnity therefore to the Commonwealth, or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.




                                        240
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Article 4 Accept Trust Property
To see if the Town will vote to accept certain trust property, gifts or grants to be
administered by the Town or modify the terms thereof, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by Town Counsel.

Article 5 Lease Town Property
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to let or
lease such land, buildings or structures owned by the Town on such terms as they
may determine, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen.

Article 6 Unpaid Accounts
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum
of money to provide for the payment of any unpaid accounts brought forward from
previous years, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Director.

Article 7 Departmental Revolving Funds
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 63 of the Town of Marblehead
General Bylaws by adding a new section 63-9 to establish and authorize revolving
funds for use by certain town departments, boards, committees, agencies or officers
under G.L. c. 44 §53E 1/2, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by
the Board of Selectmen.

Article 8 Establish Injury Leave Indemnification Fund
To see if the Town will vote to accept paragraph 4 of G.L. c. 41 §111F in order to
establish and appropriate amounts for a special injury leave indemnity fund for
payment of injury leave compensation or medical bills incurred under G.L. c. 41
§111F or §100, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Director.

Article 9 Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
To see if the Town will raise and appropriate any sums of money for the purchase
of equipment for the several departments of the Town, to authorize the Board of
Selectmen to trade old equipment as part of the purchase price and to determine
whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise, or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.




                                       241
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Article 10 Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for
remodeling, reconstructing and making extraordinary repairs to existing Town or
School buildings and the purchase of necessary equipment including computer
hardware and software to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by
borrowing or otherwise, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 11 Walls and Fences
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for the
construction and reconstruction of walls and fences for the protection of highways
and property, including engineering services in connection therewith; to authorize
the appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or
otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefore; to determine whether this
appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 12 Amend Town Bylaw related to Building Permit Fees
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Town of Marblehead General Bylaws
Article III Permits, Section 30-15(B) as follows (underline and bold is new
language and cross through is omitted language):
30-15 B
The amount of such fees shall be $15 per $1,000 of the total cost of the work to be
done under such permits, as estimated by the Building Commissioner, with a
minimum fee for each permit issued of $30. This fee will include the cost of the
wiring permit and plumbing permit. Other permits will be based on the following
fees:
(1) Roofing permit: $30.
(2) Siding permit: $30.
(3) Demolition permit: $30.
(4) Staging permit: $30.
Or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by Board of Selectmen.

Article 13 Accept Gift of Land
To see if the town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to accept a gift of
real property owned by Tower School in Marblehead, MA as more fully set forth on
the plan entitled: “Rights Plan in Marblehead, Mass Showing Proposed Area to be
Gifted to the Town of Marblehead”, having a Scale 1” = 20’ and being dated
January 9, 2017, drawn by Hayes Engineering, Inc., or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.




                                       242
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Article 14 Application of Bond Premium
To see if the Town will vote to supplement each prior vote of the Town that
authorizes the borrowing of money to pay costs of capital projects to provide that,
in accordance with Chapter 44, Section 20 of the General Laws, the premium
received by the Town upon the sale of any bonds or notes thereunder, less any such
premium applied to the payment of the costs of issuance of such bond or notes, may
be applied to pay project costs and the amount authorized to be borrowed for each
such project shall be reduced by the amount of any such premium so applied, or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Director.

Article 15 Fiscal 2017 Water Department Additional Appropriation
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum
of money to fund additional expenses of the Fiscal 2017 Water Department budget,
said sum to be added to Article 27, Item 232 Water Expense as voted at the Annual
Town Meeting in May 2016, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by
the Finance Director.

Article 16 Water Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction, reconstruction and extending of
water mains, replacement of water meters, appurtenances, engineering, consultants,
surveys including revenue studies and other general Water Department purposes,
and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by
purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements necessary, or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 17 Sewer Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction or reconstruction of sewers for
sanitary purposes and for sewerage disposal, pump stations, original pumping
equipment, metering equipment, safety equipment, replacement of said equipment,
engineering, consultants, surveys, including revenue studies and other general
Sewer Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or
easements necessary, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.




                                       243
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Article18 Storm Drainage Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the construction,
reconstruction, permitting and maintenance of storm sewers for surface drainage,
including engineering services in connection therewith, and for general Drain
Department purposes, including the purchase or lease of equipment, and to
authorize the appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or
otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefore, and to raise the money for
such purposes by the issue of bonds or notes or in any other manner, to be expended
by the Water and Sewer Commission; or to take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 19 Water and Sewer Commission Claims
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the
Board of Selectmen acting jointly to compromise any claims for damages or suits
pending against the Town of Marblehead on account of acts which may have
occurred during the construction of the water, sewer and storm water system, or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 20 Financial Assistance for Conservation
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Conservation Commission and other
proper officers of the Town to apply for financial assistance from public and private
sources to be expended by the Conservation Commission for the purchase of vacant
land and any other purpose, authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General
Laws as amended, or to reimburse the Town for sums of money expended for such
purposes, or both, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Conservation Commission.

Article 21 Ratification of Salary Bylaw
To see if the Town will vote to ratify certain actions taken by the Compensation
Committee under Chapter 43 Section 3(e) as last amended and amend the
classification table by reclassifying two positions, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Compensation Committee.

Article 22 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Administrative)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Administrative Pay Schedule; to strike out the pay schedule
as it relates to Administrative personnel, substitute in place thereof the new pay
schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of money to




                                        244
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 23 Proposed Pay Schedule and Reclassification (Traffic Supervisors)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Traffic Supervisors Pay Schedule; to waive the pay schedule
as it relates to Traffic Supervisor personnel, substitute in place thereof the new pay
schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of money to
make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 24 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Seasonal and
Temporary Personnel)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Seasonal and Temporary Personnel Pay Schedules; strike
out the pay schedules as they relate to seasonal and temporary personnel, substitute
in place thereof the new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or
appropriate a sum of money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 25 Compensation - Town Officers
To see if the Town will vote to revise the compensation of the Town Clerk as the
Town by vote may determine and to transfer from available funds and/or
appropriate a sum of money to make said revision effective, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 26 Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District
To see if the Town will vote to approve the gross operating and maintenance budget
of the Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District for the fiscal
year commencing July 1, 2017 and appropriate a sum of money for the Town’s
assessment of the same, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 27 Available Funds Appropriate to Reduce Tax Rate
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate free cash balance in the hands of the
Town Treasurer, including any surplus or part of surplus in the Electric Light
Department for use of the Assessors in making the tax rate, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Director.




                                        245
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Article 28 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the necessary and
usual expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2017, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Director.

Article 29 Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the supplemental
expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning July
1, 2017, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Director.

Article 30 Layout and Acceptance of Tioga Way
To see if the Town will vote to accept and allow the layout of Tioga Way as a Town
Way made by the Selectmen and authorize the Selectmen to take by eminent
domain or otherwise the lands included, included in said layout and raise and
appropriate a sum of money for the payment of land damages and for the
construction of said way, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by
Robert Hansen and others.

Article 31 Town Clerk, Appointed
To see if the Town will, pursuant to Massachusetts General Law Chapter 41 Section
1B, vote to change the position of Town Clerk from elected to appointed by the
Board of Selectmen, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by Charles
Gessner and others.

Article 32 Transparency in Political Donations
To see if the Town will vote to support a resolution supporting state and federal
legislation that provides greater transparency in political donations and limits the
influence of money in politics and to request our state and federal representatives to
support and lead efforts to pass such legislation, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by Barbara Grenier and others.

Article 33 Expenses for Holiday Decorations
To determine whether the Town of Marblehead will allocate funds in the amount of
$2600.00 (two thousand and six hundred dollars) for the beautification of the town
during December-Winter holiday season, which funds shall be used to decorate the
commercial zones on Washington Street, Pleasant Street and Atlantic Avenue with




                                        246
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


garlands, wreaths, ribbon etc. and to pay for the installation of said decorations, or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by Dawn LiVigne, Kristin Pollard
and others.

You are hereby further required and directed to notify and warn the Inhabitants of
the Town of Marblehead aforesaid who are qualified to vote in elections and in
Town affairs to subsequently meet at the several designated polling places in their
respective precincts in said Marblehead to wit:

In Precinct 1 - Polling Place –
OLD TOWN HOUSE
1 Market Square
In Precinct 2 - Polling Place –
MASONIC TEMPLE
62 Pleasant Street
In Precinct 3 - Polling Place –
MASONIC TEMPLE
62 Pleasant Street
In Precinct 4 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
10 Humphrey Street
In Precinct 5 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
10 Humphrey Street
In Precinct 6 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
10 Humphrey Street

on Tuesday, the 9th day of May next A.D. 2017 (it being the second Tuesday after
the first Monday in May) at 7 o’clock in the forenoon then and there to bring into
the precinct officers of their respective precincts their votes on one ballot for the
following-named Town Officers to wit:

Selectmen 5 for 1 year
Moderator 1 for 1year
Assessors 1 for 3 years
Cemetery Commission 1 for 3 years
Board of Health 1 for 3 years
Library Trustee 2 for 3 years
Library Trustee 1 for a 1 year unexpired term




                                        247
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016


Municipal Light Commission 1 for 3 years
Planning Board 2 for 3 years
Recreation and Park Commission 5 for 1 year
School Committee 2 for 3 years
Water & Sewer Commission 2 for 3 years
Water & Sewer Commission 1 for a 2 year unexpired term

For these purposes the polls will be open at each and all of said precincts at 7
o’clock in the forenoon and will be closed at 8 o’clock in the afternoon at each and
all of said precincts and you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested
copies thereof at Abbot Hall and ten (10) other conspicuous places in Town as
required by the Bylaws not later than thirty (30) days after being closed.

Hereof fail not and make due return of this Warrant or a certified copy thereof with
our doings thereon, to each of the several precinct wardens at the time and place of
meetings aforesaid and to the Town Clerk as soon as may be before the said
meetings.




                                       248
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2016



Given under our hands at Marblehead aforesaid this 15 th day of February 2017.

____________________________________
JACKIE BELF-BECKER, Chair

____________________________________
HARRY C. CHRISTENSEN, JR.

____________________________________
JUDITH R. JACOBI

____________________________________
BRET T. MURRAY

____________________________________
JAMES E. NYE

Selectmen of Marblehead




A True Copy

Attest:                                   , Constable




                                       249
Departmental Information
      Emergency:
      FIRE                                              911
      POLICE                                            911

Town of Marblehead Official Website: www.marblehead.org

(Note: All phone numbers are 781 Area Code unless otherwise noted.)
Assessments                           Assessors                    631-0236
Birth, Marriage & Death Certificates Town Clerk                    631-0528
Board of Appeals (Zoning)             Engineering                  631-1529
Building Permits                      Building                     631-2220
Burial Permits                        Health Department            631-0212
Cemetery                              Cemetery                     631-1182
Collector of Taxes                    Finance                      631-0587
Council on Aging                      Council on Aging             631-6737
Elections                             Town Clerk                   631-0528
Finance Director                      Finance                      631-1705
Fire Prevention                       Fire Department              639-3428
Fuel Oil Storage                      Fire Department              639-3428
Harbormaster                          Harbormaster                 631-2386
Health                                Health Department            631-0212
Historical Commission                 Abbot Hall                   639-3425
Library                               Abbot Public Library         631-1480
Licenses – alcohol, common victualler
  entertainment, second hand          Selectmen’s Office           631-0000
Licenses – marriage, dog              Town Clerk                   631-0528
Plumbing Permits                      Building                     639-9151
Police Administration                 Police Dept.                 631-1212
Recreation                            Recreation & Park            631-3350
Schools:                              Administration               639-3140
                                      High School                  639-3100
                                      Veterans Middle School       639-3120
                                      Village School               639-3159
                                      Bell                         639-3171
                                      Coffin                       639-3181
                                      Gerry                        639-3186
                                      Glover                       639-3191
Streets, Sidewalks                    Public Works                 631-1750
Town Administrator                    Selectmen’s Office           631-0000
Town Treasurer                        Finance                      631-1033
Trees                                 Tree Warden                  631-2721
Veterans’ Benefits                    Veterans’ Agent              631-0990
Water & Sewer                         Water & Sewer                631-2694
Weights & Measures                    Sealer                       631-0990
Wiring Permits                        Building                     639-9151
Zoning Enforcement                    Building                     631-2220

FEDERAL AND STATE SENATORS AND REPRESENTATIVES:
US Senators:                Elizabeth Warren 617-565-3170
                            Ed Markey        617-565-8519
US Representative (6th Dt.) Seth Moulton     978-531-1669
MA Representative (8th Dt.) Lori Ehrlich     617-722-2014
MA Senator (3rd Dt.):       Thomas M. McGee  617-722-1350
