        ANNUAL
     TOWN REPORT
    OF THE YEAR 2014



MARBLEHEAD, MASSACHUSETTS
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Board of Selectmen                                 3
Town Clerk                                         6
Warrant for Annual Town Meeting                    6
May 5, 2014
Results of Annual Town Meeting                     23
May 5, 2014
Results of Annual Town Election                    56
May 13, 2014
Warrant for State Primary                          61
September 9, 2014
Results of State Primary                           63
September 9, 2014
Warrant for State Election                         69
November 4, 2014
Results of State Election                          75
November 4, 2014
Officials Elected                                  80
Officials Appointed                                83
Vital Records of 2014 - # of births,               95
marriages, deaths
Department Reports:
Abbot Public Library                               96
Board of Assessors                                105
Board of Health                                   107
Building Commissioner and Inspectional            117
Services
Cemetery Department                               119
Conservation Commission                           122
Council on Aging                                  124
Department of Public Works                        129
Engineering Department                            131
Financial Services                                132
Fire Department                                   135
Fort Sewall Oversight Committee                   150
Harbors and Waters                                152
Marblehead Cultural Council                       154
Marblehead Fair Housing Committee                 156
Marblehead Historical Commission                  157
Marblehead Housing Authority                      160




                                         1
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Metropolitan Area Planning Council              170
Municipal Light Department                      172
Old Burial Hill Oversight Committee             181
Old and Historic Districts Commission           183
Planning Board                                  184
Police Department                               186
Recreation & Parks                              191
Sealer of Weights & Measures                    199
Shellfish Constables                            200
Task Force Against Discrimination               201
Tree Department                                 204
Veterans’ Agent                                 205
Water and Sewer Commission                      206
Zoning Board of Appeals                         215
School Reports                                  216
Marblehead School Committee members
organization and meetings
Admission Requirements
No School Announcement/School Hours
Superintendent of Schools
Marblehead School Committee Report
Administration, Faculty and Staff
2014 MCAS Summary
Scholastic Aptitude Test Scores (SAT)
5 year history
Marblehead High School Class of 2014
Enrollment Summaries
Town Warrant – Annual Town Meeting              262
May 4, 2015




                                   2
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                         BOARD OF SELECTMEN

The Board of Selectmen is comprised of five members, each elected annually.
Members of the Board of Selectmen are Chairman, Jackie Belf-Becker, Harry C.
Christensen, Jr., Judith R. Jacobi, Bret T. Murray and James E. Nye. The Board
meets on the second and fourth Wednesday of each month at 7:30 pm in the
Selectmen’s Meeting Room in Abbot Hall and as needed at other times. All
meetings are open to the public.

The Abbot Hall repair and restoration of the clock tower and accessibility upgrades
to Abbot Hall were completed in 2014. The main focus of the project was repairing
the structural stability of the masonry tower. Work included re-pointing of the
masonry and stone; repairs and replacement of roof and sidewall flashings;
reconstruction and re-pointing and stabilization of the four bell tower turrets; repairs
and refinishing of clock hands and faces; repairs or replacement and repainting of
wood parts of the peak dormers; replacement of slate roof shingles; removal and
replacement of weathervane support; reinstallation of weathervane and installation
of lightning protection in the tower. The accessibility upgrades included new
hardware, railings, signage, and installation of new handicapped parking space. The
Town received several variances from the Massachusetts Architectural Access
Board.

In 2014 the Town received a grant from the Massachusetts Historic Commission to
contract with architects and engineers to conduct a conditions assessment and
treatment recommendations for Fort Sewall. This grant was matched by funds from
the Curtis Coffin Fund administered by the Recreation and Park Commission. This
report was completed by the architectural firm of McGinley Kalsow of Somerville
and the structural engineering firm of Structures North of Salem.

The Town conducted repairs on several Town owned buildings under the control of
the Board of Selectmen including window painting and replacement at the Mary
Alley Building, painting and lighting replacement in the Meeting Room at Mary
Alley Building, new windows at the Central Fire Station and Police Station and the
exterior painting of the Old Town House.

The Board of Selectmen voted to restore voting to the Old Town House. This will
bring voting back after several years of voting at alternate locations due to
accessibility issues which have been remedied.




                                           3
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


This year several employees of the Town left their positions: Teri McDonough,
Council on Aging Director; Brendan Egan, Recreation and Park Director; and Jeff
Chelgren, Town Administrator. The Board thanks them for their services and
wishes them well. The Town also welcomes the following new employees: Lisa
Hooper, Council on Aging Director; Tim Short, Recreation and Park Director. John
McGinn, the Town’s Finance Director for the past 10 years, was appointed Town
Administrator in November.

The Board sadly acknowledges the death of Phil Sweeney, long time member of the
Abbot Public Library Board of Trustees and the Chairman of the Electric Light
Commission and also the passing of Naomi McIver former Town Treasurer.

As the local licensing authority, the Selectmen renewed and/or issued the following
licenses concerning its licensed serving establishments:

Annual All Alcoholic Restaurant (15)
Annual All Alcoholic – Package Store (5)
Annual All Alcoholic Fraternal Club (2)
Annual All Alcoholic Club (3)
Season All Alcoholic Club (2)
Annual Wine & Malt – Package (1)
Annual Wine & Malt Restaurant (7 Day) (5)
Annual Common Victualler (40)
Annual Entertainment (16)
Sunday Entertainment (14)
Second Hand Dealers (12)
Automatic Amusement Device (14)
Annual Auto Class II (1)
Annual Lodging (3)
Movie Theatre (1)

Several significant gifts were given to the town including a painting depicting the
battle between the USS Constitution and the HMS Guerriere. This gift was given to
the Town by the Speiss family of Marblehead. Additionally the Festival of Arts
gifted a Beverly Seaman’s sculpture entitled Winslow II. A gift of funds to be used
for the creation of a repository for the Town of Marblehead historical documents
and records under the control of the town’s Historical Commission was present by
Patricia Lausier on behalf of Ross and Rita Terrain. The Board is appreciative of
these generous gifts.




                                         4
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


The Board would like to recognize the tremendous amount of time volunteers
throughout the Town government and local philanthropic organizations devote to
working for the benefit of Marblehead. In addition to thanking the volunteers for
their time, the Board also thanks all of those who contributed financially to the
various funds established for the benefit of the Town. Also the Board recognizes
the efforts and dedication of our town employees who work extraordinarily well
together.

The Board also thanks Rebecca Curran Cutting, Town Planner/Chief Procurement
Officer; Kyle Wiley, Administrative Aide and the office staff Jennifer Smith and
Jane Tricomi, for all their assistance this past year and extend our best wishes and
thanks to the all of the citizens of the Town of Marblehead whom we faithfully and
conscientiously strive to represent.

Faithfully yours,

Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
Judith R. Jacobi
Bret T. Murray
James E. Nye




                                         5
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                                TOWN CLERK

Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
County of Essex, ss
to Any Constable in the Town of Marblehead
Greeting:

You are hereby required and directed in the name of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts to warn and give notice to the inhabitants of Marblehead, qualified to
vote in elections and in town affairs, to meet at the Marblehead Veterans Middle
School Auditorium, Duncan Sleigh Square, 217 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA,
on Monday, the fifth day of May next A. D. 2014 (it being the first Monday in May)
at 7:00 o’clock in the afternoon to act on the following articles in the Warrant for
said meeting as follows:

Article 1 Pledge of Allegiance
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 174 of the Town bylaws by adding a
new section, 174-14, that would require the recitation of the United States Pledge of
Allegiance at the beginning of any session of Town Meeting as follows: “§174-14 –
Pledge of Allegiance. Each session of Town Meeting shall begin with the recitation
of the United States Pledge of Allegiance.”, or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by Joan D. Cutler and others.

Article 2 Articles in Numerical Order
To see if the Town will vote to adopt an order requiring articles in the Warrant to be
taken up in their numerical order, or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by
the Board of Selectmen.

Article 3 Reports of Town Officers and Committees
To receive the report of the Town Accountant, the reports of the Town Officers, and
special Committees, or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen.

Article 4 Assume Liability
To see if the Town will assume liability in the manner provided by Section 29 of
Chapter 91 of the General Laws, for all damages that may be incurred by work to be
performed by the Massachusetts Highway Department for the improvement,
development, maintenance and protection of tidal and non-tidal rivers and streams,
harbors, tidewaters, foreshores and shores along a public beach in accordance with




                                          6
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Section 11 of Chapter 91 of the General Laws and authorize the Selectmen to
execute and deliver a bond of indemnity therefor to the Commonwealth, or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 5 Accept Trust Property
To see if the Town will vote to accept certain trust property, gifts or grants to be
administered by the Town or modify the terms thereof, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by Town Counsel.

Article 6 Lease Town Property
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to let or
lease such land, buildings or structures owned by the Town on such terms as they
may determine, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen.

Article 7 Unpaid Accounts
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of
money to provide for the payment of any unpaid accounts brought forward from
previous years, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Director.

Article 8 Revolving Funds
To see if the Town will vote to authorize various revolving funds as required by
M.G.L. c 44 s.53E ½, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 9 Walls and Fences
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for the
construction and reconstruction of walls and fences for the protection of highways
and property, including engineering services in connection therewith; to authorize
the appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or
otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefor; to determine whether this
appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 10 Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
To see if the Town will raise and appropriate any sums of money for the purchase of
equipment for the several departments of the Town; to authorize the Board of
Selectmen to trade old equipment as part of the purchase price; to determine




                                         7
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise, or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Committee.

Article 11 Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for
remodeling, reconstructing and making extraordinary repairs to existing Town or
School buildings and the purchase of necessary equipment including computer
hardware and software to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by
borrowing or otherwise, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 12 Water Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction, reconstruction and extending of
water mains, replacement of water meters, appurtenances, engineering, consultants,
surveys including revenue studies and other general Water Department purposes,
and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by
purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements necessary, or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 13 Sewer Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction or reconstruction of sewers for
sanitary purposes and for sewerage disposal, pump stations, original pumping
equipment, metering equipment, safety equipment, replacement of said equipment,
engineering, consultants, surveys, including revenue studies and other general
Sewer Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or
easements necessary, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 14 Storm Drainage Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the construction,
reconstruction and maintenance of storm sewers for surface drainage purposes, and
to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain
or otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefor, and to raise the money for
such purposes by the issue of bonds or notes or in any other manner, or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.




                                        8
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



Article 15 Water and Sewer Commission Claims
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the
Board of Selectmen acting jointly to compromise any claims for damages or suits
pending against the Town of Marblehead on account of acts which may have
occurred during the construction of the water, sewer and storm water system, or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 16 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Administrative)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Administrative Pay Schedule; to strike out the pay schedule
as it relates to Administrative personnel, substitute in place thereof the new pay
schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of money to
make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.


Article 17 Proposed Pay Schedule and Reclassification (Traffic Supervisors)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Traffic Supervisors Pay Schedule; to waive the pay schedule
as it relates to Traffic Supervisor personnel, substitute in place thereof the new pay
schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of money to
make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 18 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Seasonal and
Temporary Personnel)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Seasonal and Temporary Personnel Pay Schedules; strike out
the pay schedules as they relate to seasonal and temporary personnel, substitute in
place thereof the new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or
appropriate a sum of money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 19 Compensation - Town Officers




                                          9
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


To see if the Town will vote to revise the compensation of the Town Clerk as the
Town by vote may determine and to transfer from available funds and/or
appropriate a sum of money to make said revision effective, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 20 Financial Assistance for Conservation
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Conservation Commission and other
proper officers of the Town to apply for financial assistance from public and private
sources to be expended by the Conservation Commission for the purchase of vacant
land and any other purpose, authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General
Laws as amended, or to reimburse the Town for sums of money expended for such
purposes, or both, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Conservation Commission.

Article 21 Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District
To see if the Town will vote to approve the gross operating and maintenance budget
of the Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District for the fiscal
year commencing July 1, 2014 and appropriate a sum of money for the Town’s
assessment of the same, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 22 Available Funds Appropriate to Reduce Tax Rate
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate free cash balance in the hands of the
Town Treasurer, including any surplus or part of surplus in the Electric Light
Department for use of the Assessors in making the tax rate, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Director.

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the necessary and
usual expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2014, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Department.

Article 24 Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the supplemental
expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning July
1, 2014, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Department.




                                         10
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



Article 25 Mooring Fees in Marblehead Waters.
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 190, Section 190-5 which currently
reads:

The Harbormaster shall collect from the applicant a mooring permit fee of $6.50 per
foot for Marblehead Harbor, Little Harbor, and Dolibers Cove. All other locations
in Marblehead anchorage shall be assessed $4 per foot. Working commercial
fishermen shall have their permit fee abated to a rate of $3 per foot upon approval of
the Harbormaster. Such fee shall be assessed on a per-foot basis, measured from the
stem in a straight line aft to the stem of the vessel. Booms, boomkins or pulpits are
exempt from the measurement. The minimum mooring permit fee shall be $10. The
mooring permit fee for a float shall also be assessed on $6.50 per lineal foot basis of
the overall length. Said fee shall be collected before a mooring permit is issued. All
fees collected by the Harbormaster shall be paid to the Town of Marblehead. All
permits shall expire on the first day of February following the year of issue.

To read instead (Strikeout text represents deleted language and bold and underline
font represents proposed amendment.):

The Harbormaster shall collect from the applicant a mooring permit fee of $6.50 per
foot for Marblehead Harbor, Little Harbor, and Dolibers Cove. All other locations
in Marblehead anchorage shall be assessed $ 5.50 per foot. Working commercial
fishermen shall have their permit fee abated to a rate of $3.00 per foot upon
approval of the Harbormaster. Such fee shall be assessed on a per-foot basis,
measured from the stem in a straight line aft to the stem of the vessel. Booms,
boomkins or pulpits are exempt from the measurement. The minimum mooring
permit fee shall be $10.00 the mooring permit fee for a float shall also be assessed
on $6.50 per lineal foot basis of the overall length. Said fee shall be collected before
a mooring permit is issued. All fees collected by the Harbormaster shall be paid to
the Town of Marblehead. All permits shall expire on the first day of February
following the year of issue.

Or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Harbors and Waters Board.

Article 26 Acquisition of Property: 89 Front Street
To see if the Town will vote to purchase, acquire or take by eminent domain, and to
raise and appropriate a sum of money, either by appropriation, borrowing or
otherwise, to fund said purchase, taking or acquisition, along with all legal costs
associated therewith, the properties and building(s) located at 89 Front Street and




                                          11
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Front Street, and more particularly as set forth in Town of Marblehead Assessor’s
Map 148 Parcel 57 and Parcel 56 respectively containing 0.680 acres of land more
or less and 0.047 acres of land more or less, respectively, for the purpose of water
related uses, or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Harbors and
Waters Board.

Article 27 Acquisition of Property: 247 Pleasant Street
To see if the Town will vote to purchase, acquire or take by eminent domain, and to
raise and appropriate a sum of money, either by appropriation, borrowing or
otherwise, to fund said purchase, taking or acquisition, along with all legal costs
associated therewith, the property and building(s) located at 247 Pleasant Street,
and more particularly described in a deed found at Book 14574 Page 133 recorded
at the Essex South Registry of Deeds containing 24,266 square feet +/-, for library
purposes, or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Trustees of Abbot
Public Library.

Article 28 Amend The Town of Marblehead General Bylaws by adding a new
Chapter 157 Environmental Hazards: Reduction of Waste, Article I: Plastic
Bag Reduction
To see if the Town will vote to approve an Amendment to the Town of Marblehead
General Bylaws by adding a new CHAPTER 157 entitled, Environmental Hazards:
Reduction of Waste, Article I: Plastic Bag Reduction, regarding the prohibition of
the distribution and use of thin-film, single-use plastic carryout bags by retail
establishments in the Town of Marblehead as follows:

Chapter 157: Environmental Hazards: Reduction of Waste

Article 1 Plastic Bag Reduction
§157-1 Purpose
The production and use of thin-film, single-use checkout bags have been shown to
have significant detrimental impacts on the environment, including, but not limited
to, contributing to the potential death of marine animals through ingestion and
entanglement; contributing to pollution of the land environment; creating a burden
to solid waste collection and recycling facilities; clogging storm drainage systems;
and requiring the use of millions of barrels of crude oil nationally for their
manufacture. The purpose of this bylaw is to eliminate the usage of thin-film,
single-use plastic bags by all retail establishments in the Town of Marblehead
thereby promoting the health and safety of the citizens of the Town through the
preservation of the environment.
§157-2: Definitions




                                        12
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


The following words shall, unless context clearly indicates otherwise, have the
following meanings:
“ASTM D6400”, the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM)
International “Standard Specification for Compostable Plastics” which includes
those plastics and products made from plastics that are designed to be composted
under aerobic conditions in municipal and industrial aerobic composting facilities.
“ASTM D7081”, ASTM International “Standard Specification for Biodegradable
Plastics in the Marine Environment” which includes those plastics and products that
are designed to be biodegradable under the marine environmental conditions of
aerobic marine waters or anaerobic marine sediments, or both.
“Carryout Bag” shall mean a bag provided by a store to a customer at the point of
sale for the purpose of removing products purchased therein. Carryout Bags shall
not include those bags, whether plastic or not, intended for the use by a customer for
placing loose produce or other bulk food items to carry to the point of sale or
checkout area of the store.
“Compostable Plastic Bag” shall mean a plastic bag that (1) conforms to the current
ASTM D6400 specifications for compostability; (2) is certified and labeled as
meeting the ASTM D6400 standard specifications by a recognized verification
entity.
“Director”, the Director of Public Health or his/her designee.
“Marine Degradable Plastic Bag” shall mean a plastic bag that conforms to the
current ASTM D7081 standard specification for marine degradability.
“Retail establishment” shall mean any commercial business facility that sells goods
directly to the consumer including but not limited to grocery stores, pharmacies,
liquor stores, “mini-marts,” and retail stores and vendors selling clothing, food and
personal items.
“Reusable Bag” shall mean a bag with handles that is specifically designed for
multiple reuse and is either (1) made of cloth or other washable fabric; or (2) made
of durable plastic 3 mil in thickness; (3) or of some other durable material; (4) does
not contain lead, cadmium, or any other heavy metal in toxic amounts.
“Thin-Film, Single-Use Plastic Bags” shall mean those bags typically with handles,
constructed of high-density polyethylene (HDPE), low density polyethylene
(LDPE), linear low density polyethylene (LLDPE), polyvinyl chloride (PVC),
polyethylene terephthalate (PET), polypropylene (other than woven and non-woven
polypropylene fabric) if said film is less than 3.0 mils (.0762mm) in thickness and
which do not meet the ASTM D6400 and ASTM D7081 standard specifications.

§157-3 Thin-film, Single-Use Plastic Bags Prohibited
A.       No retail establishment in the Town of Marblehead shall provide Thin-
Film, Single-Use Plastic Bags to customers.




                                         13
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


B.      If a retail establishment provides Carryout Bags to customers, the bags
must be one of the following:
(1) Recyclable paper bag, or
(2) Reusable Carryout Bag, or
(3) Bag made from a polymer which meets the specifications of ASTM D6400 and
ASTM 7081, as defined herein.

C. Exception: Thin-film plastic bags typically without handles which are used to
contain dry cleaning, newspapers, produce, meat, bulk foods, wet items and other
similar merchandise are not prohibited under this bylaw.

§157-4 Enforcement; violations and penalties.
A.       The Board of Health, the Director of Public Health and persons designated
by the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to administer and enforce
this bylaw.
B.       Whoever violates any provision of this bylaw may be penalized by a non-
criminal disposition process as provided in G.L. c. 40, §21D.
C.       For the first violation, the Director of Public Health or its designee, upon
determination that a violation has occurred, shall issue a written warning notice to
the establishment which will specify the violation and the appropriate penalties in
the event of future violations.
D.       The following penalties shall apply
a.       A fine of $25 for the first violation following the issuance of a written
warning notice.
b.       A fine of $50 for the second and any other violation that occurs after the
issuance of a warning notice.
E.       Fines are cumulative and each day or portion thereof shall constitute a
separate offense. If more than one, each condition violated shall constitute a
separate offense.
F.       Whoever violates any provision of this bylaw may be penalized by
indictment or on complaint brought in the district court. Except as may be otherwise
provided by law and as the district court may see fit to impose, the maximum
penalty for each offense shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00).
§157-5 Severability; effective date.
A.       Each section of this bylaw shall be construed as separate to the end that if
any section, sentence, clause or phrase thereof shall be held invalid for any reason,
the remainder of that bylaw and all other bylaws shall continue in full force.
B.       This bylaw shall take effect twelve (12) months following the effective
date of the bylaw to allow time for retail establishments to use their existing
inventory of plastic checkout bags and to convert to alternative packaging materials.




                                        14
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



§157-6 Regulations
The Board of Health may adopt and periodically amend rules and regulations to
effectuate the purposes of this by-law. Prior to the adoption and subsequent
amendment to the rules and regulations, if any, the Board of Health shall hold a
public hearing. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, and of the subject
matter, sufficient for identification, shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the Town once in each of two successive weeks, the first publication
to be not less than 14 days before the day of the hearing. A copy of the adopted
regulations shall be made available at the Office of the Town Clerk and as otherwise
deemed appropriate by the Board of Health. Failure by the Board of Health to
promulgate such rules and regulations shall not have the effect of suspending or
invalidating this by-law. Or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Health.

Article 29 Amend the Town of Marblehead General Bylaws by adding a new
Chapter 157 – entitled, Environmental Hazards: Reduction of Waste, Article
II, Expanded Polystyrene Food and Beverage Containers Prohibited
To see if the Town will vote to approve an amendment to the Town of Marblehead
General Bylaws by adding a new Chapter 157: Environmental Hazards: Reduction
of Waste, Article II, Expanded Polystyrene Food and Beverage Containers
Prohibited, regarding the prohibition of the distribution and use of expanded
polystyrene food and beverage containers by food establishments in the Town of
Marblehead as follows:

Chapter 157: Environmental Hazards: Reduction of Waste
Article II: Expanded Polystyrene Food and Beverage Containers Prohibited
§157- 7 Findings and Purpose
Expanded polystyrene food containers form a significant portion of the solid waste
stream going into our landfills. Local landfills are running out of room; our future
solid waste may need to be transported hundreds of miles to a landfill at a
considerable cost. Expanded polystyrene are not biodegradable; once buried in a
landfill, they will remain for centuries. The elimination of expanded polystyrene
food and beverage containers is in the best interest of the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the Town of Marblehead.
§ 157-8 Definitions
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
“Disposable Food Service Container” shall mean single-use disposable products for
serving or transporting prepared, ready-to-consume food or beverages, including,
without limitation, take-out foods and/or leftovers from partially consumed meals




                                         15
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


prepared by a restaurant and/or retail food establishment. This includes, but is not
limited to, plates, cups, bowls, trays, hinged or lidded containers, straws, cup lids, or
utensils. It shall not include single-use disposable packaging for unprepared foods.
“Expanded Polystyrene” shall mean blown polystyrene (polystyrene that has been
expanded or blown using a gaseous blowing agent into a solid foam) and expanded
and extruded forms, which are thermoplastic petrochemical materials utilizing a
styrene monomer and processed by any number of techniques including, but not
limited to, fusion of polymer spheres (expandable bead polystyrene), injection
molding, form molding, and extrusion-blow molding (extruded foam polystyrene),
sometimes called Styrofoam, a Dow Chemical Co. trademarked form of polystyrene
foam.
“Prepared Food” shall mean any food or beverage prepared on the restaurant and/or
retail food establishment's premises using any cooking or food preparation
technique. Prepared food shall not include any raw uncooked meat, fish or eggs
unless provided for consumption without further food preparation. Prepared food
may be eaten on or off the food establishment's premises. “Restaurant” shall mean
any establishment which serves food for consumption whether on or off the
premises and which may also maintain tables for the use of its customers.
“Retail Food Establishment” shall mean any establishment which sells food for
consumption off the premises, including but not limited to grocery stores, theaters
and all other food service establishments not included in the definition of a
"Restaurant" in this section.

§157-9 Prohibition:
Expanded Polystyrene food or beverage containers shall not be used to package or
serve food or beverages by Restaurants and or/Retail Food Establishments within
the Town of Marblehead. This bylaw shall not apply to the packaging of uncooked
meat, uncooked poultry, and/or uncooked fish.

§157- 10 List of available alternatives.
Not later than sixty (60) days following approval hereof by the Attorney General,
the Board of Health shall adopt a list of available suitable affordable
biodegradable/compostable or recyclable alternatives for each product type, which
the Board of Health shall be updated regularly.

§157-11 Enforcement; violations and penalties.
A. The Board of Health, the Director of Public Health and persons designated by the
Director of Public Health shall have the authority to administer and enforce this
bylaw.




                                          16
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


B. Whoever violates any provision of this bylaw may be penalized by a non-
criminal disposition process as provided in G.L. c. 40, §21D.
C. For the first violation, the Director of Public Health or its designee, upon
determination that a violation has occurred, shall issue a written warning notice to
the establishment which will specify the violation and the appropriate penalties in
the event of future violations.
D. Thereafter, the following penalties shall apply
a.        A fine of $25 for the first violation following the issuance of a written
warning notice.
b.        A fine of $50 for the second and any other violation that occurs after the
issuance of a warning notice.
E. Fines are cumulative and each day or portion thereof shall constitute a separate
offense. If more than one, each condition violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
F. Whoever violates any provision of this bylaw may be penalized by indictment or
on complaint brought in the district court. Except as may be otherwise provided by
law and as the district court may see fit to impose, the maximum penalty for each
offense shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00).
§157-12 Severability; effective date.
A. Each section of this bylaw shall be construed as separate to the end that if any
section, sentence, clause or phrase thereof shall be held invalid for any reason, the
remainder of that bylaw and all other bylaws shall continue in full force.
B. This bylaw shall take effect twelve (12) months following the effective date of
the bylaw to allow time for Restaurants and Retail Food Establishments to use their
existing inventory of Expanded Polystyrene food or beverage containers and to
convert to alternative materials.

§157-13 Regulations
The Board of Health may adopt and periodically amend rules and regulations to
effectuate the purposes of this by-law. Prior to the adoption and subsequent
amendment to the rules and regulations, if any, the Board of Health shall hold a
public hearing. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, and of the subject
matter, sufficient for identification, shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the Town once in each of two successive weeks, the first publication
to be not less than 14 days before the day of the hearing. A copy of the adopted
regulations shall be made available at the Office of the Town Clerk and as otherwise
deemed appropriate by the Board of Health. Failure by the Board of Health to
promulgate such rules and regulations shall not have the effect of suspending or
invalidating this by-law.




                                        17
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Health

Article 30 Flood Plain Amendment
To see if the town will amend the zoning bylaw as follows:

Amend Section 200-8(C) Floodplain District. Which currently reads as follows:
Floodplain District: The Floodplain District is herein overlay district. The district
includes all special flood hazard areas within the Town of Marblehead designated as
Zone A, AE, AO, and VE on the Essex County Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA, successor to the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, HUD) for the administration
of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). The map panels of the Essex
County FIRM that are wholly or partially within the Town of Marblehead are panel
numbers       25009C0419F,       25009C0438F,       25009C0439F,     25009C0443F,
25009C0532F, 25009C0551F, and 25009C0552 dated July 3, 2012 and as may be
amended from time to time. The map indicates the one-hundred-year regulatory
floodplain. The exact boundaries of the district may be defined by the one-hundred-
year base flood elevations shown on the FIRM and further defined by the Flood
Insurance Study report dated July 3, 2012. The FIRM and Flood Insurance Study
report are on file with the Town Clerk, the Building Commissioner, and
Conservation Commission.

To read instead (bold text added) 200-8(C) Floodplain District. “The Floodplain
District is herein established as an overlay district. The district includes all special
flood hazard areas within the Town of Marblehead designated as Zone A, AE, AO,
and VE on the Essex County Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA, successor to the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development, HUD) for the administration of the National
Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). The map panels of the Essex County FIRM that
are wholly or partially within the Town of Marblehead are panel numbers
25009C0419G, 25009C0438G, 25009C0439G, 25009C0443G, 25009C0532G,
25009C0551G, and 25009C055G dated July 16, 2014 and as may be amended
from time to time. The map indicates the one-hundred-year regulatory floodplain.
The exact boundaries of the district may be defined by the one-hundred-year base
flood elevations shown on the FIRM and further defined by the Flood Insurance
Study report dated July 16, 2014. The FIRM and Flood Insurance Study report are
on file with the Town Clerk, the Building Commissioner, and Conservation
Commission.”

Or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Planning Board




                                          18
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014




Article 31 Amend Town Bylaw – Interest on Outstanding Water and Sewer
Accounts
To see if the Town will amend the Town of Marblehead General Bylaws, Chapter
63, Section 63-8, Interest on outstanding water and sewer accounts which currently
reads:

Except as otherwise provided by law, all water and sewer charges and bills shall be
due within 30 days of the date of mailing. Such charges and bills remaining unpaid
after the 90th day after mailing shall accrue interest at the rate of 14% per annum.

To read instead: (Strikeout text represents deleted language and bold and underline
font represents proposed amendment.)

Except as otherwise provided by law, all water and sewer charges and bills shall be
due within 30 days of the date of mailing. Such charges and bills remaining unpaid
after the 390th day after the mailing shall accrue interest at the rate of 14% per
annum.

Or take any action relative thereto.         Sponsored by the Water and Sewer
Commission.

Article 32 Landfill Regulatory Compliance Activities
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for continued water quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk
assessment, engineering, and any other services related to the old landfill; to
determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Health.

Article 33 Massachusetts Community Preservation Act Acceptance thereof.
To see if the Town will accept Sections 3 to 7, inclusive, of Chapter 44B of the
General Laws, otherwise known as the Massachusetts Community Preservation Act,
by approving a surcharge on real property for the purposes permitted by said Act,
including the acquisition, creation and preservation of open space, the acquisition,
creation, preservation, rehabilitation and restoration of historic resources, the
acquisition, preservation, rehabilitation and restoration of land for recreational use,
the acquisition, creation, preservation and support of community housing, and the
rehabilitation and restoration of such open space and community housing that is
acquired or created as provided under said Act; to determine the amount of such
surcharge on real property as a percentage of the annual real estate tax levy against




                                         19
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


real property and the fiscal year in which such surcharge shall commence; to
determine whether the Town will accept any of the exemptions from such surcharge
permitted under Section 3(e) of said Act; or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by Nancy Starr Campbell and others.

Article 34 Waterside Cemetery, Veterans Lot
To allow wreaths to be put on headstones and to allow in ground planting of
flowers. Or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by Rose McCarthy
and others.

Article 35 Waterside Cemetery
To allow wreaths to be put on headstones and allow in ground planting of flowers.
Or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by Rose McCarthy and others.

Article 36 Waive Permit for the Marblehead Housing Authority
That any and all building permits, plumbing permits and electrical permits be
waived for the Marblehead Housing Authority and any contractor performing work
for the Marblehead Housing Authority, for the purpose of improving the existing
conditions at its low income housing complexes for elderly, disabled, and low
income families. Or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by Pamela
Foye and others.

Article 37 Prohibit the Town from Requiring Pre-Injury Release with Certain
Provisions
The Town of Marblehead, including all of its agencies and departments, shall not
require the execution of a pre-injury release that includes any of the following
terms, nor seek to enforce any of the following terms from a pre-injury release
executed prior to the approval of this bylaw:

a.         a term releasing pre-injury claims other than negligence;
b.         a term releasing claims that do not arise out of the program or activity for
which the pre-injury release was submitted;
c.        a term releasing any individual or organization who/that is not an agent,
employee or volunteer of the Town of Marblehead involved with the program or
activity for which the pre-injury release was submitted. Or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by Terence P. Reilly and others.

Article 38 Crosswalk at Tedesco and Leggs Hill Road
The undersigned registered voters of the town of Marblehead request that an
additional crosswalk be placed on Tedesco Street, preferably near the intersection of




                                          20
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Leggs Hill Road and Tedesco Street, to assist residents of Tedesco and the many
surrounding streets in crossing this busy street. There are now two crosswalks, one
at Tedesco Country Club and one at Longview Drive. The addition of the YMCA
has created a substantial increase in foot traffic, and this, along with the regular
amount of joggers and walkers in the area, has created an unsafe situation for
residents. The YMCA had estimated a membership of approximately 8,500 when
they first opened several years ago. Currently, membership is almost doubled, at
approximately 15,000. Also, with the new Glover School now open, there is an
even greater need to provide children and families with one additional crosswalk.
The two crosswalks at the above-mentioned locations are not effectively serving the
residents of this town. We respectfully ask the town of Marblehead to appropriate
the necessary funds to provide a third crosswalk around the area of Leggs Hill Road
to resolve this problem. Thank you. Or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by Dara VanRemoortel and others.

You are hereby further required and directed to notify and warn the Inhabitants of
the Town of Marblehead aforesaid who are qualified to vote in elections and in
Town affairs to subsequently meet at the several designated polling places in their
respective precincts in said Marblehead to wit:

In Precinct 1 - Polling Place –
MASONIC TEMPLE
62 Pleasant Street
In Precinct 2 - Polling Place –
MASONIC TEMPLE
62 Pleasant Street
In Precinct 3 - Polling Place –
MASONIC TEMPLE
62 Pleasant Street
In Precinct 4 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
10 Humphrey Street
In Precinct 5 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
10 Humphrey Street
In Precinct 6 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
10 Humphrey Street




                                        21
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


on Tuesday, the 13th day of May next A.D. 2014 (it being the second Tuesday after
the first Monday in May) at 7 o’clock in the forenoon then and there to bring into
the precinct officers of their respective precincts their votes on one ballot for the
following-named Town Officers to wit:

5 Selectmen for 1 year
1 Moderator for 1 year
1 Assessor for 3 years
1 Cemetery Commissioner for 3 years
1 Board of Health for 3 years
1 Housing Authority for 5 years
2 Library Trustees for 3 years
1 Light Commissioner for 3 years
1 Light Commissioner for 1 year un-expired term
2 Planning Board for 3 years
5 Recreation and Park for 1 year
2 School Committee for 3 years
1 School Committee for a 1 year un-expired term
2 Water and Sewer for 3 years

For these purposes the polls will be open at each and all of said precincts at 7
o’clock in the forenoon and will be closed at 8 o’clock in the afternoon at each and
all of said precincts and you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested
copies thereof at Abbot Hall and ten (10) other conspicuous places in Town as
required by the Bylaws not later than thirty (30) days after being closed.

Hereof fail not and make due return of this Warrant or a certified copy thereof with
our doings thereon, to each of the several precinct wardens at the time and place of
meetings aforesaid and to the Town Clerk as soon as may be before the said
meetings.

Given under our hands at Marblehead aforesaid this 19th day of February 2014.
JACKIE BELF-BECKER, Chair
HARRY C. CHRISTENSEN, JR.
JUDITH R. JACOBI
BRET T. MURRAY
JAMES E. NYE
Selectmen of Marblehead
True Copy
Attest: Doug Perry, Constable




                                         22
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                              Town of Marblehead
                              Annual Town Meeting
                              Monday May 5, 2014

With A quorum met the Moderator called the 2014 Annual Town
Meeting to order at 7:10PM

Article 1 Pledge of Allegiance
Voted: To amend Chapter 174 of the Town Bylaws by adding a new section, 174-
14, that would require the recitation of the United States Pledge of Allegiance at the
beginning of any session of Town Meeting as follows: “§174-14 – Pledge of
Allegiance.”.

Article 2 Articles in Numerical Order
Voted: That the articles be taken up in their numerical order.

Article 3 Reports of Town Officers and Committees
Voted: To receive the report of the Town Accountant, the reports of the Town
Officers, and Special Committees.

Article 4 Assume Liability
Voted: To assume liability in the manner provided by Section 29 of Chapter 91 of
the General laws as most recently amended by Chapter 5, Acts of 1995, for all
damages that may be incurred by work to be performed by the Department of
Public Works of Massachusetts for the improvement, development, maintenance
and protection of tidal and non tidal rivers and streams, harbors, tidewaters,
foreshores and shores along a public beach in accordance with Section II of Chapter
91 of the General Laws and authorize the Selectmen to execute and deliver a bond
of indemnity therefor to the Commonwealth.

Article 5 Accept Trust Property
Voted: That the Town shall credit all interest earned on the Elaine Hoff Sorensen
Trust Fund created by a gift to the Abbot Public Library in the amount of $150,000
on June 27, 2013.

Article 6 Lease Town Property
Voted: To allow the Board of Selectmen and School Committee to let or lease such
land, buildings or structures owed by the Town on such terms as they may
determine.




                                         23
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Article 7 Unpaid Accounts
Voted: To authorize the payment of $570.00 for the payment of any unpaid
accounts brought forward from previous years from the following grants, capital
funds, revolving funds or Article 26, May 2013 Annual Town Meeting – Expenses
of Several Departments as follows:

        Article 39, 2011 Glover School Construction          $210.00
        School Lunch Fund                                     110.00
        METCO Grant                                           250.00
                                                             $570.00

Article 8 Revolving Funds
Voted: To continue the authorization of the following revolving funds as required
by M.G.L. C.44, s.53E 1/2 as recommended by the Board of Selectmen.

1. Historical Commission Gift Shop Revolving Fund in the amount of $13,000 in
fiscal 2015 for the use of the Historical Commission to be taken from Historical
Commission revenues from the sale of items at the gift shop operated by said
commission; said appropriation to be used for expenses of operating said gift shop;
and expended by the Commission.
2. Recreation and Park Revolving Fund in the amount of $300,000 in fiscal 2015
for the use of the Recreation and Park Commission to be taken from revenues in
connection with recreation programs and activities including teen center, program
fees, rentals, miscellaneous sales, promotional fees, $5.00 of out of town parking
fees charged on weekends and various recreational fund raising events; said
appropriation to be used for the expense of said activities including equipment and
promotions; and expended by the Commission.
3. Council on Aging Revolving Fund in the amount of $250,000 in fiscal 2015 for
the use of the Council on Aging Board of Directors to be taken from revenues in
connection with the meals on wheels, and nutrition programs, mini-bus donations,
trips, miscellaneous programs, instructional classes, recreational programs, games
and tournaments, luncheons and entertainment, and other activities including
program fees, fund raising, rentals, miscellaneous sales and promotional fees; said
appropriation to be used for the expense of said activities and trips, including
equipment and promotions; and expended by the Council on Aging Board of
Directors.
4. Dog Officer/Animal Control Officer Revolving Fund in the amount of $20,000
in fiscal 2015 for the use of the Dog Officer to be taken from revenues in
connection with fees, reimbursements, deposits and refunds of animal medical
expenses including spay and neuter expenses, miscellaneous other sales and various




                                        24
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


fund raising events; said appropriation to be used for the expense of said programs
and activities including medical bills, animal food, pet supplies and equipment, and
promotional expenses; and expended by the Dog Officer/ Animal Control Officer.
5. RAD Program Revolving Fund in the amount of $7,500 in fiscal 2015 for the
use of the Police Chief to be taken from revenues in connection with tuition, fees,
reimbursements, miscellaneous sales, gifts and donations of the RAD program; said
appropriation to be used for the expense of said program including salaries and
expenses including equipment.
6. School Tuition Revolving Fund in the amount of $46,500 in fiscal 2015 for the
use of the School Committee to be taken from revenues in connection with tuition's
from nonimmigrant foreign students; said appropriation to be used for the expenses
of instruction including salaries, instructional supplies and equipment.
7. Commercial Waste Revolving Fund in the amount of $450,000 in fiscal 2015
for the use of the Board of Health to be taken from revenues in connection with
commercial waste disposal receipts; said fund to be expended for the cost of solid
waste disposal.
8. Conservation Fines Revolving Fund in the amount of $10,000 in fiscal 2015 for
the use of the Conservation Commission to be taken from revenues in connection
with receipts collected from fines assessed by the commission; said fund to be
expended for remediation of wetlands violations and for the care and maintenance
of lands under the control and jurisdiction of the Conservation Commission.
9. Sump Pump Improvement Revolving Fund in the amount of $25,000 in fiscal
2015 for the use of the Sewer and Water Commission; to be taken from revenues in
connection with receipts collected from money received as a result of permitting
fees; said fund to be expended for the aid in removal of sump pumps currently tied
into the sewer system.
10. Special Education Revolving Fund in the amount of $500,000 in fiscal 2015 for
the use of the School Committee; revenues to be taken from tuition collected for
special education students tuitioned in to the Marblehead Public Schools and from
funds collected to pay for the other special education contracted services for out of
district special education students being provided service through the North Shore
Special Education Consortium and other approved special education public and
private placements; said funds to be expended on costs directly related to the special
education programs provided to these out of district students.
11. Storm Water By-Law Revolving Fund in the amount of $10,000 in fiscal 2015
for the use of the conservation Commission; to be taken from revenues in
connection with receipts collected from application fees associated with the town’s
storm water management and erosion control regulations; said funds to be expended
for expenses related to the enforcement and administration of the Storm water By-
Law.




                                         25
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



ARTICLE 9 Walls and Fences
Voted: That $7,500.00 is appropriated for the construction and reconstruction of
walls and fences for the protection of highways and property, including engineering
services in connection therewith; and that the Board of Selectmen is authorized to
acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any land or easement necessary
therefor.

Article 10 Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
Voted: That the sum of $424,615.00 be appropriated, and to meet this
appropriation; $45,000.00 is to be transferred from Sewer Retained Earnings and
$379,615.00 is to be raised by taxation. To include the following:

Waste Collection Department                  Park Department
1 Hauling Tractor                            1 Plow
                                             1 Loader Tractor

Highway Department                           School
1 Dump Truck                                 1 Passenger Van
1 Pick-up Truck w/plow
  Loader Tires

Sewer Department                             Police
1 Generator (1)                              Police Vehicles

    (1)From Sewer Retained Earnings

Article 11 Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
Voted: That the sum of $285,474.00 be appropriated. $260,000.00 to be raised by
taxation and $25,474.00 to be taken from the sale of lots fund.

Abbot Library                                Old Town House
Cupola Repair                                Paint Exterior

Tower Way Garage                             Fire Department
Replace 2 Door Lift Motors                   Exterior Painting
Replace Heating Unit                         Replace Windows

Multiple Buildings                           Park & Recreation
Replace Defibrillators                       Repair Storage Areas




                                        26
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Upgrade Lighting                            Divider for Game Room

Traffic Signals                             Schools
34 LED Traffic Lights                       Security & Safety Initiatives
Replace Terminal Box Hewitt St              Bell School Carpet
Various Traffic Light Equipment             HVAC Upgrades All Buildings
Cemetery (1)
12 Ft. Ramps
Water System Upgrade

1 Sale of Lots

Article 12 Water Department Construction
Voted: That the sum of $877,700.00 is appropriated from water retained earnings
to be expended by the Water and Sewer Commission for the construction,
reconstruction and extending of water mains, replacement of water meters,
appurtenances, engineering, consultants, surveys including revenue studies, and
other general Water Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of Water and
Sewer Commissioners to acquire by purchase eminent domain or otherwise any
lands or easements necessary.

Article 13 Sewer Department Construction
Voted: that the sum of $631,237.00 is appropriated from sewer retained earnings to
be expended by the Water and Sewer Commission for the construction or
reconstruction of sewers for sanitary purposes and for sewage disposal, pump
stations, original pumping station equipment, metering equipment, safety
equipment, replacement of said equipment, engineering, consultants and surveys
including revenue studies, and other general Sewer Department purposes, and to
authorize the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by purchase,
eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements necessary.

Article 14 Storm Drainage Construction
Voted: That $324,000.00 is appropriated from taxation for the construction,
reconstruction, permitting and maintenance of storm sewers for surface drainage
purposes, including engineering services in connection therewith, to authorize the
appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise,
any land or easement necessary; to be expended by the Water and Sewer
Commission.

Article 15 Water and Sewer Commission Claims




                                       27
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Voted: To authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the Board of Selectmen
acting jointly to compromise any claims for damages or suits pending against the
Town of Marblehead on the account of acts which may have occurred during the
construction of the Water, sewer and storm water system.

Article 16 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Administrative)
Voted: To amend the Classification and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job
titles where indicated and reclassify certain positions in the Administrative Pay
Schedule; to waive Section 8 of the 1955 Salary By-Law as last amended, by
striking out the pay schedule as it relates to administrative personnel, substitute in
place thereof the following new pay schedule as it relates to said personnel:

                            ADMINISTRATIVE SALARY SCHEDULE
                                      Effective July 1, 2014 - 1%
 Grad
 e       Title                                   Step 1     Step 2    Step 3    Step 4    Step 5
 59      Town Administrator                      1783.81    1931.51   2079.20   2226.86   2374.54
 58                                              1605.76    1738.89   1872.01   2005.14   2138.26
 57      Dir Finance/Town Accountant             1446.02    1565.86   1685.62   1805.47   1925.27
         Police Chief
         Fire Chief
         Supt Water/Sewer
 56      Assistant Assessor                      1299.62    1407.75   1515.93   1624.09   1732.26
         Director Public Health
         Director Library
 55      Harbormaster                            1169.80    1267.15   1364.51   1461.85   1559.20
         Supt Recreation/Park
         Building Commissioner
         Director Public Works
         Assistant Supt Water/Sewer
         Engineering & Conservation Adm
         Assistant Director Accounting
         Director Council on Aging
         Town Planner
 54      Assistant Director Revenue              1053.31    1140.25   1227.23   1314.18   1401.12




                                                28
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


        Assistant Director Library
        Asst Director/Public Works
        Public Health Nurse
        Plumbing Inspector
        Wire Inspector
53      Superintendent Cemetery                948.47     1026.69    1104.90   1183.13   1261.32
        Local Inspector Building
        Recreation Supervisor
        Assistant Wire Inspector
        Office Manager Sewer/Water
        Payroll Administrator
        Asst Director/Tree Warden
52      Assistant Revenue Officer              890.23     951.81     1013.36   1074.96   1136.50
        Health Inspector
        Veterans Agent/Sealer
        Assistant Harbormaster
        Accounting & Website Assistant
        Administrative Aid Selectmen
51      Dog Officer                            845.30     900.22     955.14    1010.06   1064.98
        Accounting Assistant
50      Administrative Clerk                   760.46     812.07     863.61    915.21    966.83
49                                             685.57     731.74     777.92    824.08    870.30




                            ADMINISTRATIVE SALARY SCHEDULE
                           Effective June 30, 2015 - .5% (No-Cost Impact)
Grade   Title                                  Step 1    Step 2     Step 3     Step 4    Step 5
59      Town Administrator                     1792.73   1941.17    2089.60    2237.99   2386.42
58                                             1613.79   1747.58    1881.37    2015.16   2148.95
57      Dir Finance/Town Accountant            1453.25   1573.69    1694.05    1814.50   1934.90
        Police Chief
        Fire Chief




                                               29
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


     Supt Water/Sewer
56   Assistant Assessor               1306.12   1414.79   1523.51   1632.21   1740.93
     Director Public Health
     Director Library
55   Harbormaster                     1175.65   1273.48   1371.34   1469.16   1567.00
     Supt Recreation/Park
     Building Commissioner
     Director Public Works
     Assistant Supt Water/Sewer
     Engineering & Conservation Adm
     Assistant Director Accounting
     Director Council on Aging
     Town Planner
54   Assistant Director Revenue       1058.58   1145.95   1233.37   1320.75   1408.12
     Assistant Director Library
     Asst Director/Public Works
     Public Health Nurse
     Plumbing Inspector
     Wire Inspector
53   Superintendent Cemetery          953.21    1031.82   1110.42   1189.04   1267.63
     Local Inspector Building
     Recreation Supervisor
     Assistant Wire Inspector
     Office Manager Sewer/Water
     Payroll Administrator
     Asst Director/Tree Warden
52   Assistant Revenue Officer        894.68    956.57    1018.43   1080.33   1142.18
     Health Inspector
     Veterans Agent/Sealer
     Assistant Harbormaster
     Accounting & Website Assistant
     Administrative Aid Selectmen




                                      30
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



 51      Dog Officer                     849.53   904.72   959.91     1015.11   1070.31
         Accounting Assistant
 50      Administrative Clerk            764.26   816.13   867.93     919.79    971.66
 49                                      689.00   735.40   781.81     828.20    874.66

Article 17 Proposed Pay Schedule and Reclassification (Traffic Supervisors)
Voted: To increase the pay for Marblehead Traffic Supervisors, 1% effective July
1, 2014 and .5% effective June 30, 2015(no cost impact in FY15)

 Article 18 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Seasonal and
Temporary Personnel)
Voted: To waive section 8 of the 1955 Salary By-Laws as last amended by Striking
out the pay schedules as they relate to Seasonal and Temporary Personnel and
Substitute in place thereof the following new pay schedules as they relate to said
employees.

                   SEASONAL PERSONNEL PAY SCHEDULE
                              Effective July 1, 2014 -1%
GP    TITLE                                  DEPT          1        2         3
27    Sr Seasonal Harbor Asst          HM                704.92   748.94   793.03
26                                                       661.63   702.99   744.31
25    Beach Supervisor                 Rec/Park          619.89   658.41   697.17
      Recreation Program Director      Rec/Park
      Park Police                      Rec/Park
24    Summer Acct Assistant            Finance           582.78   619.89   657.00
      Summer Programmer Asst           Finance
      Seasonal Harbor Asst             HM
23    Summer Acct Trainee              Finance           548.74   583.15   617.55
      Summer Programmer Trainee        Finance
      General Laborer III              Hwy/PW/Waste
      Recreation Specialist            Rec/Park
      Recreation Leader, Sailing       Rec/Park
22    General Laborer B                Sewer/Water       527.16   553.78   580.48
      Recreation Leader                Rec/Park
      Lifeguard                        Rec/Park
      Seasonal Custodian               Public Bld/Insp
21    Seasonal Laborer                 Cemetery          517.86   537.16   556.50
      General Laborer B                Health
      Data Entry Clerk                 Public Bldg/Insp
20    Summer Clerical                  Finance           507.06   513.23   519.40
      Beach Maintenance Person         Rec/Park




                                         31
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


     Forestry Worker              Rec/Park/Tree
     Grounds Caretaker            Rec/Park/Tree
     Recreational Instructor      Rec/Park
     Seasonal Labor               Rec/Park/Tree

2    General Labor C                                 481.74     503.41
B    Custodian                    Lib                379.33     398.28     418.29
     Summer Asst                  Dog Off

                  SEASONAL PERSONNEL PAY SCHEDULE
                  Effective June 30, 2015 -.5%(No-Cost Impact)
GP   TITLE                               DEPT           1      2             3
27   Sr Seasonal Harbor Asst        HM               708.45 752.68       797.00
26                                                   664.94 706.50       748.03
25   Beach Supervisor               Rec/Park         622.99 661.70       700.66
     Recreation Program Director    Rec/Park
     Park Police                    Rec/Park
24   Summer Acct Assistant          Finance          585.69 622.99       660.28
     Summer Programmer Asst         Finance
     Seasonal Harbor Asst           HM
23   Summer Acct Trainee            Finance          551.49 586.07       620.63
     Summer Programmer Trainee Finance
     General Laborer III            Hwy/PW/Waste
     Recreation Specialist          Rec/Park
     Recreation Leader, Sailing     Rec/Park
22   General Laborer B              Sewer/Water      529.80 556.55       583.38
     Recreation Leader              Rec/Park
     Lifeguard                      Rec/Park
     Seasonal Custodian             Public Bld/Insp
21   Seasonal Laborer               Cemetery         520.45 539.85       559.29
     General Laborer B              Health
     Data Entry Clerk               Public Bldg/Insp
20   Summer Clerical                Finance          509.59 515.80       522.00
     Beach Maintenance Person       Rec/Park
     Forestry Worker                Rec/Park/Tree
     Grounds Caretaker              Rec/Park/Tree
     Recreational Instructor        Rec/Park
     Seasonal Labor                 Rec/Park/Tree

2    General Labor C                               484.15     505.93
B    Custodian                   Lib               381.23     400.28     420.38
     Summer Asst                 Dog Off




                                       32
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



                           TEMPORARY PERSONNEL PAY SCHEDULE
                                EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2014 – 1%
GP   TITLE                    DEPT             1          2     3                4        5
26   Heavy Equipment Operator Hwy, HM, Waste 688.49    728.88 769.29           809.68   842.08
25   Senior Clerk             Finance        619.89    658.53 697.17           735.82   774.47
24   General Clerk             Assr,Sel,Fire        582.78   619.89   657.00   694.10   731.17
     Vol/Comm Res Coord        COA
     Prgm/Vol Coord            Library
     E-911 Dispatch            Sel
23   Special Clerk-Rev         Finance              548.74   583.15   617.55   651.94   686.36
     Genearl Laborer III       Health
22                                                  527.16   553.78   580.48   607.09   633.81
21   Temporary Labor           Cem, COA             517.86   537.16   556.50   575.84   595.16
     Temp Special Labor I      Library
20                                                  507.06   513.23   519.40   525.60   531.76
14   Sr Staff Engineer         Eng                  720.39   753.94   789.22   826.27   865.12
13   Tech Ser Librarian        Lib                  688.43   720.39   753.94   789.22   826.27
     Adult Librarian           Lib
     Child Librarian           Lib
     Young Adult Librarian     Lib
12   Asst Dog Officer          Pol-Dog Off          658.04   688.43   720.39   753.94   789.22
11   Sanitarian                Hlth                 628.96   658.04   688.43   720.39   753.94
10                                                  601.41   628.96   658.02   688.43   720.39
9    Special Labor C           Lib                  575.07   601.41   628.96   658.04   688.43
     Library Para-Prof         Lib
8                                                   549.97   575.07   601.41   628.96   658.04
7    Special Clerk             Hlth, Assr           549.97   575.07   601.41   628.96
                               Cem, Swr/Wtr
     Library Tech              Lib
     Lib Tech or Tec Adm       Lib
6    Chauffeur                 COA                  549.97   575.07   601.41
5    Sr. Library Asst          Library              549.97   575.07
     Genearl Clerk             Finance
4                                                   526.05   575.02
3    Unclassified Labor                             503.41   526.05
     Data Entry Oper           Public Bld/Insp
2    Library Assistant         Library        481.74    503.41
1    Temporary Clerk                          461.15    481.74
                           TEMPORARY PERSONNEL PAY SCHEDULE
                       EFFECTIVE JUNE 30, 2015 – 0.5% ( No-Cost Impact)
GP   TITLE                    DEPT               1         2        3            4        5
26   Heavy Equipment Operator Hwy, HM, Waste  691.93    732.52    773.14       813.73   846.29
25   Senior Clerk             Finance         622.99    661.82    700.66       739.50   778.34
24   General Clerk             Assr,Sel,Fire        585.69   622.99   660.28   697.57   734.82
     Vol/Comm Res Coord        COA
     Prgm/Vol Coord            Library
     E-911 Dispatch            Sel
23   Special Clerk-Rev         Finance              551.49   586.07   620.63   655.20   689.79
     Genearal Laborer III      Health
22                                                  529.80   556.55   583.38   610.13   636.98
21   Temporary Labor           Cem, COA             520.45   539.85   559.29   578.72   598.13
     Temp Special Labor I      Library
20                                                  509.59   515.80   522.00   528.23   534.42
14   Sr Staff Engineer         Eng                  723.99   757.71   793.17   830.40   869.45




                                               33
                             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


   13    Tech Ser Librarian         Lib                691.88   723.99   757.71   793.17    830.40
         Adult Librarian            Lib
         Child Librarian            Lib
         Young Adult Librarian      Lib
   12    Asst Dog Officer           Pol-Dog Off        661.33   691.88   723.99   757.71    793.17
   11    Sanitarian                 Hlth               632.10   661.33   691.88   723.99    757.71
   10                                                  604.41   632.10   661.32   691.88    723.99
   9     Special Labor C            Lib                577.95   604.41   632.10   661.33    691.88
         Library Para-Prof          Lib
   8                                                   552.72   577.95   604.41   632.10    661.33
   7     Special Clerk              Hlth, Assr         552.72   577.95   604.41   632.10
                                    Cem, Swr/Wtr
         Library Tech               Lib
         Lib Tech or Tec Adm        Lib
   6     Chauffeur                  COA                552.72   577.95   604.41
   5     Sr. Library Asst           Library            552.72   577.95
         Genearl Clerk              Finance
   4                                                   528.68   552.72
   3     Unclassified Labor                            505.93   528.68
         Data Entry Oper            Public Bld/Insp
   2     Library Assistant          Library            484.15   505.93
   1     Temporary Clerk                               463.46   484.15



Article 19 Compensation - Town Officers
Voted: That the yearly compensation of the Town Officer named in this article be
as follows:
                         Town Clerk              $73,138.46

Said amount to be in full compensation for services as Town Clerk. All fees
received by the Town Clerk in his official capacity to be accounted for to the Town
Revenue Officer.

That the Town Clerk as elected and having served in that position or as a Regular
full-time employee for five consecutive years, and for each applicable additional
five years on such basis, shall be paid longevity pay annually, in addition to her
weekly salary.

Eligibility will be determined on November 30 each year and payment made to the
official with the first regular payroll of December of that year. Only those in office
on the determination date and qualified by their consecutive years of service, as
described above, shall receive longevity pay for the calendar year.

                                 Annual longevity for Town Clerk

                                 Pay Schedule
                                 Not less than 5 years                            $300.00




                                                  34
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                         Not less than 10 years                  400.00
                         Not less than 15 years                  500.00
                         Not less than 20 years                  600.00
                         Not less than 25 years                  700.00
                         30 years and over                       800.00

Article 20 Financial Assistance for Conservation
Voted: To Authorize the Conservation Commission and other proper officers of the
Town to Apply for financial assistance from public and private sources to be
expended by the Conservation Commission for the Purchase of vacant land and any
other purpose authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General Laws as
amended, or to reimburse the town for sums of money expended for such purposes,
or both.

Article 21 Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District
Voted: To approve the gross operating and maintenance budget of the Essex North
Shore Agricultural and Technical School District and appropriate the sum of
$225,411.00 for the town’s assessment of the same to be expended by the School
Committee.

Article 22 Available Funds Appropriate to Reduce Tax Rate
Voted: That the Sum of $4,830,000.00 be appropriated for the use of the Assessors
in making the Tax Rate.

                         From Free Cash             $4,500,000.00
                         From Electric Surplus         330,000.00
                                                   $ 4,830,000.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Item 1 Moderator
Voted: That the sum of $100.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Moderator as
Follows:

        Item 1 Officials Expense                   $100.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Items 2 3 4 5 6 Selectmen
Voted: That the sum of $451,002.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the
Selectmen as follows:

        Item 2 Officials Expense                   $ 5,500.00
        Item 3 Salaries & Wages                     344,589.00




                                       35
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


        Item 4 Expense                              91,913.00
        Item 5 Zoning Board Legal Services           7,000.00
        Item 6 Out of State Travel                   2,000.00
                                                   $451.002.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Items 7 8 9 Finance Committee
Voted: That the Sum of $14,494.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Finance
Committee as follows:
         Item 7 Salaries & Wages                  $8,734.00
         Item 8 Expense                             5,585.00
         Item 9 Local Travel                          175.00
                                                 $14,494.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Item 10 Reserve Fund
Voted: that the sum of $144,000.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the reserve
fund.

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Items 12 13 Finance Department
Voted: that the sum of $901,336.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Finance
Department as follows:

        Item 12 Salaries & Wages                   $633,026.00
        Item 13 Expense                             268,310.00
                                                   $901,336.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Items 17 18 19 20 Assessor
Voted: That the sum of $297,329.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Assessor
as follows:

        Item 17 Official Expense                       $300.00
        Item 18 Salaries & Wages                     192,844.00
        Item 19 Expenses                             103,785.00
        Item 20 Local Travel                            400.00
                                                    $297,329.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Items 29 30 Town Counsel
Voted: That the Sum of $81,725.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Town
Counsel as Follows:




                                       36
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


        Item 29 Salaries & Wages            $2,000.00
        Item 30 Expense                     79,725.00
                                           $81,725.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Item 35 Parking
Voted; That the sum of $10,484.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Parking
Clerk Department as follows:

        Item 35 Expense                    $10,484.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Items 39 40 Town Clerk
Voted: That the Sum of $173,397.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Town
Clerk as follows:
         Item 39 Salaries & Wages       $164,360.00
         Item 40 Expense                   9,037.00
                                        $173,397.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Items 43 44 Election and
Registration
Voted: That the sum of $44,615.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Election
and Registration as follows:

        Item 43 Salaries & Wages           $22,750.00
        Item 44 Expense                     21,865.00
                                           $44,615.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Item 50 Planning Board
Voted: That the Sum of $1,675.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Election
and Registration as follows:

        Item 50 Expense                    $1,675.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Items 55 56 57 Public Buildings
Voted: That the Sum of $195,295.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Public
Buildings as follows:

        Item 55 Salaries & Wages            $93,795.00
        Item 56 Expense                     101,100.00
        Item 57 Local Travel                  400.00
                                           $195,295.00




                                      37
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Item 59 Town Report
Voted: That the sum of $4,300.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Town
Report to be expanded by The Board of Selectmen.

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Item 60 Town Audit
Voted: That the Sum of $43,000.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Town
Audit to be expended by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Items 62 63 64 Police
Department
Voted: That the Sum of $3,401,908.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Police
Department as follows:

        Item 62 Salaries & Wages                   $3,221,009.00
        Item 63 Expense                               175,899.00
        Item 64 Indemnification of Officers             5,000.00
                                                     $341,908.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Items 68 69 70 Fire Department
Voted: That the Sum of $3,317,503.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Fire
Department as Follows:

        Item 68 Salaries & Wages                    $3,068,383.00
        Item 69 Expense                                164,920.00
        Item 70 Fire Alarm Expense                      84,200.00
                                                    $3,317,503.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Items 73 74 75 Building
Inspection
Voted:     That the Sum of $499,365.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the
Building inspection as follows:

        Item 73 Salaries & Wages                    $474,510.00
        Item 74 Expense                                21,355.00
        Item 75 Local Travel                            3,500.00
                                                     $499,365.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Item 80 Sealer of Weight and
Measurers




                                       38
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Voted: That the sum of $250.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Sealer of
Weights and Measures as Follows:

         Item 80 Expense                              $250.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Item 86 Animal Inspector
Voted: That the sum of $2,400.00 be and herby is appropriated for the Animal
Inspector as follows:

         Item 86 Salaries                             $2,400.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Item 101 School Department
Voted: That the Sum of $31,787,615.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the
School Department.

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Items 105 106 Engineer
Voted: That the sum of $136,792.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Engineer
as follows:

         Item 105 Salaries & Wages                    $126,147.00
         Item 106 Expense                                10,645.00
                                                      $136,792.00
         To meet this appropriation $6,000 is to be transferred from Wetland filing
         fees and $130,792.00 is to be taken from Taxation.

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Items 112 113 Highway
Voted: That the sum of $863,963.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Highway
as follows:

         Item 112 Salaries & Wages                    $774,679.00
         Item 113 Expense                               89,284.00
                                                      $863,963.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Item 116 Maintain Streets &
Sidewalks
Voted: That the Sum of $33,750.00 be and hereby is appropriated to maintain
streets and sidewalks and said work to be done under the direction of the Director of
Public Works and said sum of money to be expended by the Director of Public
Works.




                                        39
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Item 117 Snow Removal
Voted: That the sum of $100,000.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the use of
the Director of Public Works to cover all expenses incidental to snow removal.

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Item 118 Street Lighting
Voted: That the sum of $128,820.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Street
Lighting in accordance with Section 58, Chapter 164 of the Massachusetts General
Laws.

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Items 126 127 Waste Collection
Voted: That the sum of $2,030,485.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the
Waste Collection as follows:

        Item 126 Salaries & Wages                    $305,662.00
        Item 127 Expense                            1,724,823.00
                                                   $2,030,485.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Items 132 133 Drains
Voted: That the sum of $110,165.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Drains
as follows:
         Item 132        Salaries                $105,015.00
         Item 133        Expense                    5,150.00
                                                 $110,165.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Items 141 142 143 Cemetery
Voted: That the sum of $332,297.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the
Cemetery as follows:

        Item 141 Officials Expense                     $300.00
        Item 142 Salaries & Wages                   310,151.00
        Item 143 Expenses                            21,846.00
                                                   $332,297.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Items 148 149 Tree
Voted: That the sum of $304,214.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Tree
Department as follows:

        Item 148 Salaries & Wages                  $252,636.00
        Item 149 Expense                             51,578.00
                                                   $304,214.00




                                      40
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Items 153 154 155 157 158
Health Department
Voted: That the sum of $157,316.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Health
Department as follows:

        Item 153 Officials Expense                 $ 400.00
        Item 154 Salaries & Wages                   138,229.00
        Item 155 Expense                             13,055.00
        Item 157 Local Travel                         1,632.00
        Item 158 HAWC                                 4,000.00
                                                   $157,316.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Item 162 Mental Health
Voted: That the sum of $60,000.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Mental
Health Department as follows:

        Item 162 Contractual Services              $60,000.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Items 164 165 Council on Aging
Voted: That the sum of $251,049.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Council
on Aging as follows:

        Item 164 Salaries & Wages                  $247,590.00
        Item 165 Expense                              3,459.00
                                                   $251,049.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Items 175 176 177 178 Veterans
Benefits
Voted: That the sum of $81,569.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Veterans
Benefits as follows:

        Item 175 Salaries & Wages                  $60,226.00
        Item 176 Expense                             1,243.00
        Item 177 Local Travel                        1,100.00
        Item 178 Benefits                           19,000.00
                                                   $81,569.00




                                        41
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Items 185 186 187 Library
Voted: That the sum of $1,042,060.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Abbot
Public Library as follows:

        Item 185 Salaries & Wages                  $ 787,914.00
        Item 186 Expense                             254,046.00
        Item 187 Local Travel                            100.00
                                                   $1,042,060.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Items 190 191 192 Park
Department
Voted: That the sum of $798,182.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Park and
Recreation as follows:

        Item 190 Salaries & Wages                  $ 580,499.00
        Item 191 Expense                             171,590.00
        Item 192 Facility Expense                     46,093.00
                                                   $ 798,182.00

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Item 210 Memorial & Veterans
Day
Voted: That the sum of $5,650.00 be and hereby is appropriated for Memorial and
Veterans Day, said sum of money to be expended by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Items 214 215 Maturing Bonds
and Interest
Voted: That the sum of $5,500,005.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the
Maturing Bonds and Interest as follows:

        Item 214 Maturing Debt                      $3,242,150.00
        Item 215 Interest                            2,257,855.00
                                                    $5,500,005.00

To meet this appropriation $582,442.00 is to be transferred from Bond Premium
reserved for appropriation and $4,917,563.00 is to be raised by taxation.

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Item 217 Contributory
Retirement
Voted: That the sum of $2,189,382.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the
Contributory Retirement Fund.




                                       42
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Item 218 Medicare
Voted: That the sum of $570,000.00 be and hereby is appropriated for Medicare, to
be expended by the Finance Director.

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments – Item 219 Workmen’s
Compensation
Voted: That the sum of $315,000.00 be and hereby is appropriated to be added to
the Workmen’s Compensation Trust Fund (and allowed to accumulate from year to
year) to be expended by the Finance Director to pay expenses of Workmen’s
Compensation.

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Item 220 Other Post
Employment Benefits
Voted: That the sum of $250,000.00 be and hereby is appropriated to be added to
the Other Post Employment Benefits Trust Fund (and allowed to accumulate from
year to year) to be expended by the Finance Director.

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Item 221 Group Insurance
Voted: That the sum of $11,581,448.00 be and hereby is appropriated for Group
Insurance to be expended by the Finance Director.

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Item 222 Other Insurance
Voted: That the sum of $503,057.00 be and hereby is appropriated for Other
Insurance, to be expended by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Item 223 Salary Reserve
Voted: That the sum of $110,770.00 be and hereby is appropriated for Salary
Reserve, to be expended by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Item 224 Non Contributory
Retirement
Voted: That the sum of $113,896.00 be and hereby is appropriated for Non
Contributory Retirement, to be expended by the Finance Director/Town
Accountant.

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Item 225 Energy Reserve
Voted: That the sum of $533,544.00 be and hereby is appropriated for Energy
Reserve, to be expended by the Board of Selectmen.




                                       43
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Items 227 228 230 Sewer
Department
Voted: That the sum of $4,930,034.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Sewer
Department as follows:

         Item 227 Salaries & Wages                    $ 662,210.00
         Item 228 Expense                              617,906.00
         Item 230 South Essex Sewer District           3,649,918.00
                                                      $4,930,034.00

To meet this appropriation, $4,930,034.00 is to be transferred from sewer receipts.

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Items 231 232 235 Water
Department
Voted: That the sum of $3,392,420.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Water
Department as follows:

         Item 231 Salaries & Wages                    $ 611,736.00
         Item 232 Expense                                577,658.00
         Item 235 Metropolitan Water                   2,203,026.00
                                                      $3,392,420.00

To meet this appropriation, $3,392,420.00 is to be transferred from water receipts.

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Item 236 Municipal Light
Department
Voted: That the income from sales of electricity to private consumers, from
electricity supplied to municipal buildings and electricity supplied for municipal
power during the current fiscal year be appropriated for the Municipal Light Plant,
the whole to be expended by the manager of the Municipal Lighting Plant, under the
direction and control of the Municipal Light Board for the expense of the plant for
said fiscal year as defined in Section 57 of Chapter 164 of the General Laws; and
said Municipal Light Board is hereby further authorized to pay from income of the
plant for the fiscal year such amounts as may be expended for extensions,
reconstruction enlargements, or additions and sell or trade apparatus that has worn
out its usefulness and is unfit for requirements during the fiscal year.

Article 23 Expenses of Several Departments - Items 238 239 241 Harbor
Department




                                         44
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Voted: That the sum of $766,581.00 be and hereby is appropriated for the Harbor
Department as follows:

         Item 238 Salaries & Wages                      $330,018.00
         Item 239 Expense                                358,063.00
         Item 241 Outlays                                 78,500.00
                                                        $766,581.00

To meet this appropriation, $688,081.00 is to be transferred from harbor receipts
and $78,500.00 to be transferred from Harbor Retained Earnings.

Article 24 Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
Voted: That this article be indefinitely postponed.
Article 25 Mooring Fees in Marblehead Waters.
Voted: To amend Chapter 190, Section 190-5 which currently reads:

The Harbormaster shall collect from the applicant a mooring permit fee of $6.50 per
foot for Marblehead Harbor, Little Harbor, and Dolibers Cove. All other locations
in Marblehead anchorage shall be assessed $4 per foot. Working commercial
fishermen shall have their permit fee abated to a rate of $3 per foot upon approval of
the Harbormaster. Such fee shall be assessed on a per-foot basis, measured from the
stem in a straight line aft to the stem of the vessel. Booms, boomkins or pulpits are
exempt from the measurement. The minimum mooring permit fee shall be $10. The
mooring permit fee for a float shall also be assessed on $6.50 per lineal foot basis of
the overall length. Said fee shall be collected before a mooring permit is issued. All
fees collected by the Harbormaster shall be paid to the Town of Marblehead. All
permits shall expire on the first day of February following the year of issue.

To read instead (Strikeout text represents deleted language and bold and underline
font represents proposed amendment.):

The Harbormaster shall collect from the applicant a mooring permit fee of $6.50 per
foot for Marblehead Harbor, Little Harbor, and Dolibers Cove. All other locations
in Marblehead anchorage shall be assessed $ 5.50 per foot. Working commercial
fishermen shall have their permit fee abated to a rate of $3.00 per foot upon
approval of the Harbormaster. Such fee shall be assessed on a per-foot basis,
measured from the stem in a straight line aft to the stem of the vessel. Booms,
boomkins or pulpits are exempt from the measurement. The minimum mooring
permit fee shall be $10.00 the mooring permit fee for a float shall also be assessed
on $6.50 per lineal foot basis of the overall length. Said fee shall be collected before




                                          45
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


a mooring permit is issued. All fees collected by the Harbormaster shall be paid to
the Town of Marblehead. All permits shall expire on the first day of February
following the year of issue.

Article 26 Acquisition of Property: 89 Front Street
Voted: That this article be indefinitely postponed.

Article 27 Acquisition of Property: 247 Pleasant Street
Voted: That this article be indefinitely postponed.

Article 28 Amend The Town of Marblehead General Bylaws by adding a new
Chapter 157 Environmental Hazards: Reduction of Waste, Article I: Plastic
Bag Reduction
Voted: To amendment the Town of Marblehead General Bylaws by adding a new
CHAPTER 157 entitled, Environmental Hazards: Reduction of Waste, Article I:
Plastic Bag Reduction, regarding the prohibition of the distribution and use of thin-
film, single-use plastic carryout bags by retail establishments in the Town of
Marblehead as follows:

Chapter 157: Environmental Hazards: Reduction of Waste

Article 1 Plastic Bag Reduction
§157-1 Purpose
The production and use of thin-film, single-use checkout bags have been shown to
have significant detrimental impacts on the environment, including, but not limited
to, contributing to the potential death of marine animals through ingestion and
entanglement; contributing to pollution of the land environment; creating a burden
to solid waste collection and recycling facilities; clogging storm drainage systems;
and requiring the use of millions of barrels of crude oil nationally for their
manufacture. The purpose of this bylaw is to eliminate the usage of thin-film,
single-use plastic bags by all retail establishments in the Town of Marblehead
thereby promoting the health and safety of the citizens of the Town through the
preservation of the environment.
§157-2: Definitions
The following words shall, unless context clearly indicates otherwise, have the
following meanings:
“ASTM D6400”, the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM)
International “Standard Specification for Compostable Plastics” which includes
those plastics and products made from plastics that are designed to be composted
under aerobic conditions in municipal and industrial aerobic composting facilities.




                                        46
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


“ASTM D7081”, ASTM International “Standard Specification for Biodegradable
Plastics in the Marine Environment” which includes those plastics and products that
are designed to be biodegradable under the marine environmental conditions of
aerobic marine waters or anaerobic marine sediments, or both.
“Carryout Bag” shall mean a bag provided by a store to a customer at the point of
sale for the purpose of removing products purchased therein. Carryout Bags shall
not include those bags, whether plastic or not, intended for the use by a customer for
placing loose produce or other bulk food items to carry to the point of sale or
checkout area of the store.
“Compostable Plastic Bag” shall mean a plastic bag that (1) conforms to the current
ASTM D6400 specifications for compostability; (2) is certified and labeled as
meeting the ASTM D6400 standard specifications by a recognized verification
entity.
“Director”, the Director of Public Health or his/her designee.
“Marine Degradable Plastic Bag” shall mean a plastic bag that conforms to the
current ASTM D7081 standard specification for marine degradability.
“Retail establishment” shall mean any commercial business facility that sells goods
directly to the consumer including but not limited to grocery stores, pharmacies,
liquor stores, “mini-marts,” and retail stores and vendors selling clothing, food and
personal items.
“Reusable Bag” shall mean a bag with handles that is specifically designed for
multiple reuse and is either (1) made of cloth or other washable fabric; or (2) made
of durable plastic 3 mil in thickness; (3) or of some other durable material ;(4) does
not contain lead, cadmium, or any other heavy metal in toxic amounts.
“Thin-Film, Single-Use Plastic Bags” shall mean those bags typically with handles,
constructed of high-density polyethylene (HDPE), low density polyethylene
(LDPE), linear low density polyethylene (LLDPE), polyvinyl chloride (PVC),
polyethylene terephthalate (PET), polypropylene (other than woven and non-woven
polypropylene fabric) if said film is less than 3.0 mils (.0762mm) in thickness and
which do not meet the ASTM D6400 and ASTM D7081 standard specifications.

§157-3 Thin-film, Single-Use Plastic Bags Prohibited
    B. No retail establishment in the Town of Marblehead shall provide Thin-
        Film, Single-Use Plastic Bags to customers.
    B. If a retail establishment provides Carryout Bags to customers, the bags
       must be one of the following:
       (1) Recyclable paper bag, or
       (2) Reusable Carryout Bag, or
       (3) Bag made from a polymer which meets the specifications of ASTM
       D6400 and ASTM 7081, as defined herein.




                                         47
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



    C. Exception: Thin-film plastic bags typically without handles which are used
    to contain dry cleaning, newspapers, produce, meat, bulk foods, wet items and
    other similar merchandise are not prohibited under this bylaw.

§157-5 Enforcement; violations and penalties.
    G. The Board of Health, the Director of Public Health and persons designated
        by the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to administer and
        enforce this bylaw.
    H. Whoever violates any provision of this bylaw may be penalized by a non-
       criminal disposition process as provided in G.L. c. 40, §21D.
    I.   For the first violation, the Director of Public Health or its designee, upon
         determination that a violation has occurred, shall issue a written warning
         notice to the establishment which will specify the violation and the
         appropriate penalties in the event of future violations.
    J.   The following penalties shall apply
             a.   A fine of $25 for the first violation following the issuance of a
                  written warning notice.
             b.   A fine of $50 for the second and any other violation that occurs
                  after the issuance of a warning notice.
    K. Fines are cumulative and each day or portion thereof shall constitute a
       separate offense. If more than one, each condition violated shall constitute
       a separate offense.
    L. Whoever violates any provision of this bylaw may be penalized by
       indictment or on complaint brought in the district court. Except as may be
       otherwise provided by law and as the district court may see fit to impose,
       the maximum penalty for each offense shall be three hundred dollars
       ($300.00).
§157-6 Severability; effective date.
    C. Each section of this bylaw shall be construed as separate to the end that if
        any section, sentence, clause or phrase thereof shall be held invalid for any
        reason, the remainder of that bylaw and all other bylaws shall continue in
        full force.




                                         48
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


    D. This bylaw shall take effect twelve (12) months following the effective
       date of the bylaw to allow time for retail establishments to use their
       existing inventory of plastic checkout bags and to convert to alternative
       packaging materials.
§157-7 Regulations
The Board of Health may adopt and periodically amend rules and regulations to
effectuate the purposes of this by-law. Prior to the adoption and subsequent
amendment to the rules and regulations, if any, the Board of Health shall hold a
public hearing. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, and of the subject
matter, sufficient for identification, shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the Town once in each of two successive weeks, the first publication
to be not less than 14 days before the day of the hearing. A copy of the adopted
regulations shall be made available at the Office of the Town Clerk and as otherwise
deemed appropriate by the Board of Health. Failure by the Board of Health to
promulgate such rules and regulations shall not have the effect of suspending or
invalidating this by-law.

Article 29 Amend the Town of Marblehead General Bylaws by adding a new
Chapter 157 – entitled, Environmental Hazards: Reduction of Waste, Article
II, Expanded Polystyrene Food and Beverage Containers Prohibited
Voted: To amend the Town of Marblehead General Bylaws by adding a new
Chapter 157: Environmental Hazards: Reduction of Waste, Article II, Expanded
Polystyrene Food and Beverage Containers Prohibited, regarding the prohibition of
the distribution and use of expanded polystyrene food and beverage containers by
food establishments in the Town of Marblehead as follows:

Chapter 157: Environmental Hazards: Reduction of Waste
Article II: Expanded Polystyrene Food and Beverage Containers Prohibited
§157- 8 Findings and Purpose
Expanded polystyrene food containers form a significant portion of the solid waste
stream going into our landfills. Local landfills are running out of room; our future
solid waste may need to be transported hundreds of miles to a landfill at a
considerable cost. Expanded polystyrene are not biodegradable; once buried in a
landfill, they will remain for centuries. The elimination of expanded polystyrene
food and beverage containers is in the best interest of the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the Town of Marblehead.
§ 157-9 Definitions
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
“Disposable Food Service Container” shall mean single-use disposable products for
serving or transporting prepared, ready-to-consume food or beverages, including,




                                         49
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


without limitation, take-out foods and/or leftovers from partially consumed meals
prepared by a restaurant and/or retail food establishment. This includes, but is not
limited to, plates, cups, bowls, trays, hinged or lidded containers, straws, cup lids, or
utensils. It shall not include single-use disposable packaging for unprepared foods.
“Expanded Polystyrene” shall mean blown polystyrene (polystyrene that has been
expanded or blown using a gaseous blowing agent into a solid foam) and expanded
and extruded forms, which are thermoplastic petrochemical materials utilizing a
styrene monomer and processed by any number of techniques including, but not
limited to, fusion of polymer spheres (expandable bead polystyrene), injection
molding, form molding, and extrusion-blow molding (extruded foam polystyrene),
sometimes called Styrofoam, a Dow Chemical Co. trademarked form of polystyrene
foam.
“Prepared Food” shall mean any food or beverage prepared on the restaurant and/or
retail food establishment's premises using any cooking or food preparation
technique. Prepared food shall not include any raw uncooked meat, fish or eggs
unless provided for consumption without further food preparation. Prepared food
may be eaten on or off the food establishment's premises. “Restaurant” shall mean
any establishment which serves food for consumption whether on or off the
premises and which may also maintain tables for the use of its customers.
“Retail Food Establishment” shall mean any establishment which sells food for
consumption off the premises, including but not limited to grocery stores, theaters
and all other food service establishments not included in the definition of a
"Restaurant" in this section.

§157-10 Prohibition:
Expanded Polystyrene food or beverage containers shall not be used to package or
serve food or beverages by Restaurants and or/Retail Food Establishments within
the Town of Marblehead. This bylaw shall not apply to the packaging of uncooked
meat, uncooked poultry, and/or uncooked fish.

§157- 12 List of available alternatives.
Not later than sixty (60) days following approval hereof by the Attorney General,
the Board of Health shall adopt a list of available suitable affordable
biodegradable/compostable or recyclable alternatives for each product type, which
the Board of Health shall be updated regularly.

§157-13 Enforcement; violations and penalties.
    A. The Board of Health, the Director of Public Health and persons designated
    by the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to administer and
    enforce this bylaw.




                                          50
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


    B. Whoever violates any provision of this bylaw may be penalized by a non-
    criminal disposition process as provided in G.L. c. 40, §21D.
    C. For the first violation, the Director of Public Health or its designee, upon
    determination that a violation has occurred, shall issue a written warning notice
    to the establishment which will specify the violation and the appropriate
    penalties in the event of future violations.
    D. Thereafter, the following penalties shall apply
             a.   A fine of $25 for the first violation following the issuance of a
                  written warning notice.
             b.   A fine of $50 for the second and any other violation that occurs
                  after the issuance of a warning notice.
    E. Fines are cumulative and each day or portion thereof shall constitute a
    separate offense. If more than one, each condition violated shall constitute a
    separate offense.
    F. Whoever violates any provision of this bylaw may be penalized by
    indictment or on complaint brought in the district court. Except as may be
    otherwise provided by law and as the district court may see fit to impose, the
    maximum penalty for each offense shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00).
§157-14 Severability; effective date.
A. Each section of this bylaw shall be construed as separate to the end that if any
section, sentence, clause or phrase thereof shall be held invalid for any reason, the
remainder of that bylaw and all other bylaws shall continue in full force.
B. This bylaw shall take effect twelve (12) months following the effective date of
the bylaw to allow time for Restaurants and Retail Food Establishments to use their
existing inventory of Expanded Polystyrene food or beverage containers and to
convert to alternative materials.

§157-15 Regulations
The Board of Health may adopt and periodically amend rules and regulations to
effectuate the purposes of this by-law. Prior to the adoption and subsequent
amendment to the rules and regulations, if any, the Board of Health shall hold a
public hearing. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, and of the subject
matter, sufficient for identification, shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the Town once in each of two successive weeks, the first publication
to be not less than 14 days before the day of the hearing. A copy of the adopted
regulations shall be made available at the Office of the Town Clerk and as otherwise




                                         51
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


deemed appropriate by the Board of Health. Failure by the Board of Health to
promulgate such rules and regulations shall not have the effect of suspending or
invalidating this by-law.


Article 30 Flood Plain Amendment
Voted: To amend the zoning bylaw as follows:
Amend Section 200-8(C) Floodplain District. Which currently reads as follows:
Floodplain District: The Floodplain District is herein overlay district. The district
includes all special flood hazard areas within the Town of Marblehead designated as
Zone A, AE, AO, and VE on the Essex County Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA, successor to the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, HUD) for the administration
of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). The map panels of the Essex
County FIRM that are wholly or partially within the Town of Marblehead are panel
numbers       25009C0419F,       25009C0438F,       25009C0439F,     25009C0443F,
25009C0532F, 25009C0551F, and 25009C0552G dated July 3, 2012 and as may be
amended from time to time. The map indicates the one-hundred-year regulatory
floodplain. The exact boundaries of the district may be defined by the one-hundred-
year base flood elevations shown on the FIRM and further defined by the Flood
Insurance Study report dated July 3, 2012. The FIRM and Flood Insurance Study
report are on file with the Town Clerk, the Building Commissioner, and
Conservation Commission.

To read instead (bold text added) 200-8(C) Floodplain District. “The Floodplain
District is herein established as an overlay district. The district includes all special
flood hazard areas within the Town of Marblehead designated as Zone A, AE, AO,
and VE on the Essex County Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA, successor to the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development, HUD) for the administration of the National
Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). The map panels of the Essex County FIRM that
are wholly or partially within the Town of Marblehead are panel numbers
25009C0419G, 25009C0438G, 25009C0439G, 25009C0443G, 25009C0532G,
25009C0551G, and 25009C0525G dated July 16, 2014 and as may be amended
from time to time. The map indicates the one-hundred-year regulatory floodplain.
The exact boundaries of the district may be defined by the one-hundred-year base
flood elevations shown on the FIRM and further defined by the Flood Insurance
Study report dated July 16, 2014. The FIRM and Flood Insurance Study report are
on file with the Town Clerk, the Building Commissioner, and Conservation
Commission.”




                                          52
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



Article 31 Amend Town Bylaw – Interest on Outstanding Water and Sewer
Accounts
Voted: To amend the Town of Marblehead General Bylaws, Chapter 63, Section
63-8, Interest on outstanding water and sewer accounts which currently reads:

Except as otherwise provided by law, all water and sewer charges and bills shall be
due within 30 days of the date of mailing. Such charges and bills remaining unpaid
after the 90th day after mailing shall accrue interest at the rate of 14% per annum.

To read instead: (Strikeout text represents deleted language and bold and underline
font represents proposed amendment.)

Except as otherwise provided by law, all water and sewer charges and bills shall be
due within 30 days of the date of mailing. Such charges and bills remaining unpaid
after the 390th day after the mailing shall accrue interest at the rate of 14% per
annum.

Article 32 Landfill Regulatory Compliance Activities
Voted: To appropriate a sum of $114,600.00 to be expended by the Board of health
for continued water quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk assessment,
engineering, and any other services related to the old landfill.

Article 33 Massachusetts Community Preservation Act Acceptance thereof.
Vote Failed: To accept Sections 3 to 7, inclusive, of Chapter 44B of the General
Laws, otherwise known as the Massachusetts community Preservation act, by
approving a surcharge on real property for the purposes permitted by said Act,
including the acquisition, creation and preservation of open space, the acquisition,
preservation, rehabilitation and restoration of historic resources, the acquisition,
creation, preservation, rehabilitation and restoration of land for recreational use, the
acquisition, creation, preservation and support of housing that is acquired or created
as provided under said Act; that the amount of such surcharge on real property shall
be 1% of the annual real estate tax levy against real property commencing in fiscal
year 2015; and that the Town hereby accepts the following exemptions from such
surcharge permitted under Section 3(e) of said Act: property owned and occupied
as a domicile by any person who qualifies for low income housing or low or
moderate income senior housing in the Town, as defined in Section 2 of said Act
and $100,000 of the Value of each taxable parcel of residential real property and
commercial real property.




                                          53
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Article 34 Waterside Cemetery, Veterans Lot
Vote Failed: To amend the regulations in Chapter 206 Cemeteries, Section 5
Veteran’s lot by deleting the last sentence; “The lifting of the turf for flower beds is
prohibited on ay veteran’s grave” and inserting the words “The placement of
wreaths on the headstones and in the ground planting of flowers is allowed on any
veteran’s grave”.

Article 35 Waterside Cemetery
Vote Failed: To amend the regulations in Chapter 206 Cemeteries, Section 9
Decoration of Plots by deleting the wording in section B and inserting the
following: “The hanging of wreaths on the headstones and planting of in ground
flowers are permitted”.

Article 36 Waive Permit for the Marblehead Housing Authority
Voted: That this article be indefinitely postponed.

Article 37 Prohibit the Town from Requiring Pre-Injury Release with Certain
Provisions
Vote Failed: That the by-laws of the Town of Marblehead be amended as follows:
The Town of Marblehead, including all of its agencies and departments, shall not
require the execution of a pre-injury release that includes any of the following
terms, nor seek to enforce any of the following terms from a pre-injury release
executed prior to the approval of this bylaw:

         a.       a term releasing pre-injury claims other than negligence;
         b.       a term releasing claims that do not arise out of the program or
                  activity for which the pre-injury release was submitted;
         c.       a term releasing any individual or organization who/that is not an
                  agent, employee or volunteer of the Town of Marblehead
                  involved with the program or activity for which the pre-injury
                  release was submitted.

Article 38 Crosswalk at Tedesco and Leggs Hill Road
Counted Vote: For 183 Against 15
Voted: That an additional crosswalk be placed on Tedesco Street near the
intersection of Leggs Hill Road to assist residents of Tedesco and the surrounding
area in crossing this busy street, and that the Town of Marblehead provide the
necessary funding by raising, appropriating, or transferring money from available
funds at the end of the fiscal year, and take the necessary actions (including but not
limited to a traffic and safety study to be presented to the Traffic and Safety




                                          54
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                          Marblehead Massachusetts
                            Annual Town Election
                           Tuesday, May 13th, 2014

The Number of Votes Cast where as follows:

Precinct 1                400                 15.7% of 2,551 Registered Voters
Precinct 2                381                 14.4% of 2,543 Registered Voters
Precinct 3                312                 13.2% of 2,365 Registered Voters
Precinct 4                347                 13/4% of 2,590Registered Voters
Precinct 5                272                 11.2% of 2,435 Registered Voters
Precinct 6                333                 13.8% of 2,408 Registered Voters
Total                     2,045               13.6% of 14,992 Registered Voters

Canvas Completed at 10:15 pm

                               Selectmen 1 Year Term

Vote for not more than Five
   Precinct               1        2       3        4         5      6      Total
   Blanks                709      578     534      642       503    572     3527
   Jackie Belf-Becker    249      250     203      213       187    218     1320
   Harry C.              242      262     196      206       163    208     1277
   Christensen, Jr.
   Judith R. Jacobi      276       274   217        231       176    230    1404
   Bret T. Murray        236       268   191        191       148    199    1233
   James E. Nye          276       284   218        249       182    235    1444
   All Others             12        0     1          3         1      3      20
   Total                2000      1905   1560      1735      1360   1665    10225



                              Moderator 1 Year Term
         Vote for not more than One
          Precinct           1    2       3       4     5      6    Total
          Blanks             89   83     83      101   69      86    511
          Gary A. Spiess 309 298         229     246   202    246   1530
          All Others         2    0       0       0     1      1      4
          Total             508 503      389     393   301    376   2470




                                         56
               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



                       Assessors 3 Year Term

  Vote for not more than One
     Precinct          1     2     3     4      5     6     Total
     Blanks           119    99    99   117     91   110     635
     John P. Kelley   281   282   212   230    181   223    1409
     All Others        0     0     1     0      0     0       1
     Total            400   381   312   347    272   333    2045


                Cemetery Commission 3 Year Term

  Vote for not more than One
Precinct                     1     2     3     4      5      6      Total
Blanks                       39    37    43    70    41      46      276
Rose Ann Wheeler McCarthy   130   125   101   125    120    123      724
William Henry James         231   219   168   152    111    164     1045
All Others                   0     0     0     0      0      0        0
Total                       400   381   312   347    272    333     2045



                    Board of Health 3 Year Term
  Vote for not more than One
   Precinct             1     2    3     4    5        6     Total
   Blanks              130 111 103 126 72              96     638
   Todd Belfbecker 270 270 209 221 200                237    1407
   All Others           0     1    0     0    0        0       0
   Total               400 381 312 347 272            333    2045




                                  57
            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


       Abbot Public Library Trustees 3 Year Term
Vote for not more than Two
Precinct              1    2        3      4     5     6    Total
Blanks               518 495       406    458   354   427   2660
Ann M. Mcgreevy 275 261            212    231   188   237   1404
Susan Indresano       2    0        1      1     0     0      4
Zachary L. Newell     2    1        0      2     0     0      5
All Others            3    5        3      2     2     2     17
Total                800 762       624    694   544   666   4090

       Municipal Light Commissioner 3 Year Term
Vote for not more than One
Precinct               1   2         3     4     5     6    Total
Blanks                 85  83        75   115    75    99    532
Calvin T. Crawford 142 108           90   106    88    98    632
Michael A. Tumulty 173 190          147   126   109   136    881
All Others             0   0         0     0     0     0      0
Total                 400 381       312   347   272   333   2045

 Municipal Light Commissioner 1 year Unexpired Term
Vote for not more than One
Precinct               1   2         3     4     5     6    Total
Blanks               134 117        118   131    97   113    710
Andrew F. Hadden 266 264            194   216   175   220   1335
All Others             0   0         0     0     0     0      1
Total                400 381        312   347   272   333   2045

               Planning Board 3 Year Term
Vote for not more than One
Precinct                1     2      3     4     5     6    Total
Blanks                 328   320    258   291   237   277   1711
Phillip Helmes         249   230    193   207   156   200   1235
Robert J. Schaeffner 223     211    173   196   151   189   1143
All Others              0     1      0     0     0     0     1
Total                  800   762    624   694   544   666   4090




                               58
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                    Housing Authority 5 Year Term
       Vote for not more than One
        Precinct            1     2    3     4     5     6    Total
        Blanks             123 108    110   129    88   113    671
        Pamela J. Foye 277 273        201   218   182   219   1370
        All Others          0     0    1     0     2     1      4
        Total              400 381    312   347   272   333   2045

                Recreation and Park Commission 1 Year Term
Vote for not more than Five
Precinct                      1    2    3       4      5    6         Total
Blanks                       692  625  593     717    554  618        3799
Linda A. Rice Collins        254  267  195     203    161  212        1292
Robert F. Jackson            258  246  191     200    161  208        1264
Derek Y. Norcross            272  259  197     217    177  223        1345
Charles Edward               252  243  190     204    153  205        1247
Osborne, Jr.
Gerald P. Tucker, Jr.        264  261  194     193    153  199        1264
All Others                    8    5    0       1      1    0          15
Total                       2000 1906 1560 1735 1360 1665             10226

                        School Committee 3 Year Term
Vote for not more than Two
Precinct                    1      2       3     4       5       6    Total
Blanks                     145    145    131    159     106     106    792
Thomas F. Connolly         119    108     93     70      63     104    557
Michael K. Murphy          255    272    189    233     186     201   1336
Susanna Pierce Pratt       281    237    211    232     189     254   1404
All Others                  8      5       0     1       1       0      15
Total                      800    762    624    694     544     696   4090


                  School Committee 1 Year Unexpired Term
   Vote for not more than One
     Precinct                  1     2    3    4     5   6        Total
     Blanks                   119 106 101 95         80  97        598
     William C. Ackerman, II 281 275 210 249 190 235              1440
     All Others                0     0    1    3     2   1          7
     Total                    400 381 312 347 272 333             2045




                                      59
              MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                Water & Sewer Commission 3 Year Term
Vote for not more than Two
 Precinct                    1    2   3     4     5  6   Total
 Blanks                     502 453 384 454 352 425      2570
 Bradford Nick Freeman, Jr. 293 296 234 238 190 237      1488
 John P. Doane               5   12   6     1     1  3    28
 All Others                  0    1   0     1     1  1    4
 Total                      800 762 624 694 544 666      4090




                             60
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                  COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
                      WILLIAM FRANCIS GALVIN
                 SECRETARY OF THE COMMONWEALTH
SS.
To the Constables of the Town of Marblehead

         GREETINGS:
In the name of the Commonwealth, you are hereby required to notify and warn the
inhabitants of said city or town who are qualified to vote in Primaries to vote at:

Precinct 1        The Masonic Temple                            62 Pleasant St.
Precinct 2        The Masonic Temple                            62 Pleasant St.
Precinct 3        The Masonic Temple                            62 Pleasant St.
Precinct 4        The Marblehead Community Center               10 Humphrey St.
Precinct 5        The Marblehead Community Center               10 Humphrey St.
Precinct 6        The Marblehead Community Center               10 Humphrey St.

on TUESDAY, THE NINTH DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 2014, from 7:00 A.M. to
8:00 P.M. for the following purpose:

To cast their votes in the State Primaries for the candidates of political parties for
the following offices:

SENATOR IN CONGRESS            FOR THIS COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNOR                       FOR THIS COMMONWEALTH
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR            FOR THIS COMMONWEALTH
ATTORNEY GENERAL               FOR THIS COMMONWEALTH
SECRETARY OF STATE             FOR THIS COMMONWEALTH
TREASURER AND RECEIVER GENERAL FOR THIS COMMONWEALTH
AUDITOR                         FOR THIS COMMONWEALTH
REPRESENTATIVE IN CONGRESS     SIXTH DISTRICT
COUNCILLOR                      SIXTH DISTRICT
SENATOR IN GENERAL COURT THIRD ESSEX DISTRICT
REPRESENTATIVE IN GENERAL COURT EIGHTH ESSEX DISTRICT
DISTRICT ATTORNEY               EASTERN DISTRICT
REGISTER OF PROBATE             ESSEX COUNTY

         Hereof fail not and make return of this warrant with your doings thereon at
the time and place of said voting.




                                         61
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Given under our hands this 5th day of August, 2014.

Jackie Belf-Becker
Judith R. Jacobi
Bret T. Murray
James Nye
Marblehead Board of Selectmen




True Copy Attest:
Paul Minsky
Constable




                                        62
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                         Commonwealth of Massachusetts
                                 State Primary
                           Tuesday, September 9, 2014

The Number of Votes Cast were as follows:
Precinct 1     872               34,0% of 2,565 Registered Voters
Precinct 2     801               30.7% of 2,613 Registered Voters
Precinct 3     604               25.6% of 2,361Registered Voters
Precinct 4     880               33.9% of 2,597Registered Voters
Precinct 5     752               31.1% of 2,415 Registered Voters
Precinct 6     790               32.7% of 2,418 Registered Voters
Total          4,699             31.4% of 14,969 Registered Voters

Canvas Completed at 11:30 pm

                               REPUBLICAN PARTY

Senator in Congress
Precinct      1     2          3       4         5       6         Total
Blanks        44    37         30      38        30      43        222
Brian J. Herr 109 115          74      122       100     94        614
All Others    0     0          0       0         0       0         0
TOTALS        153 152          104     160       130     137       836

Governor
Precinct           1      2          3       4         5       6      Total
Blanks             4      2          1       0         1       3      11
Charles D. Baker   109    115        74      122       100     94     715
Mark R. Fisher     11     25         17      20        21      16     110
All Others         0      0          0       0         0       0      0
TOTALS             153    152        104     160       130     137    836

Lieutenant Governor
Precinct        1        2       3         4       5         6       Total
Blanks          34       29      17        26      27        24      157
Karyn E. Polito 119      122     87        134     103       113     678
All Others      0        1       0         0       0         0       1
TOTALS          153      152     104       160     130       137     836




                                              63
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Attorney General
Precinct       1          2      3      4      5         6      Total
Blanks         39         35     25     34     24        37     194
John B. Miller 114        117    79     126    105       100    641
All Others     0          0      0      0      1         0      1
TOTALS         153        152    104    160    130       137    836

Secretary of State
Precinct              1         2      3      4      5         6     Total
Blanks                44        42     28     39     31        45    229
David D’Arcangelo     109       110    76     121    99        92    607
All Others            0         0      0      0      0         0     0
TOTALS                153       152    104    160    130       137   836

Treasurer
Precinct                        1      2      3      4         5     6       Total
Blanks                          44     45     28     36        27    41      221
Michael James Heffernan         109    107    76     124       103   95      614
All Others                      0      0      0      0         0     1       1
TOTALS                          153    152    104    160       130   137     836

Auditor
Precinct                   1      2      3         4      5      6       Total
Blanks                     45     50     30        44     38     44      251
Patricia S. Saint Aubin    108    102    74        116    92     92      584
All Others                 0      0      0         0      0      1       1
TOTALS                     153    152    104       160    130    137     836

Representative in Congress 6th District
Precinct          1    2      3      4             5      6      Total
Blanks            28   28     14     25            19     29     143
Richard R. Tisei 123 123 89          135           111    107    688
All Others        2    1      1      0             0      1      5
TOTALS            153 152 104 160                  130    137    836




                                              64
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Councillor 6th District
Precinct                  1     2     3      4      5       6       Total
Blanks                    50    49    34     50     35      50      268
Vincent Lawrence Dixon    103   103   70     110    95      87      568
All Others                0     0     0      0      0       0       0
TOTALS                    153   152   104    160    130     137     836

Senator in General Court 3rd Essex District
Precinct    1    2     3      4     5       6      Total
Blanks      152 151 104 158 128 136                829
All Others 1     1     0      2     2       1      7
TOTALS 153 152 104 160 130 137                     836

Representative in General Court 8th Essex District
Precinct   1      2    3     4      5     6      Total
Blanks     151 152 103 158 130 136 830
All Others 2      0    1     2      0     1      6
TOTALS 153 152 104 160 130 137 836

District Attorney Eastern District
Precinct      1    2      3      4    5      6      Total
Blanks        152 151 104 159         130    137    833
All Others    1    1      0      1    0      0      3
TOTALS        153 152 104 160         130    137    836

Register of Probate Essex County
Precinct             1     2     3     4      5       6      Total
Blanks               56    45    33    49     35      55     273
Michael E. Morales. 96     107 71      111    95      82     562
All Others           1     0     0     0      0       0      1
TOTALS               153 152 104       160    130     137    836

                           DEMOCRATIC PARTY
Senator in Congress
Precinct           1      2     3     4      5      6       Total
Blanks             237    200   155   266    177    228     1263
Edward J. Markey 481      448   343   452    442    423     2589
All Others         1      1     2     2      3      2       11
TOTALS             719    649   500   720    622    653     3863




                                      65
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



Governor
Precinct             1         2      3      4      5      6      Total
Blanks               4         2      1      0      1      3      11
Donald M. Berwick    109       115    74     122    100    94     715
Martha Coakley       283       277    217    286    198    235    1496
Steven Grossman      288       231    173    291    324    265    1572
All Others           0         1      0      0      0      1      2
TOTALS               719       649    500    720    622    653    3863

Lieutenant Governor
Precinct            1          2      3      4      5      6      Total
Blanks              252        206    161    271    192    245    1327
Leland Cheung       194        168    112    164    122    134    894
Stephen J. Kerrigan 188        194    153    177    189    181    1082
Michael E. Lake     85         81     74     104    117    92     553
All Others          0          0      0      4      2      1      7
TOTALS              719        649    500    720    622    653    3863

Attorney General
Precinct            1      2         3      4      5      6      Total
Blanks              68     77        53     96     60     61     415
Maura Healey        444    410       332    431    347    409    2373
Warren E. Tolman    207    162       115    193    215    183    1075
All Others          0      0         0      0      0      0      0
TOTALS              719    649       500    720    622    653    3863

Secretary of State
Precinct                  1          2      3      4      5      6       Total
Blanks                    234        210    136    270    180    213     1243
William Francis Galvin    S485       439    364    450    442    440     2620
All Others                0          0      0      0      0      0       0
TOTALS                    719        649    500    720    622    653     3863

Treasurer
Precinct                 1      2      3      4      5      6      Total
Blanks                   167    150    100    194    97     139    847
Thomas P. Conroy         142    120    105    116    85     108    676
Barry R. Finegold        202    181    135    182    231    185    1116




                                            66
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Deborah B. Goldberg    208     198   160    228       209     221     1224
All Others             0       0     0      0         0       0       0
TOTALS                 719     649   500    720       622     653     3863

Auditor
Precinct            1      2     3         4      5         6       Total
Blanks              306    265   1j94      341    231       267     1604
Suzanne M. Bump     413    384   305       379    390       386     2257
All Others          0      0     1         0      0         0       1
TOTALS              719    649   500       720    622       653     3863

Representative in Congress 6th District
Precinct             1     2      3        4         5       6       Total
Blanks               5     3      2        1         5       3       19
John F. Tierney      146 175 148           138       160     160     927
Marisa A. DeFranco 9       7      6        4         6       9       41
John Patrick Devine 1      1      1        2         1       2       8
John J. Gutta        1     2      0        1         0       2       6
Seth W. Moulton      557 461 343           574       450     477     2862
All Others           0     0      0        0         00      0       0
TOTALS               719 649 500           720       622     653     3863

Councillor 6th Distsrict
Precinct                 1     2     3         4       5       6       Total
Blanks                   322   268   201       348     229     289     1657
Terrence W. Kennedy 452        420   331       418     424     421     2466
All Others               0     0     1         0       0       0       1
TOTALS                   719   649   500       720     622     653     3863

Senator in General Court 3rd Essex District
Precinct            1     2     3      4             5       6       Total
Blanks              152 151 104 158                  128     136     829
Thomas M. McGee 452 420 331 418                      424     421     2466
All Others          0     0     1      0             0       0       1
TOTALS              719 649 500 720                  622     653     3863




                                          67
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Representative in General Court 8th Essex District
Precinct         1    2     3     4     5      6        Total
Blanks           203 174 139 236 138 182                1072
Lori A. Ehrlich 516 475 361 483 483 471                 2789
All Others       0    0     0     1     1      0        2
TOTALS           719 649 500 720 622 653                3863

District Attorney Eastern District
Precinct               1      2      3     4      5     6       Total
Blanks                 277 233       165   302    190   233     1400
Jonathan W. Blodgett 441 416         333   418    431   420     2460
All Others             1      0      2     0      0     0       3
TOTALS                 719 649       500   720    622   653     3863

Register of Probate Essex County
Precinct                1    2       3      4     5     6        Total
Blanks                  290 245      184    324   212   256      1511
Pamela Casey O’Brien 429 404         315    396   410   397      2351
All Others              0    0       1      0     0     0        1
TOTALS                  719 649      500    720   622   653      3863




                                       68
                            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                      COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
                           WILLIAM FRANCIS GALVIN
                      SECRETARY OF THE COMMONWEALTH

Essex SS.
To the Constables of the Town of Marblehead

         GREETINGS:
In the name of the Commonwealth, you are hereby required to notify and warn the
inhabitants of said city or town who are qualified to vote in the State Election to
vote at
Precinct 1         The Masonic Temple                            62 Pleasant St.
Precinct 2         The Masonic Temple                            62 Pleasant St.
Precinct 3         The Masonic Temple                            62 Pleasant St.
Precinct 4         The Marblehead Community Center               10 Humphrey St.
Precinct 5         The Marblehead Community Center               10 Humphrey St.
Precinct 6         The Marblehead Community Center               10 Humphrey St.

on TUESDAY, THE FOURTH DAY OF NOVEMBER, 2014, from 7:00 A.M.
to 8:00 P.M. for the following purpose:

To cast their votes in the State Election for the candidates for the following offices
and questions:

Senator in Congress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . For This Commonwealth
Governor and Lieutenant Governor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . For This Commonwealth
Attorney General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . For This Commonwealth
Secretary of State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . For This Commonwealth
Treasurer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . For This Commonwealth
Auditor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .For This Commonwealth
Representative in Congress. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .Sixth District
Councillor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sixth District
Senator in General Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Third Essex District
Representative in General Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .Eighth Essex District
District Attorney. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Eastern District
Register of Probate. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .Essex County


QUESTION 1: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the




                                                     69
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Senate or the House of Representatives on or before May 6, 2014?

SUMMARY
This proposed law would eliminate the requirement that the state’s gasoline tax,
which was 24 cents per gallon as of September 2013, (1) be adjusted every year by
the percentage change in the Consumer Price Index over the preceding year, but (2)
not be adjusted below 21.5 cents per gallon.

A YES VOTE would eliminate the requirement that the state’s gas tax be adjusted
annually based on the Consumer Price Index.

A NO VOTE would make no change in the laws regarding the gas tax.

QUESTION 2: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the
Senate or the House of Representatives on or before May 6, 2014?

SUMMARY
This proposed law would expand the state’s beverage container deposit law, also
known as the Bottle Bill, to require deposits on containers for all non-alcoholic non-
carbonated drinks in liquid form intended for human consumption, except beverages
primarily derived from dairy products, infant formula, and FDA approved
medicines. The proposed law would not cover containers made of paper-based
biodegradable material and aseptic multi-material packages such as juice boxes or
pouches.

The proposed law would require the state Secretary of Energy and Environmental
Affairs (EEA) to adjust the container deposit amount every five years to reflect (to
the nearest whole cent) changes in the consumer price index, but the value could not
be set below five cents.

The proposed law would increase the minimum handling fee that beverage
distributors must pay dealers for each properly returned empty beverage container,
which was 2¼ cents as of September 2013, to 3½ cents. It would also increase the
minimum handling fee that bottlers must pay distributors and dealers for each
properly returned empty reusable beverage container, which was 1 cent as of
September 2013, to 3½ cents. The Secretary of EEA would review the fee amounts
every five years and make appropriate adjustments to reflect changes in the
consumer price index as well as changes in the costs incurred by redemption
centers. The proposed law defines a redemption center as any business whose




                                         70
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


primary purpose is the redemption of beverage containers and that is not ancillary to
any other business.

The proposed law would direct the Secretary of EEA to issue regulations allowing
small dealers to seek exemptions from accepting empty deposit containers. The
proposed law would define small dealer as any person or business, including the
operator of a vending machine, who sells beverages in beverage containers to
consumers, with a contiguous retail space of 3,000 square feet or less, excluding
office and stock room space; and fewer than four locations under the same
ownership in the Commonwealth. The proposed law would require that the
regulations consider at least the health, safety, and convenience of the public,
including the distribution of dealers and redemption centers by population or by
distance or both.

The proposed law would set up a state Clean Environment Fund to receive certain
unclaimed container deposits. The Fund would be used, subject to appropriation by
the state Legislature, to support programs such as the proper management of solid
waste, water resource protection, parkland, urban forestry, air quality and climate
protection.

The proposed law would allow a dealer, distributor, redemption center or bottler to
refuse to accept any beverage container that is not marked as being refundable in
Massachusetts.

The proposed law would take effect on April 22, 2015.

A YES VOTE would expand the state’s beverage container deposit law to require
deposits on containers for all non-alcoholic, non-carbonated drinks with certain
exceptions, increase the associated handling fees, and make other changes to the
law.

A NO VOTE would make no change in the laws regarding beverage container
deposits.

QUESTION 3: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the
Senate or the House of Representatives on or before May 6, 2014?

SUMMARY
This proposed law would (1) prohibit the Massachusetts Gaming Commission from




                                         71
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


issuing any license for a casino or other gaming establishment with table games and
slot machines, or any license for a gaming establishment with slot machines; (2)
prohibit any such casino or slots gaming under any such licenses that the
Commission might have issued before the proposed law took effect; and (3) prohibit
wagering on the simulcasting of live greyhound races.

The proposed law would change the definition of “illegal gaming” under
Massachusetts law to include wagering on the simulcasting of live greyhound races,
as well as table games and slot machines at Commission-licensed casinos, and slot
machines at other Commission-licensed gaming establishments. This would make
those types of gaming subject to existing state laws providing criminal penalties for,
or otherwise regulating or prohibiting, activities involving illegal gaming.

The proposed law states that if any of its parts were declared invalid, the other parts
would stay in effect.

A YES VOTE would prohibit casinos, any gaming establishment with slot
machines, and wagering on simulcast greyhound races.

A NO VOTE would make no change in the current laws regarding gaming.

QUESTION 4: LAW PROPOSED BY INITIATIVE PETITION
Do you approve of a law summarized below, on which no vote was taken by the
Senate or the House of Representatives on or before May 6, 2014?

SUMMARY
This proposed law would entitle employees in Massachusetts to earn and use sick
time according to certain conditions.

Employees who work for employers having eleven or more employees could earn
and use up to 40 hours of paid sick time per calendar year, while employees
working for smaller employers could earn and use up to 40 hours of unpaid sick
time per calendar year.

An employee could use earned sick time if required to miss work in order (1) to care
for a physical or mental illness, injury or medical condition affecting the employee
or the employee’s child, spouse, parent, or parent of a spouse; (2) to attend routine
medical appointments of the employee or the employee’s child, spouse, parent, or
parent of a spouse; or (3) to address the effects of domestic violence on the
employee or the employee’s dependent child. Employees would earn one hour of




                                         72
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


sick time for every 30 hours worked, and would begin accruing those hours on the
date of hire or on July 1, 2015, whichever is later. Employees could begin to use
earned sick time on the 90th day after hire.

The proposed law would cover both private and public employers, except that
employees of a particular city or town would be covered only if, as required by the
state constitution, the proposed law were made applicable by local or state
legislative vote or by appropriation of sufficient funds to pay for the benefit. Earned
paid sick time would be compensated at the same hourly rate paid to the employee
when the sick time is used.

Employees could carry over up to 40 hours of unused sick time to the next calendar
year, but could not use more than 40 hours in a calendar year. Employers would not
have to pay employees for unused sick time at the end of their employment. If an
employee missed work for a reason eligible for earned sick time, but agreed with
the employer to work the same number of hours or shifts in the same or next pay
period, the employee would not have to use earned sick time for the missed time,
and the employer would not have to pay for that missed time. Employers would be
prohibited from requiring such an employee to work additional hours to make up for
missed time, or to find a replacement employee.

Employers could require certification of the need for sick time if an employee used
sick time for more than 24 consecutively scheduled work hours. Employers could
not delay the taking of or payment for earned sick time because they have not
received the certification. Employees would have to make a good faith effort to
notify the employer in advance if the need for earned sick time is foreseeable.

Employers would be prohibited from interfering with or retaliating based on an
employee’s exercise of earned sick time rights, and from retaliating based on an
employee’s support of another employee’s exercise of such rights.

The proposed law would not override employers’ obligations under any contract or
benefit plan with more generous provisions than those in the proposed law.
Employers that have their own policies providing as much paid time off, usable for
the same purposes and under the same conditions, as the proposed law would not be
required to provide additional paid sick time.

The Attorney General would enforce the proposed law, using the same enforcement
procedures applicable to other state wage laws, and employees could file suits in
court to enforce their earned sick time rights. The Attorney General would have to




                                         73
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


prepare a multilingual notice regarding the right to earned sick time, and employers
would be required to post the notice in a conspicuous location and to provide a copy
to employees. The state Executive Office of Health and Human Services, in
consultation with the Attorney General, would develop a multilingual outreach
program to inform the public of the availability of earned sick time.

The proposed law would take effect on July 1, 2015, and states that if any of its
parts were declared invalid, the other parts would stay in effect.

A YES VOTE would entitle employees in Massachusetts to earn and use sick time
according to certain conditions.

A NO VOTE would make no change in the laws regarding earned sick time.

QUESTION 5
Shall the state representative from this district be instructed to vote for legislation
that replaces the state’s restrictions on marijuana with a law that regulates the
cultivation of and commerce in marijuana, by persons over the age of 21, in the
same manner as laws that apply to the cultivation and sale of fruits, vegetables and
herbs; such a law would (i) require persons covered by the law to take steps to
prevent access to growing plants and marijuana by minors under the age of 18, (ii)
punish distribution among and to such minors, (iii) retain for minors the civil
offense of possessing one ounce or less of marijuana, and (iv) make no change to
existing laws regarding driving while under the influence, “drug-free” schools and
workplaces, and restrictions on smoking tobacco and marijuana products?

         Hereof fail not and make return of this warrant with your doings thereon at
the time and place of said voting.

         Given under our hands this 15th day of October, 2014

Jackie Belf-Becker
Bret T. Murray
James Nye
Harry C. Christensen
Marblehead Board of Selectmen

True Copy Attest:
Paul Minsky
Constable




                                         74
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                      Commonwealth of Massachusetts
                              State Election
                        Tuesday, November 4, 2014

The Number of Votes Cast were as follows:
Precinct 1     1694              65.1% of 2,602 Registered Voters
Precinct 2     1663              63.3% of 2,626 Registered Voters
Precinct 3     1466              61.3% of 2,382 Registered Voters
Precinct 4     1769              67.7% of 2,612 Registered Voters
Precinct 5     1587              65.5% of 2,423Registered Voters
Precinct 6     1641              67.3% of 2,440 Registered Voters
Total          10,170            68.9% of 1 Registered Voters

Canvas Completed at 9:36 pm

Senator in Congress
Precinct           1      2      3        4       5       6       Total
Blanks             94     64     64       72      56      70      420
Edward J. Markey 957      987    854      946     954     897     5595
Brian J. Herr      643    610    547      750     576     674     3800
All Others         0      2      1        1       1       0       5
Total              1694   1663   1466     1769    1587    1641    9820

Governor & Lieutenant Governor
Precinct           1     2         3       4       5       6       Total
Blanks             18    13        19      13      11      17      91
Baker & Polito     913   877       791     1071    897     981     5530
Coakley & Kerrigan 731   730       612     644     643     597     3957
Falchuk & Jennings 22    25        32      31      27      34      171
McCormick & Post 5       8         7       5       8       6       39
All Others         1     0         0       0       0       0       1
Total              1694 1663       1466    1769    1587    1641    9820




                                     75
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Attorney General
Precinct       1          2       3       4       5       6       Total
Blanks         78         72      72      86      60      84      452
Maura Healey 987          969     862     945     960     905     5628
John B. Miller 629        621     532     738     567     652     3739
All Others     0          1       0       0       0       0       1
Total          1694       1663    1466    1769    1587    1641    9820

Secretary of State
Precinct                   1       2       3       4       5       6        Total
Blanks                     103     75      83      112     83      84       540
William Francis Galvin     957     987     854     946     954     897      5595
David D’Arcangelo          501     504     403     578     423     488      2897
Danile L. Factor           52      38      49      32      41      42       254
All Others                 1       0       1       0       1       0        3
Total                      1694    1663    1466    1769    1587    1641     9820

Treasurer
Precinct                    1       2       3       4       5        6       Total
Blanks                      121     104     105     130     85       115     660
Deborah B. Goldberg         823     828     739     802     896      800     4888
Michael James Heffernan     708     684     570     797     572      696     4027
Ian T. Jackson              42      47      52      40      34       30      245
All Others                  0       0       0       0       0        0       0
Total                       1694    1663    1466    1769    1587     1641    9820

Auditor
Precinct                  1       2       3       4       5       6       Total
Blanks                    178     152     145     191     143     171     980
Suzanne m. Bump           828     851     739     829     813     796     4856
Patricia S. Saint Aubin   638     613     529     709     581     629     3699
MK Merlice                50      47      52      40      80      45      284
All Others                0       0       1       0       0       0       1
Total                     1694    1663    1466    1769    1587    1641    9820




                                          76
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



Representative in Congress (6th District)
Precinct                1       2      3        4       5        6       Total
Blanks                  14      21     14       9       18       15      91
Seth W. Moulton         1139 1102 927           1158    1014     1037    6377
Richard R. Tisei        462     477    414      523     453      502     2831
Christoper J. Stockwell 79      63     111      79      101      86      519
All Others              0       0      0        0       1        1       2
Total                   1694 1663 1466          1769    1587     1641    9820


Councillor 6th District
Precinct                  1      2       3       4       5        6        Total
Blanks                    213    181     170     231     164      215      1174
Terrence W. Kennedy       880    905     793     849     886      808      5121
Vincent Lawrence Dixon    600    577     503     688     537      618      3523
All Others                1      0       0       1       0        0        2
Total                     1694   1663    1466    1769    1587     1641     9820

Senator in General Court 3rd Essex District
Precinct                    1      2        3      4        5       6      Total
Blanks                    559     510     456     621      437     553     3136
Thomas M. McGee           1129 1149 1005         1141     1141    1080     6645
All Others                  6      4        5      7        9       8       39
Total                     1694 1663 1466         1769     1587    1641     9820

Representative in General Court 8th Essex District
Precinct         1     2      3        4      5         6       Total
Blanks           504   475    439      553    362       508     2871
Lori A. Ehrlich 1183 1182 1022 1207 1188                1124    6670
All Others       7     6      5        9      7         9       43
Total            1694 1663 1466 1769 1587               1641    9820

District Attorney Eastern District
Precinct               1       2     3       4         5       6        Total
Blanks                 551     510   456     613       438     555      3123
Jonathan W. Blodgett 1137 1152       1004    1152      1144    1081     6670
All Others             6       1     6       4         5       5        27
Total                  1694 1663     1466    1769      1587    1641     9820




                                        77
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



Register of Probate Essex County
Precinct                1     2          3        4        5      6      Total
Blanks                  200   174        166      218      187    204    1149
Pamela Casey O’Brien 910      9j32       829      896      878    841    5286
Michael E. Morales      584   557        471      655      521    596    3384
All Others              0     0          0        0        1      0      1
Total                   1694 1663        1466     1769     1587   1641   9820


Question 1 - State Gasoline Tax Question
Precinct      1      2       3     4      5           6      Total
Blanks        71     56      57    76    49           46      355
Yes          831    828     689   870    791         836     4845
No           792    779     720   823    747         759     4620
Total       1694 1663 1466 1769 1587                1641     9820

Question 2 – Expand State Bottle Bill Question
Precinct     1      2       3       4       5         6      Total
Blanks       36     25      32     37      24         19      173
Yes         521    469     393    510     422        440     2755
No          1137 1169 1041 1222 1141                1182     6892
Total       1694 1663 1466 1769 1587                1641     9820

Question 3- Prohibit Casinos Question
Precinct     1        2      3      4       5         6      Total
Blanks       56      34     32      45      30        38      235
Yes         890     792    642     926     711       803     4764
No          748     837    792     798     846       800     4821
Total       1694 1663 1466 1769            1587     1641     9820

Question 4 – Earned Sick Time Question
Precinct     1       2      3     4     5             6      Total
Blanks       67     43      38    64   37             41      290
Yes         856    894     794   823   842           823     5032
No          771    726     634   882   708           777     4498
Total       1694 1663 1466 1769 1587                1641     9820




                                      78
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



Question 5 – Marijuana Cultivation Regulation Non-Binding
Precinct     1      2       3       4      5      6    Total
Blanks      293    289     230     282    255   264     1613
Yes         818    809     732     835    784   762     4740
No          792    779     720     823    747   759     4620
Total       1694 1663 1466 1769 1587 1641 9820




                                     79
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


         TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD ELECTED OFFICIALS 2014

SELECTMAN                                              Term Expires
--Abbot Hall, Marblehead, MA 01945
Jackie Belf-Becker - Chair                                    2015
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.                                     2015
Judith R. Jacobi                                              2015
Bret T. Murray                                                2015
James E. Nye                                                  2015

MODERATOR
Gary A. Spiess                                                2015

TOWN CLERK
--Abbot Hall, Marblehead, MA 01945
Robin A. Michaud                                              2016

ASSESSORS
--Mary A. Alley Building, Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945
John P. Kelley                                                2017
William J. Willis                                             2016
Douglas E. Percy                                              2015

CEMETERY COMMISSION
--Waterside Cemetery, Marblehead, MA 01945
William Henry James                                           2017
Richard F. Coletti                                            2016
David M. Cashman                                              2015

BOARD OF HEALTH
--Mary A. Alley Building, Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945
Todd Belfbecker                                               2017
Helaine Hazlett                                               2016
Michelle B. Gottlieb                                          2015

HOUSING AUTHORITY
--26 Rowland Street, Marblehead, MA 01945
Jean R. Eldridge                                              2016
Robert T. Bryne                                               2015
Pamela J. Foye                                                2019




                                     80
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Virginia Kenney-Healey                                          2016

TRUSTEES OF ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY
--235 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA 01945                 Term Expires
Ann M McGreevy                                                 2017
Zachary Newell                                                 2017
Maura Phelan Murnane                                           2016
Phil Sweeney                                                   2016
Judy Gates                                                     2015
Phyllis B. Smith                                               2015

MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSIONER
Michael Anthony Tumulty                                         2017
Michael A. Hull                                                 2016
Walter E. Homan                                                 2016
Andrew F. Hadden                                                2015
Phil Sweeney                                                    2015

PLANNING BOARD
--c/o Engineering Office, Mary A. Alley Building, Marblehead, MA 01945
Philip Helmes                                                    2017
Robert J. Schaeffner                                             2017
Edward Nilsson                                                   2016
James Bishop                                                     2015
Paul B. Elser                                                    2015

RECREATION & PARK COMMISSION
--Marblehead Community Center, 10 Humphrey Street, Marblehead, MA
Linda A. Rice Collins                                       2015
Robert F. Jackson                                           2015
Derek Y. Norcross                                           2015
Charles Edward Osborne, Jr.                                 2015
Gerald P. Tucker, Jr.                                       2015

SCHOOL COMMITTEE
--Mary A. Alley Building, Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                         Term Expires
Michael K. Murphy                                            2017
Susanna Pierce Pratt                                         2017
Meredith M. Tedford                                          2016




                                    81
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Kathleen E. Leonardson                              2016
William C. Ackerman, II                             2015

WATER & SEWER COMMISSION
--Tower Way, Marblehead MA 01945                 Term Expires
John P. Doane                                       2017
Bradford Nick Freeman, Jr.                          2017
Wilbur E. Bassett                                   2016
F. Carlton Siegel                                   2016
R. Thomas Hammond                                   2015




                                   82
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                       APPOINTED OFFICIALS


TOWN ADMINISTRATOR
Jeff A. Chelgren

AMERICAN DISABILITIES ACT COORDINATOR
Kyle A. Wiley                                      2015

ANIMAL INSPECTOR at $2,400 per year
Isabel M. Lorenco                                  2015

BUILDING COMMISSIONER AND INSPECTORS
Commissioner - Robert S. Ives, Jr.                 2015
Local Inspector - Chris Butler                     2015
Local Inspector – Dan R. Williams                  2015
Plumbing Inspector – Bradford Smith                2015
Assistant Plumbing Inspector – Peter McCarriston   2015
Assistant Plumbing Inspector – Greg DiGiovanni     2015
Wiring Inspector – Ronald J. Marks                 2015
Assistant Wiring Inspector – Eric F.S. Chisholm    2015

CANINE CONTROL CLERK
Robin Michaud – Town Clerk                         2015

ASSISTANT DOG OFFICERS FOR THE PARKS
Robert Gillis                                      2015
Peter James                                        2015
Brad Delisle                                       2015
Mike Attridge                                      2015
Greg Snow                                          2015
Pat Sylvester                                      2015
Tim Short                                          2015

TOWN COUNSEL at $2,000 per year
Jeffrey N. Shribman                                2015
         Assistant Town Counsel:
         Brody, Hardoon, Perkins & Kesten          2015
         Leonard Kesten                            2015
         Marc J. Miller                            2015




                                     83
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


        Patrick J. Costello                         2015
        Blatman, Bobrowski & Mead, LLC              2015
        Francis Mayo                                2015

COUNCIL ON AGING DIRECTOR
Teri A. McDonough resigned October 2014             2015

EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR
Charles P. Cerrutti                                 2015
Wayne O. Attridge, Assistant                        2015

ENGINEERING AND CONSERVATION ADMINISTRATOR          2015
William C. Lanphear

FLAG OFFICER
David C. Rodgers                                    2015

FOREST WARDEN – Term: 1 Year
Chief Jason R. Gilliland, Fire Department           2015

HARBOR MASTER AND ASSISTANTS
Webb Russell, Harbor Master                         2015

        Craig Smith, First Assistant Harbormaster   2015
        Daniel Roads Jr., Assistant Harbormaster    2015

        Assistant Harbormasters (Seasonal):
        Ray Gauthier                                2015
        Jeffrey Flynn                               2015
        John Payne                                  2015
        Charles Cullanie                            2015
        Ryan Hoey                                   2015
        Alternates:
        John Vigneron                               2015
        Allen Dennis                                2015

KEEPER OF THE LOCK UP                               2015
Chief Robert O. Picariello




                                        84
               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


LICENSING AUTHORITY, DULY DESIGNATED AGENTS
Police Chief Robert O. Picariello                 2015
Captain: Matthew Freeman                          2015
Lieutenants:
           Jonathan Lunt                          2015
           Michael Everett                        2015
           David Ostrovitz                        2015
           Sean Sweeney                           2015
Sergeants:
Nicholas Economou                                 2015
           Sean Brady                             2015
           Jason Conrad                           2015

MEASURER OF LEATHER – Term: 1 year
John Smidt                                        2015

TOWN DESIGNEE MASS. WATER RESOURCE AUTHORITY
Term: 1 year
F. Carlton Siegel                                 2015
Alternate: Amy McHugh, Water and Sewer Department 2015

PARKING CLERK /HEARING CLERK – Term: 1 year
Jeffrey N. Shribman                               2015

CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER
Rebecca Curran Cutting                            2015

PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
David M. Donahue                                  2015

RETIREMENT BOARD – Term: 1 year
Charles H. Gessner                                2015

 “RIGHT TO KNOW” COORDINATOR – Term: 1 year
Jason R. Gilliland – Fire Department              2015

SEALER OF WEIGHTS & MEASURES
David C. Rodgers                                  2015




                             85
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


SPECIAL AUXILIARY POLICE
Patrolmen:
          James Donovan                             2015
          Betsy Cruger                              2015

SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS
Robert S. Ives, Jr.                                 2015

TAX COLLECTOR/TREASURER
Patricia Kelly Murray                               2015

VETERANS’ AGENT & DIRECTOR OF VETERANS’ SERVICES
Term: 1 year
David C. Rodgers                               2015

VETERANS’ GRAVES OFFICER Term: 1 year
David C. Rodgers                                    2015

WORKERS’ COMPENSATION AGENT Term: 1 year
Massachusetts Interlocal Insurance Association      2015

TOWN ACCOUNTANT– Term 3 years
John J. McGinn                                      2016

AFFORDABLE HOUSING TRUST FUND – Term 1 year
Board of Selectmen                                  2015
Vacant, Finance Committee Representative            2015
Kurt James, Fair Housing Committee Representative   2015
Vacant, At Large                                    2015
Vacant, At Large                                    2015

ARMED FORCES LIAISON– Term: 1 year
Harry C. Christensen                                2015

BOARD OF ABBOT LIBRARY SECOND CENTURY FUND –Term: 1 year
Peter Jalbert                                  2015
Judith Eissner                                 2015

CABLE TV OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE – LIAISON
Wayne Avridson                                      2015




                                86
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE – Term: 3 years               (staggered)

Thomas Gawrys                                                    2015
Edward Lang                                                      2015
Victor Wild                                                      2015
VACANT                                                           2016
Michael Auerbach                                                 2016
John J. McGinn – Ex Officio                                      2017

CO-CARETAKER, FORT BEACH – Term: 1 year
Jeffrey P. Flynn                                                 2015
Douglas Percy                                                    2015

CHAPLAIN – MARBLEHEAD POLICE DEPARTMENT – Term: 1 year
Rabbi Jonas Goldberg                            2015

CONSERVATION COMMISSION – Term: 3 years (staggered)
David Depew                                                      2015
David VanHoven                                                   2015
VACANT
Frederick Sullivan                                               2016
Ken Fisher                                                       2016
Don Tritschler                                                   2016
Brian LeClair                                                    2017

CONSTABLES
      for the Purpose of Serving Civil Process – Term: 1 year
Douglas Perry                                                    2015
Donald B. Hurwitz                                                2015
Paul Minsky                                                      2015
Thomas K. Egan                                                   2015

CONSTABLES
    Shellfish
Wayne O. Attridge – Chief Constable - 3 yr. term                 2016

Term: 1 Year
Raymond H. Bates, Jr.                                            2015
David Donahue                                                    2015




                                      87
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


R. Thomas Hamond                                                          2015
Jeffrey Flynn                                                             2015
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.                                                 2015
Jack Attridge                                                             2015
Rick Cuzner                                                               2015
Susan Hogan                                                               2015
Douglas Aikman                                                            2015
Douglas Percy                                                             2015
F. Webb Russell                                                           2015

COUNCIL ON AGING – Term: 3 years
Clyde Elledge                                                             2015
Catherine Brown                                                           2015
Freda Hoyt McGuire                                                        2015
Lisa Hooper                                                               2016
Dana Denault                                                              2016
Peggy Munro                                                               2016
Maureen Horan                                                             2017
Rosaleen Doherty                                                          2017
Pam Foye         resigned 10.1.14 to take interim COA director position   2017

DESIGN REVIEW BOARD – Term: 3 years
Ralph Khouri                                                              2017


DOLLARS FOR SCHOLARS – Term: 1 year
Helaine Hazlett                                                           2015
Nancy Marrs                                                               2015
Tom Despres                                                               2015
Deborah Green                                                             2015
George Gearhart                                                           2015
Mary Ellen Hart                                                           2015
Day Newburg                                                               2015
Maryann Perry, School Superintendent                                      2015

EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES COUNCIL – Term: 1 year
Jason R. Gilliland– Marblehead Fire Department    2015

FAIR HOUSING COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Paul Crosby, Marblehead Counseling Center                                 2015




                                              88
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Joan McIntyre                                      2015
Virginia Healy-Kenney                              2015
Ann Cohen                                          2015
Don Davies                                         2015
Janet Robinson                                     2015
Vacant                                             2015
Alex Finigan      appt. 10/1/14                    2015
Mimi Hollister                                     2015
Charlene Tyler                                     2015
Jim Vipperman                                      2015
Kurt James , Planning Board Representative         2015

FENCE VIEWERS – Term: 1 year
Vacant                                             2014

FINANCE COMMITTEE – Term: 3 years
Patricia Moore                                     2016
Matthew Herring                                    2016
Emily Belfbecker                                   2016
Moses Grader                                       2017
Richard Doron                                      2017
W. Paul Pruett                                     2017
Blair Nelson     appt. 12.10.14                    2015
VACANT                                             2015
Benjamin S. Berman                                 2015
Robert Ross – Clerk

FIREWORKS COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Alexander Falk                                     2015

FORT SEWALL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
VACANT, Marblehead Museum and Historical Society   2015
Joyce Booth, Historical Commission                 2015
Brenda Arnold (OMIA Rep.)                          2015
Vacant (OHDC Rep.)                                 2015
Lloyd H. Caswell, Disabilities Commission          2015
Rebecca Curran Cutting, Town Planner               2015
VACANT, Recreation and Parks Department            2015
Larry Sands, Glover’s Regiment                     2015
VACANT, at large                                   2015




                                      89
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


VACANT, at large                                        2015

HARBORS & WATERS BOARD – Term: 1 year
John Doub                                               2015
Gary P. Gregory                                         2015
Jay Michaud                                             2015
Kenneth Breen                                           2015
Douglas O’Leary                                         2015
Alternates:
                Rick Williams                           2015
                Rick Cuzner                             2015
                T. Clark Smith                          2015

HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
TEAM - Term: 1 year
Charles P. Cerrutti, Emergency Management Director           2015
William Lanphear, Engineering and Conservation Administrator 2015
Amy McHugh, Superintendent, Water and Sewer Commission       2015
Rebecca Curran Cutting, Town Planner                         2015
William E. Conly, Historical Commission                      2015

HISTORIAN – Term: 1 year
Elizabeth Hunt                                          2015

HISTORICAL COMMISSION – Term: 3 years (staggered)
William E. Conly                                        2016
Douglas O’Leary                                         2016
Paul C. Johnston                                        2017
Peter Stacey     appt. 8.13.14                          2017
Don Gardner                                             2017
Joyce L. Booth                                          2015
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.                               2015

HOBBS MEMORIAL, SELECTMEN’S AGENT – Term: 1 year
Ben Day   appt. 10.1.14                                 2015

LOGAN AIRPORT COMMUNITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE, INC. (CAC)
Charles H. Gessner                           2015




                                90
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


MARBLEHEAD CULTURAL COUNCIL – Term: 3 years (staggered)
Jonathan Green                                       2015
Virginia von Rueden                                  2015
Joyce Mayer Clark                                    2015
Linda Hall                                           2015
VACANT                                               2016
VACANT                                               2016
Doug Hill                                            2016
Louise Weber                                         2016
VACANT                                               2017
VACANT                                               2017
Howard Rosenkrantz                                   2017
Hazel Grenham, Chair                                 2017

MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY ACCESS AND MEDIA, INC. Term: 3 years
Ed Bell                                        2015

MARBLEHEAD DISABILITIES COMMISSION – Term: 3 years (staggered)
Mark Horrigan                                        2016
Andrea Mountain                                      2016
Caroline Curtis                                      2016
Lloyd Caswell                                        2017
Katie Farrell                                        2017
Laurie Blaisdell                                     2017
Ed Lang                                              2015
Fraffie Welch                                        2015
Ron Grenier                                          2015
(Elected Official rotating)                          2017

MARBLEHEAD FOREVER COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Fraffie Welch                                         2015
Andrew G. Christensen                                 2015
Linda W. Doliber                                      2015
Kerry O’Shaughnessy                                   2015
Kyle A. Wiley                                         2015

MASSACHUSETTS ETHICS COMMISSION
MUNICIPAL LIAISON
Jeffrey N. Shribman                                   2015




                               91
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



MBTA ADVISORY BOARD – Term: 1 year
John Heffernan                                        2015

METROPOLITAN AREA PLANNING COUNCIL – Term: 3 years
James E. Bishop                                    2017
Rebecca Curran Cutting, Alternate                  2017

OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISSION– Term: 1 year
Liz Mitchell
VACANT                                              2015
Charles Hibbard                                     2015
Sally Sands                                         2015
Anthony M. Sasso                                    2015
Alternates:
         Julia Glass                                2015
         Gary Amberik                               2015

OLD BURIAL HILL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Bette Hunt                                         2015
Susan Hogan                                        2015
Chris Butler                                       2015
Pam Peterson                                       2015
Richard Coletti, Cemetery Representative           2015
Rebecca Curran Cutting, Town Planner               2015

PLANNING BOARD – Term: 3 Years
Rosanna Ferranti, Associate Member appt. 11/12/14     2017

REGISTRARS OF VOTERS– Term: 3 years
Robin Michaud (Town Clerk)                            2016
J. Michael Canniffe                                   2016
Joyce H. Lofmark                                      2015
Donald A. Doliber                                     2017

SISTER CITY LIAISON – Grasse, France – Term: 1 year
Myriam Zuber                                          2015

SMART GROWTH COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Vacant                                                2015




                                     92
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Kurt James                                                      2015
Vacant                                                          2015
Michael McCloskey                                               2015
Don Morgan                                                      2015
VACANT                                                          2015
Judith R. Jacobi                                                2015
Rebecca Curran Cutting, Town Planner                            2015

TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION – Term: 1 year
Helaine Hazlett                                                 2015
Ann Marie Hunter                                                2015
Harvey Michaels                                                 2015
Deacon John E. Whipple                                          2015
Monica Tecca                                                    2015
Judy Luise                                                      2015
Loren Weston                                                    2015
Michael Katzen                                                  2015
Edmund Grogan                                                   2015
Rebecca Neuman Hammond                                          2015
Chief Robert Picariello, Ex-officio                             2015

TAXATION AID COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Pamela Foye                                                     2015
Teri A. McDonough         resigned October 2014                 2015
Patricia Kelly Murray, Treasurer                                2015
John Kelley, Chairman Board of Assessors                        2015

TOWN PHYSICIAN – Term: 1 year
Quadrant Health Strategies                                      2015

TRAFFIC & SAFETY ADVISORY COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
John P. Doane                                                    2015
Brian Hitchcock                                                  2015
F. Carlton Siegel                                                2015
Chief Jason R. Gilliland – Fire Department – Ex Officio          2015
Chief Robert O. Picariello – Police Department – Ex Officio 2015

TREE WARDEN - Term: 3 years
Doug Gordon                                                     2015




                                       93
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


  Vital Records Recorded in 2014


      Births Recorded - 145


     Marriages Recorded - 76


      Deaths Recorded - 186




               95
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                        ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY

The longstanding need to provide improved space for Children’s Services was a
focus for the Library’s Director and Board of Trustees, during much of 2014. After
several years of informally exploring the possibility of relocating the Library’s
Children’s Services to the former Sundance Preschool, at 247 Pleasant Street, a
formal effort to purchase the property was undertaken by the Library Board in
partnership with the Town’s Board of Selectmen.

After determining that purchase of the property at 247 Pleasant Street would not be
possible at this time, the Library Director and Board, with the Selectmen,
investigated the status of the other property adjacent to the Library, the residential
structure at 243 Pleasant Street. As the owner did not wish to consider the sale of
this property, the Trustees and Director proceeded to concentrate on renovating the
existing building.

Given that the last significant renovation was completed twenty-five years ago,
many areas of the current building, including the Children’s Services space,
seriously need updating, to accommodate the changing role of the public library and
to anticipate future changes, especially as technology continues to evolve. Our first
step in the Library renovation project was to work with Town Planner Rebecca
Curran Cutting to prepare a Request for Proposals (RFP) for Designer Services.
The scope of requested services was stated as including, but not limited to, the
following project goals:

                 An independent assessment which will assist the Town in locating
                  and designing space for the provision of world-class library
                  service to children and teens.

                 Develop spaces for adult services and staff functions, as needed,
                  in conjunction with design of youth service spaces, as above.

                 Address space needs of Friends of Abbot Library.

                 Reconnect walled “Secret Garden” (on Maverick St.) to interior
                  building spaces.

                 Observe “universal design” and “green” architecture standards in
                  all design proposals.




                                         96
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



                 Resolve all issues of water penetration of the building.

                 Ensure an effective and dependable HVAC system, equally
                  serving all areas of the building.

                 Provide detailed timeline for project and effective plan for
                  continuing service during renovation project period.

                 The architect will define the required functions including
                  estimated square footage and location of each usage type and any
                  other elements that achieve the project goals.

The RFP then was posted in the Massachusetts Central Register, on Wednesday,
October 15th, and in the Marblehead Reporter on Thursday, October 16th.

After offering two walkthroughs of the Library building for interested architects,
eleven proposals were received by the November 5th deadline. From the eleven,
four finalists were selected, for interviewing by the Library Board and Library
Director, in December. The Board will complete the process of hiring an
architectural firm for the renovation project in early 2015.

As always, the Library seeks opportunities to make its services more user-friendly.
In February, a completely redesigned version of our website was introduced. Our
goal was to make the site’s content easy to locate and navigate, and to lay a
foundation for further enhancements. We have been pleased to receive consistently
positive feedback from users, regarding the new design.

Another change, to benefit users, was the elimination of rental fees for all “non-
fiction” DVDs, meaning that all DVDs, except feature films, may now be borrowed
without charge. This policy applies to adult, teen and children’s DVDs.

Finally, although not particularly noticeable to the public, the Library staff
continued a massive project, duplicating and relocating barcodes on all circulating
materials, to increase the efficiency of interlibrary transport among the twenty-eight
NOBLE (North of Boston Library Exchange) libraries. To date, duplicate bar-codes
have been produced for, and attached to, 80,000 items.

This year, we continued to present an extremely full schedule of programs and
activities, for community members of all ages. Our 60 programs for adults, in 2014,




                                         97
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


were attended by a total of over 2100 guests, represented a wide variety of topics,
and included both new and ongoing collaborations.

One new and very meaningful collaboration, for the Library, involved three
different ways of contributing to the Marblehead Task Force against
Discrimination’s 25th Anniversary Year celebration. In January, the Library
mounted book displays on the main level, and in the Young Adult’s and Children’s
Rooms, reflecting the theme, “Walk in Someone Else’s Shoes.” In May, we
partnered with the Task Force to host a screening of short films by Raw Art Works.
Several of the teenaged filmmakers were present, to discuss their work. Then, in
June, the Library, the Task Force Against Discrimination, and the Marblehead
Historical Museum collaborated to present the exhibit, “The Abolitionist Movement
and The Underground Railroad in Marblehead,” in the Library’s Virginia A. Carten
Gallery. The exhibit, partially funded by the Harold B. and Elizabeth L. Shattuck
Fund, was promoted with a public reception, including “Joe Froggers,” donated by
Shubie’s Marketplace, as refreshments.

Another new collaboration, with the Essex County Greenbelt, led to an exciting
combination of a month-long exhibit and related lecture, in October. The exhibit,
“Greenbelt: Essex County’s Land Trust and its Osprey Program,” presented a visual
exploration of local land conservation, complemented by the work of local artists
who participate in Greenbelt’s annual “Art in the Barn” Exhibition and Sale. On
October 22nd, a public reception, followed by a lecture, “Ospreys in Essex County:
The Dramatic Comeback Story of this Magnificent Bird of Prey,” presented by
Dave Rimmer, Greenbelt’s Director of Land Stewardship, attracted a crowd of 65
attendees.

New collaborations with local businesses have proven to be mutually beneficial.
Library Director Patti Rogers and business owner, Jac Bentley, of Bentley
Financial, developed and presented a series of programs, designed to bring greater
clarity to the often overwhelming topic of long-term care. Three programs featured
local experts speaking about their individual areas of specialization.

       In March, Connie Paullis, Executive Director of Devereux House Skilled
        Nursing and Rehabilitation (Marblehead), spoke about the services offered
        at this facility.
       In July, we presented, “Long-Term Care - The Home Care Option,” with
        two speakers from Private Home Health Care (Marblehead): Mary
        Demakes, Founder and Owner, and Bonnie Akerson, Director of Business
        Development and Marketing.




                                        98
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


       In September, Carolyn Fitzpatrick, Director of Community Relations,
        Putnam Farm at Danvers, was the main presenter for “Strategic Aging: The
        Assisted Living Lifestyle Option.” At each program, Jac Bentley discussed
        and compared a variety of long-term care insurance products.

We also worked with Monique Illona, of Hand-in-Hand Massage and the Dual Path
Institute (Marblehead), to develop programming related to her recently published
book, “A Dual Path: Sacred Practices & Bodywork.” A series of three programs
were presented in October, November and December: “The Dual Path to Finding
and Returning to Your Center”; “Honoring Our Wake-Up Calls”; and “Dual Path
Meditation: The Practical Application of Meditation to Everyday Interactions.”

Another quite different collaboration with a Marblehead business was the
production, by Hestia Creations, of a miniature of our current building, as part of
Hestia's series of notable Marblehead buildings in miniature, available for sale. We
are pleased to have our building honored in this way!

The Library also continued its past collaborations with numerous local
organizations, in 2014, including:
     The extremely popular “Underwater in Salem Sound” Lecture Series, co-
         sponsored by the Library and Salem Sound Coastwatch, in 2013, continued
         with a second series of five lectures, in 2014. Funded in part by a grant
         from the Massachusetts Environmental Trust (MET), the speakers included
         top researchers and academics on the topic of each program
              o January: “Winter Waterfowl at the ‘Salem Sound Underwater
                   Diner’!” with Dr. Robert Buchsbaum, Conservation Scientist,
                   Massachusetts Audubon Society
              o February: “History Revealed by the Sea Floor,” with Dr. Brad
                   Hubeny, Professor of Geological Sciences, Salem State University
              o March: “Changing Climate, Changing Fishes,” with Dr. Michael
                   Armstrong, Assistant Director, Massachusetts Division of Marine
                   Fisheries
              o April: “Shellfish, Shellfish Everywhere and Not a Clam to Eat!”
                   with Barbara Warren, Executive Director, Salem Sound
                   Coastwatch
              o June: “The Color and Beauty of New England’s Underwater
                   World,” with Andrew Martinez, Diver, Author and Underwater
                   Photographer




                                        99
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


        In its 4th year, the Library's partnership with the Marblehead Conservancy
         focused on the creation of a special event on the occasion of the
         Conservancy’s Annual Meeting. An exhibit in the Virginia A. Carten
         Gallery, “Wildflowers of Marblehead: Photographs by Dennis Curtin,” on
         view throughout the month of March, set the stage for a public reception
         and lecture, “Genetic Diversity in the Landscape,” by Mark Richardson,
         Director of Horticulture, New England Wild Flower Society (NEWFS), on
         the evening of March 25th. The choice of Richardson as speaker also
         highlighted the Conservancy’s recent donation of a membership in
         NEWFS to the Library, including circulating discounted passes to the
         Society’s “Garden in the Woods,” in Framingham. Partial funding for
         Denny Curtin’s exhibit was provided by funds from the Library’s Elizabeth
         J. Houghton Memorial Account.

        In 2014, we continued our participation, begun last year, in the Marblehead
         Festival of Arts, as a venue for Film Festival programs. Once again, the
         Library hosted an indoor screening of the program of short films, presented
         outdoors at the beginning of the Festival, and two workshops by
         filmmakers, “3D Animation – A Primer with Ben Albarelli” and “Making
         the 10-Minute Movie,” with Keith Wasserman. This partnership will
         continue and expand, in 2015, with the Library serving as venue for both
         the Winter and Summer Film Festival programs.

        Beginning in 2010, the Library has presented a solo exhibit of the work of
         the artist chosen to create the “logo art” for the Rotary Club of Marblehead
         Harbor’s Holiday Pops Concert. This year, well-known local artist Martha
         Quigley was featured, and a public unveiling of the original logo art was
         held on November 5th.

Once again, the Library offered both ongoing and special programs for young
people of all ages, from infants through high school. Continuing favorites included
our "Itsy Bitsy Infants and Terrific Toddlers," playgroup; "Monday Night Chess
Club," with instruction by chess master Mikhail Perelsteyn, for both beginning and
advanced players; "Music with Dara," offered in separate sessions for toddlers and
preschoolers; regular preschool story and craft programs; a Lego Club for children
in grades 1 through 6; and a multi-session theatre art program, for third- and fourth-
graders, taught by Stage Director and Playwright Dace Micane Zalite. In addition,
special tea parties with fun themes were offered for preschoolers, and a fashion
show of paper costumes was organized for school-aged children. Teens attended
movie and cupcake decorating programs as well as a presentation on college




                                        100
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


financial planning. The 2014 Summer Reading Programs for children and teens
each featured STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) materials and
activities.

In 2014, we continued to present a series of twelve month-long exhibits in the
Library’s Virginia A. Carten Gallery, as well as two additional exhibits, installed in
the Meeting Room space. Individual and group shows presented a variety of media,
including drawings, paintings, photographs, textiles and sculpture.
      January: “Remembrance: The Pink Chair Project,” paintings by Lynne
         Schulte, in the Carten Gallery, and, in the Meeting Room, an exhibit of
         thirteen prize-winning photographs from Salem Sound Coastwatch’s 2012-
         2013 Watershed Photo Contest: “Salem Sound: A Sense of Place,” in
         conjunction with the “Underwater in Salem Sound” Lecture Series
      February: The Swampscott Arts Association Winter Show
      March: “Wildflowers of Marblehead; Photographs by Dennis Curtin”
      April: “Songs: Photographs by Karen Gourley Lehman”
      May: The Marblehead High School Senior Art Show, the sixth year of this
         annual collaboration
      June: “The Abolitionist Movement and The Underground Railroad in
         Marblehead”
      July: In the Carten Gallery, “Artists Anonymous,” students of Cape Ann
         artist Ron Straka, and “The Wild Horses, Bulls and Cowboys of La
         Camargue, France: Photographs by Susan Ogan,” in the Meeting Room
      August: “Alex Neyman: Watercolors; Tatiana Kriveshko: Drawings”
      September: “Rainbow of Quilts: Part Two: New Quilts by Margarita
         Blumkina”
      October: “Greenbelt: Essex County’s Land Trust and its Osprey Program”
      November: “Marblehead and Beyond: Paintings by Martha Quigley”
      in December, “Street Life in India: Photographs by Yefim Kogan”

In October, after many years of living with the unattractiveness of three utility
boxes on the Library’s front lawn, the Library engaged a group of Marblehead High
School National Art Honors Society students to decorate these boxes, with designs
drawn up by them several months earlier. The project was undertaken as part of the
community service mission of NAHS, and was funded by the Friends of Abbot
Library, with seed money from Marblehead resident Fred Goddard. The community
has welcomed this beautification effort.

May 2014 brought change to the Library Board of Trustees. Long-serving board
members Susan Indresano and Jean Howe chose not to run for re-election and Phil




                                        101
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Sweeney, Chairman of the Board of Trustees, passed away on May 22 after a brief
illness. Phil Sweeney was a very active civil servant who also led the Marblehead
Municipal Light Department Commission. Maura Phelan Murnane, formerly Vice
Chair of the Board, was chosen to serve as Chairman. Ann McGreevy and Zachary
Newall were voted into office in the May 2014 election while Phyllis Smith and
Judy Gates retained their seats. Lauren Fogle Boyd joined the Board in August
when she was appointed by the Board of Selectman to serve out the year in the seat
vacated by Phil Sweeney.

There were some significant staff transitions as well. In October, Virginia
("Ginny") Symmes retired from her position as Part-time Library Assistant
(Processing Assistant), after 17 years. Before joining the Library staff, Ginny was a
member of the Town's Bicentennial Commission, served as a volunteer for
Marblehead's 350th Anniversary Celebration, and worked in the Town's Financial
Services Department. We wish Ginny many relaxing and enjoyable years of
retirement ahead!

Siobhan Webber joined the staff as Young Adult Librarian, replacing Abby Porter
who resigned in July. Siobhan received her Bachelor's and Master's degrees in
Information Science from the University of Albany. Her professional experience
has included work with children's, teen and adult services, at the Albany (NY)
Public Library. Her graduate internship was in the Library's Teen Department,
where she was involved with collection development, reader's advisory and
reference services, and programming. In 2014, as in past years, we welcome the
opportunity to express our gratitude for the many important contributions to the
Library, by individuals and groups.

This year, the Library was extremely fortunate to receive a very generous donation
of nearly two hundred nautical books from Judith and Bruce Eissner. These notable
volumes will significantly enhance this valued area of our collections.

Volunteers who donate their time to the delivery and pick-up of Library materials
for temporarily or permanently housebound community members make our
"Connecting" service possible. Other volunteers do the sometimes tedious, but
extremely important, work of making sure books are in proper order on the shelves.

A special appreciation goes to the Friends of Abbot Library, who work tirelessly to
present their massive quarterly book sales, which provide the funds for our
children's programs, and for our discounted museum passes as well as the software
that allows these passes to be reserved online.




                                        102
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



We also thank the Driftwood Garden Club for their dedicated care of our gardens
and landscaping. Their additions of beauty to our setting are greatly enjoyed by all.

Respectfully submitted,


Maura Phelan Murnane, Chairperson
Patricia Rogers, Director




                                        103
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                   ABBOT LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Maura K. Murnane., Chair             Term expires 2016
Phyllis B. Smith, Vice Chair         Term expires 2015
Judy Gates, Secretary                Term expires 2015
Lauren Fogel Boyd                    Term expires 2015
Dr. Ann McGreevy                     Term expires 2017
Zach Newell                          Term expires 2017


                            ABBOT LIBRARY STAFF
Patricia J. Rogers                      Director
Ann E. Thornton                         Assistant Director
Christine Evans                         Technical Services Librarian
Marcia Cannon                           Children’s Librarian
Siobhan Webber                          Youth Librarian
Jonathan Randolph                       Adult Librarian
Mary Starrett                           Senior Clerk
Elena Minayev                           Para-Professional
Catherine Jamieson                      Library Coordinator/Circulation
Cassandra Sprague, Part-Time            Program and Volunteer Coordinator
Anne Thornton                           Library Technician
Christopher Tremblay                    Library Tech. Assistant
Stephanie Miller, Part-Time             Library Tech. Assistant
Carole Brindamour, Part-Time            Sr. Library Assistant
Joan Kessel, Part-Time                  Sr. Library Assistant
Angelique Elser, Temp. Part-Time        Library Assistant
Cassandra Sprague, Temp. Part-Time      Library Assistant
Franny McKeever, Temp. Part-Time        Library Assistant
Kelly Whalen, Temp. Part-Time           Library Assistant


                              CUSTODIANS
Richard Leahy                         Custodian


                                 PAGES
Kira Goldman
Amber Santman
Samantha Sprague




                                   104
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                         BOARD OF ASSESSORS

The Board of Assessors functions according to State mandated legislation. The
principal duty of the Board is to determine the “fair cash value” of all real and
personal property within the Town of Marblehead on an annual basis.

The assessing staff, under the supervision and review of the Board of Assessors
performs all duties. Our primary goal is to ensure fair and equitable assessments,
administer the statutory exemptions available to the elderly, blind, disabled, and
veterans. Additionally, the department is responsible for issuing motor vehicle
excise based upon the Registry of Motor Vehicles values provided to the assessor’s
office. The assessors also administer boat excise tax based upon the State formula
and after receiving the required information from the boat owner via the return of
form 2BE, which must be filed annually at the assessor’s office.

Under the quarterly tax billing procedure, the filing deadline for abatements is
February 1, (third quarter tax bill due date). The filing deadline for statutory
exemptions according to Massachusetts General Law is three months from the
mailing of the third quarter tax bill. Tax law and guidelines for exemptions are
constantly changing. We urge all taxpayers who may have questions regarding
abatements or exemption to contact the Assessor’s Office.

John P. Kelley was elected once again to a 3 year term. Mr. Kelley has served on
the Board for more than 35 years, with only a brief hiatus in the early 1990’s. John
was once again unanimously nominated to serve as chairman.

Assessments for the average single family dwelling increased 4.3% to $692,165,
and the median single family assessment increased 7.2% to $516,000. The average
tax bill increased 4.2% to $7,669, and the median single family tax bill increased
7.1% to $5,717. The classification hearing held on November 12, 2014, resulted in
a single tax rate of $11.08 per thousand of value.

The Board of Assessor’s granted a total of $123,849.99 of statutory exemptions to
165 qualified seniors, veterans, and blind applicants.




                                       105
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


The following is the breakdown of value by class and the respective tax levy as well
as the pertinent data for motor vehicle and boat excise tax.

CLASS                                 VALUATION                TAX LEVY

Residential       .9478%              $5,048,269,078           $55,934,821.53
Commercial        .0389 %             $ 207,099,668            $ 2,294,664.38
Industrial        .003 %              $ 16,058,600             $ 177,929.27
Personal Property .01%                $ 54,855,310             $ 607,796.76

TOTAL               100%              $5,326,282,656           $59,015,211.94


EXCISE TAX

MOTOR VEHICLE                      #BILLS              TAX ASSESSED

2014 EXCISE                        21,183              $3,318,147.48


BOAT EXCISE                        2173                $146,374.00



Respectfully Submitted,

Board of Assessors
John P. Kelley, Chair
Douglas E. Percy, Secretary
William J. Willis, Jr.
Michael A. Tumulty, MAA, Asst. Assessor

Office Staff
Leslie T. George, MAA, Administrative Assessor
Debra J. Long, Senior Clerk




                                       106
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                           BOARD OF HEALTH

The Marblehead Board of Health met in formal session on twenty two (22)
occasions including the annual Town Meeting. Meetings were properly and duly
posted with the Town Clerk. BOH Members and staff also attended numerous
meetings pertaining to finance, collaboration, communicable disease, bio-terrorism,
tobacco control, grant application, sanitation code updates, environmental issues,
continuing education, emergency preparedness, as well as other public health-
related issues including numerous hours devoted to capping the landfill and
designing a new transfer station.

REPORTED COMMUNICABLE DISEASES – 2014
Campylobacteriosis                                  9
Cryptosporidiosis                                   1
Ehrlichiosis                                        0
Giardiasis                                          0
Group B Streptococcus                               3
Group A Streptococcus                               2
Haemophilus Influenza                               0
Hepatitis A (suspect)                               0
Hepatitis C (chronic)                               7
Human Granulocytic Anaplasmosis                     0
Influenza                                           11
Legionellosis                                       1
Lyme Disease                                        7
Pertussis                                           7
Salmonellosis                                       9
Strep Pneumonia                                     0
Toxoplasmosis                                       0
Varicella                                           1
Shigella                                            1


As with all communicable disease reports, an extensive follow-up investigation is
conducted to determine the source and possible cause of the illness. All food-borne
illnesses (Campylobacter, Giardia, Hepatitis A, Salmonella) require public health
response.




                                       107
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                IMMUNIZATIONS GIVEN IN OFFICE
Pneumovax (PPSV)                                     0
Hepatitis A                                          0
Hepatitis B                                          0
Influenza                                            33
T dap                                                0
Td                                                   0
Varicella                                            0

Immunizations are offered by appointment only at the Board of Health office.

2014 PUBLIC FLU CLINICS
October 3                                            41
October 8                                            250
October 22                                           205
October 28                                           167
Vaccine Administered                                 693

The Marblehead Board of Health was allotted 600 doses and purchased an
additional 100 doses of flu vaccine for the 2013-2014 flu season. The vaccine was
available to all residents, ages 5 years to adult. Four clinics were held in town at
various times and locations, including evenings to accommodate all residents.
Office visits were conducted by appointment.

BLOOD PRESSURE SCREENING
BP monitoring is conducted Monday through Friday from 8:00 A.M. to 12:00 noon
at the Board of Health office by appointment only. Additionally, the Public Health
Nurse is at the Marblehead COA on most Thursdays between 11:00 AM-12:00 noon
to conduct a blood pressure clinic.

                      INSPECTIONAL SERVICES
All food service and retail food establishments are required by the MDPH to be
inspected bi-annually. Additionally, walk-through inspections (a less formal visual
inspection for those establishments the Board has received complaints, or that are
making physical changes, or to address any type of problem that may arise during
the year) are conducted at the Board of Health’s discretion.




                                       108
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



Beach samples are taken on a weekly basis from June through September. Test
results were consistently within beach testing standards set forth under 105 CMR
Sect. 445.000 throughout the summer for each of the five sites. Public and
semipublic pools are monitored for mandatory on-site quality control and proper
management as required by MA 105 CMR 435.000 Minimum Standards for
Swimming Pools.

ESTABLISHMENTS REGULARLY INSPECTED
Nursing Homes                                      2
Food Service Establishments                        60
Retail Food Service Establishments                 29
Houses of Worship                                  6
Private Clubs                                      12
School Cafeterias                                  4
Schools with Satellite Programs                    5
Private Schools                                    1
Carnivals W/3 Mobile Service Units                 4
Ice Cream Trucks/Boat                              2
Mobile Food Service Trucks                         1
Hot Dog Push Carts                                 1
Year-round Swimming Pools                          1
Seasonal Swimming Pools                            6
Arts Festival Food Fair                            8
Bakeries                                           2
Caterers                                           6
Residential Kitchens                               3
One Day Permits                                    31
Food Establishment Closing Inspection              4
Food Establishment Opening Inspection              7
New Business/Change of Ownership                   8
Food Inspections                                   214
Re-Inspection Compliance                           40
Foodborne Illness Investigation                    0
Fire Incidents Requiring Inspection                2
Day Camp Inspections                               10




                                     109
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                          INSPECTIONS REQUIRED
Water, Beach, Pool, Drain & Stream Samples          93
Asbestos Inquiry, Complaints/Removal Of             11
Lead Paint Tests                                    1
Lead Paint Follow-Up                                1
Food and Retail Service Complaints                  10
General Nuisance                                    3
Air, Noise, and Odor Complaints                     5
Housing Complaints                                  5
Exterior Sanding                                    6
Oil Spill Incidents                                 2
Mold                                                4

ORGANIC PEST MANAGEMENT
The Board of Health adopted an Organic Pest Management Policy in 2005 for all
town-owned lands and recommends that residents follow the Board of Health
guidelines for their health and well-being.

SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
Marblehead is continually working to maximize waste reduction, recycling and
composting, to ensure the safe management, reuse and disposal of solid and
hazardous waste. It is a difficult task to address the environmental and increasing
cost controls placed on the town by state and federal agencies. We need to focus on
decreasing the amount of waste we generate and increasing the amount we recycle.
      Marblehead generated 9,415 tons of trash in 2014
      Marblehead recycled a total of 2515 tons of paper, commingled material,
         cardboard, metal, and Swap Shed material out of the waste stream,
         realizing diversion savings of $226,802.70.
      3,250 gallons of waste oil were collected for processing. (This includes
         town garages).
         1,110 Televisions and 180 Computer Monitors were recycled.
      Two Household Hazardous Waste Days were conducted jointly with the
         Town of Swampscott. Materials were collected from over 189 households,
         removing a total of 3,755 gallons of Hazardous Waste.
      3.8 Tons of electronics were removed from the waste stream and ethically
         recycled.




                                       110
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014




Single-use checkout bags and expanded polystyrene food and beverage containers
have significant detrimental impacts on the environment and our health. In May,
2014 voters at Town Meeting approved the Board of Health’s Article 28 and 29,
which will phase out the point-of-sale plastic bags measuring 2.99 mm or less and
polystyrene containers, respectively. Local businesses will have 12 months, until
May, 2015, to stop using these materials.

To encourage the use of reusable bags, the Board held a design contest in the public
schools. High school student Louisa Gould created the winning logo, which was
printed on bags that are available for purchase in the Board of Health office and at
the Farmer’s Market.

RECYCLING COMMITTEE
The Recycling Committee is a valuable volunteer resource for the Town. The
Committee members at the booth at the Farmers Market who sell compost bins,
recycling bins, reusable bags and rain barrels are to be commended. The Committee
advocates and supports local initiatives to promote solid waste reduction, re-use,
recycling, composting and hazardous waste recycling in Marblehead through
outreach, education and other programs and projects. They were of great assistance
during the two Zero Waste Collection days which included the collection of
Hazardous Household Waste, Electronics and Styrofoam/Polystyrene.

COMPOSTING AND YARD WASTE DISPOSAL

    2014 organic matter, vegetation, brush, wood waste generation and processing
    figures:
            Leaves & grass: 12,500 cubic yards = 3750.00tons.
          Woodchips (Town Tree Department): 5,400 cubic yards = 1,350 tons.
          Brush: 8,600 cubic yards = 1,075 tons.

SOLID WASTE FACILITY COMMITTEE
Since its appointment by the Board of Health in the fall of 2010 the Solid Waste
Facility Committee has continued to work diligently to close the landfill and build a
new transfer station. For budgetary reason the project has been split into two
phases, Landfill Closure and Transfer Station Construction. Construction of the
landfill closure began in August and is anticipated to last into the summer of 2015.




                                        111
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Winter Street Architects were hired to review the building and have reduced the
overall size of the building which has reduced the costs. We owe this committee of
dedicated volunteers a tremendous amount of gratitude for their time and expertise.

SWAP SHED
The Swap Shed at the Transfer Station continues to be very popular and, more
importantly, a very useful way to re-using many different types of household items.
Due to construction the swap shed is temporarily closed and will reopen once the
landfill project is completed. The staff of hearty volunteers that operates, organizes,
and performs crowd control every Saturday is to be commended. The Board wishes
to recognize these volunteers and express its appreciation for their efforts to reduce
solid waste tonnage.

North Shore/Cape Ann Tobacco Alcohol Policy Program
Marblehead 2014 Annual Report
In accordance with grant requirements, the North Shore/Cape Ann Tobacco Alcohol
Policy Program accomplished the following program Target and Milestones within the
Town of Marblehead.

Compliance Checks:
Date               No. of Establishments Checked            Compliance Achieved
8/21/ 2014          9 establishments were checked           88% rate was achieved
Inspections and Pricing Surveys:
In addition to the compliance checks, the North Shore/Cape Ann Tobacco Alcohol Policy
Program conducted one full round of retailer inspections at each permitted establishment
as well as a pricing survey to access pricing trends across the state.

HAWC (Healing Abuse Working for Change)
FY 2014 REPORT TO TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD
The mission of HAWC, founded in 1978, is to create social change by taking action
against personal and societal patterns of violence and oppression. HAWC provides
services and support to victims of domestic abuse residing in the 23 cities and towns
on the North Shore in order that they may make informed, independent decisions
about their futures.




                                         112
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


HAWC provides free, comprehensive services to victims of domestic violence and
their children including: a 24-hour hotline, emergency shelter, advocacy in courts,
police departments and healthcare settings; trauma recovery counseling for adults
and children; support groups; economic stability services; relocation and rental
assistance; prevention education in schools and communities. HAWC has five
office locations (Lynn, Salem, Gloucester, Beverly and Ipswich) with HAWC staff
out-stationed in hospitals, police departments, courts and schools. HAWC’s 24 paid
staff and 80 volunteers (after 40 hours of training) provided the following free and
confidential services:

If you or someone you know is living in fear of their partner, please call HAWC’s
24-hour, toll-free hotline at 800-547-1649. Contact and understanding from a
person outside the abusive relationship is often the one most important lifeline for a
person getting free from abuse. The more you know the more you see. You can
become part of the solution.

MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES
FISCAL YEAR 2014
         Now in its 45th year, the Marblehead Counseling Center (MCC) has
collaborated with the Board of Health to provide the Town counseling, education
and community service which have afforded people the opportunity to work with
highly trained professionals on personal or community issues and concerns.
Therapy is provided to any resident or town worker regardless of his/her ability to
pay a fee. Over and above the $60,000 provided by the Health Department, MCC
provided $22,225 of free counseling services.

         During fiscal year 2014, MCC provided direct therapy to over 328
different individuals who live or work in Marblehead for a total of 3,815 sessions
offered for individual, couple, family and group counseling (a 9% increase over last
year). Therapists continued to help seniors and others in their homes who, because
of infirmities, could not make it to traditional services. In addition, the Center
taught time-management classes for seniors at the Marblehead High School in their
preparation for entering college.

         Sometimes, our neighbors are hit hard financial times and families struggle
just to survive. MCC has become a place that people can get connected with
resources that will help them, whether it is paying overdue bills, assistance with
housing, or connections to medical and dental treatment. Throughout last year, 56
families for our town have received these social services from MCC’s social service




                                        113
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


aides. The Center also collaborated with the Making Ends Meet Foundation to get
over 100 children holiday presents.

        The Counseling Center has continued to encouraging the development of
healthy children in Marblehead. This year the Center has been working with
Marblehead For Teens and the YMCA to develop effective teen programming in
town.

NORTH SHORE-CAPE ANN EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
COALITION
The North Shore-Cape Ann Emergency Preparedness Coalition continues to work to
prepare its communities to respond to public health threats and emergencies, which
include terrorism and outbreaks of infectious diseases as well as emergencies
caused by a force of nature. This coalition, established in 2004, is a sub-coalition
within Region 3 of the Massachusetts Department of Public Health (MDPH)
regional Public Emergency Preparedness Coalitions and meets monthly. The
coalition receives limited funding from a grant provided by the CDC and is
mandated to attain certain standards in emergency preparedness. The North Shore-
Cape Ann Emergency Preparedness Coalition has established a website with
information for the public and links to other sites that can provide valuable
information to our residents. To date, the Board of Health has provided MDPH with
24/7 contact information, submitted a Continuity of Operations Plan, participated in
numerous drills, trainings and conferences, trained key personnel in NIMS
(National Incident Management System) and ICS (Incident Control System),
updated the All-Hazards Plan, and has submitted a template of our Special
Populations Plan. In 2008 the coalition began the process of a multi-year Training
and Exercise Plan. This plan will take us from learning about a specific scenario to a
full blown disaster drill incorporating all hazards plans and testing of the established
infrastructure.

The coalition is continuing the process of increasing our database of medical and
non-medical volunteers through our website and is offering training opportunities
for these volunteers. In the event of an infectious disease epidemic, pandemic, or a
natural disaster, volunteers will be greatly needed. Volunteers can register online
and/or by calling the Marblehead Board of Health. We urge residents to become
volunteers. Please log on to: www.nscalert.org or call the BOH at 781 631-0212 to
register as a volunteer and to learn more about our coalition.




                                         114
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


MARBLEHEAD.ORG WEBSITE
CODE RED EMERGENCY NOTIFICATION SYSTEM
News and notifications concerning public health, trash and recycling are posted in
timely fashion. This useful media tool allows the posting of links to sites relating to
public health, emergency planning, solid waste and beach water quality. A
subscription service on Marblehead.org allows people to sign up for email alerts
regarding solid waste, recycling, public health emergencies, as well as other
important Town information.

In closing, the Board of Health commends its office staff and transfer station staff
for their adaptability, dedication, and devotion to their positions and to the Town.

We are continuing to work with our neighbors with the creation of the North Shore
Shared Public Health Services Program. 'Using Environmental Health Tools to
Reduce Asthma: A Regional Approach was selected by the National Environmental
Health Association (NEHA) to be presented at the 2015 Annual Educational
Conference. Our long-term goals are to ensure that each community is successfully
and consistently meeting core mandates while striving to improve the overall health
of the region through regional approaches to service delivery and data-driven policy
changes.

The Board wishes to thank other Town Departments for assistance and cooperation
in the form of manpower, equipment, and other resources. The Board also thanks
Town Planner Rebecca Curran for her technical assistance. The Board of Health
and the Town are fortunate to have a willing and able group of volunteers who
assist in all aspects of our operation. The Board of Health thanks all those
volunteers.




                                         115
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


HEALTH OFFICE STAFF
Tracy Gialla, LPN, Public Health Nurse
Roberta Cody, Health Inspector
Andrea Flaxer, Senior Clerk

TRANSFER STATION STAFF
Peter Haskell, Leader Heavy Equipment Operator
Michael Louizos, Heavy Equipment Operator
Chris Monahan, Heavy Equipment Operator
Annette Louizos, Part-time Clerk
Kay Monahan, Special Clerk
Karen Patch, Part-time Clerk
Erik Hudak, Part-time Clerk


Respectfully Submitted,
Todd Belfbecker, D.M.D., Chairman
Helaine R. Hazlett, B.S.
Michelle Gottlieb, M.E.M.


Andrew H. Petty R.S.
Director of Public Health




                                         116
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


BUILDING COMMISSIONER & INSPECTIONAL SERVICES

The Inspectional Services Department ensures public safety, health and welfare by
regulating construction through Federal, State and Local Codes and By-Laws. The
Building Department, in conjunction with the Fire Prevention Office, conducts annual
inspections of public and private schools, churches and temples, day care centers, food
service establishments, nursing homes, and private clubs.

A total of 786 Building permits were issued in 2014 including those for the Abbot
Hall Clock Tower renovation project, and 17 new single family dwellings of which 9
involved the demolition of an existing building. The new Glover School was opened
for classes in February 2014, and the renovation of the Abbot Hall Clock Tower was
completed at the end of 2014.

Based on an estimated cost of construction of $41,422,522 this activity produced fees
of $568,491 for the General Fund. In addition new Electrical, Plumbing, and Gas
permits were issued which generated an additional $58,905 in inspectional fees.

The Department also issued 135 Roofing permits, 32 Sign permits, 36 tent permits
and 5 Stove permits, which produced an additional $6,240 in fees.

I would like to express appreciation to all of the employees of this department for their
continued fine service over the course of the year. Also of note is that Plumbing
Inspector Domingos Furtado retired in March and Brad Smith was appointed in his
place. We welcome Greg DiGiovanni as new assistant Plumbing Inspector.

Estimated Cost of Construction activity for the past decade in millions of dollars
 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
 43.4 33.3 38.1 25.1 46.2 40.0 40.4 50.5                            33.2 41.4




                                          117
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Respectfully submitted;
Robert S. Ives, Jr., Building Commissioner

Chris G. Butler, Local Inspector
Dan Williams, Local Inspector
Ronald J. Marks, Wire Inspector
Eric F. S. Chisholm, Assistant Wire Inspector
Brad Smith, Plumbing & Gas Inspector
Peter McCarriston, Assistant Plumbing & Gas Inspector
Greg DiGiovanni, Assistant Plumbing & Gas Inspector
Mary A. Allain, Special Clerk
Ellen Vaughn, Data Entry Clerk
Ed Medeiros, Public Buildings
Steve Ware, Public Buildings




                                       118
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                      CEMETERY DEPARTMENT

The Marblehead Cemetery Department respectfully submits our Annual Report for
the Calendar year ending December 31, 2014.

The Board of Commissioners has three members who are elected to three-year,
staggered terms. The Commission sets policy, establishes regulations and oversees
the cemetery budget. We welcomed Mr. William James as a new Board member
this year. We extend our appreciation to former board member Ms. Rose McCarthy
for her years of service.

The Cemetery Department is administered by a Superintendent appointed by the
Commissioners, who has jurisdiction over all Town Cemeteries.

The Cemetery Department is responsible for the complete maintenance of
Waterside Cemetery, as well as, Harbor View Cemetery. Years ago, the Cemetery
Department downsized from ten full time employees to the current four and
eighteen seasonal employees to only three. At that time the Recreation and Parks
Department took over the upkeep of Old Burial Hill, Harris Street, Hooper Tomb
and Green Street Cemeteries.

For the fiscal year 2014 the sum of $306,070.00 was expended on salaries and
wages. The sum of $20,702.15 was spent on maintenance expenses. The sum of
$25,000.00 from the Perpetual Care Fund was deposited into the General Fund to
help defray the cost of these expenditures

The Cemetery Department turned over to the Town Treasurer for the General Fund
the sum of $86,268.00 which was received from charges and fees during the fiscal
year 2014. The sum of $10,975.00 was received from the sale of lots and the sum
of $12,925.00 was received from bequests to the Perpetual Care Fund. The sum of
$40.00 was received from bequests to the Eternal Flame Fund.

There were six Gravestone Rubbing Permits issued this year. These permits cost
$10.00 and are used only at the Old Burial Hill. In an effort to preserve the old
memorials in our historic cemeteries, we have been forced to no longer allow grave
rubbing.

The total income receipts for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2014 was $110,228.00.




                                       119
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


This Department routinely surveys other Commonwealth Communities and Private
Cemeteries as to the fees that are charged and then makes adjustments to our fees
accordingly.

The total number of interments for the Calendar year was 107 of which 61 were
cremations.

Our main focus is on developing new areas for grave space. We are concentrating
on the area off of Locust Avenue East which abuts Liberty Lane. The property line
has been surveyed and marked.

The second half of the area next to the side gate that was developed and opened for
sale in 1994 has now been completely sold. Two areas were developed in 1970 and
1993 and held for emergency. These areas were opened for sale in 2005 when the
need became apparent. We have been forced to restrict lot purchases to emergency
only. We have put a hold on all pre-need purchases.

The Old Burial Hill Committee has reported that Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the Old
Burial Hill Restoration Project is complete. Fund raising is in the beginning stages
for Phase 3, which will include repair and construction of walkways, stairs and
railings at Old Burial Hill.

The Committee received a donation of $50,000.00 toward Phase 2 of the Project
and suggested a bench be placed in the Gazebo in the benefactor’s name. The
Committee will accept one more donation in the amount of $50,000.00 and as with
the first donation a bench will be placed in the gazebo.

In October of last year, we discovered that the water main coming in from
Waterside Road needed to be replaced. Town Meeting approved our request for
$23,000.00 to repair the main. These funds were appropriated from our Sale of Lots
Fund, which is standard practice for this Departments expenses outside of our
regular budget.

In order to relieve stress on the main and keep water service to the office building
on, unfortunately required keeping the front irrigation turned off for the season. This
irrigation system of dated galvanized pipe is finally failing as well. It is our hope to
replace the entire system with new economical pipe in the near future. We hope a
temporary fix will have part if not all of the front system somewhat operational by
summer.




                                         120
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Thank you to Amy McHugh and the assistance of the Water Department who
worked with Gallo Construction to replace the main coming in from Waterside
Road. The Highway Department finished off the project by paving the site. We
know it was an inconvenience for lot owners to get water from the office building
stanchions or any of the rear stanchions all season. We appreciate the patience and
understanding of all the lot owners who work so hard keeping their flowers looking
beautiful.

As the water was shut off, the hourglass pool would have taken days to fill by
garden hose running from the office building to the pool. We were fortunate to
have the assistance of the Fire Department who had it filled in less than an hour.
We are grateful to Chief Gilliland for always offering assistance.

Our appreciation once again to the Highway Department. As always, the sander
was in Waterside during the winter months in preparation for burial services. The
Highway crew was also here weeks ahead in the Spring helping our small
Department get Waterside Cemetery ready for the Memorial Day services. We
thank Dave Donahue for the assistance of his crew who were instrumental in
making sure the Cemetery looked its best for the Holiday. We wish Dave Donahue
well in his retirement and look forward to working with Art Graves.

We also extend our gratitude to the Light and Tree Departments for working
together to take down several huge trees that came down in one of our many storms
last year. This would have been a costly endeavor should we have had to hire out as
we had originally thought. Thank you to Doug Gordon and Bill Snow for your
crews and equipment.

During the year 2014, we saw the retirement of long time Town employees Robert
Delisle and Frank James. This Department consists of Margo Sullivan (office
clerk), Brian Ware (heavy equipment operator), Christopher Phillips (promoted to
mechanic/foreman) and welcomed Stephen Risoldi and Mike Attridge (laborers).

Our Cemetery Board of Commissioners:
Richard F. Coletti, chairman
David M. Cashman, clerk
William H. James, commissioner

Respectfully submitted
For the commission
Catherine M. Kobialka, Superintendent




                                        121
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                   CONSERVATION COMMISSION

This report is for Calendar Year 2014. The purpose of the Marblehead Conservation
Commission is to implement the safeguards specified in the state Wetlands
Protection Act, the state Stormwater Management Policy and the Marblehead
Wetlands Protection Bylaw in order to help preserve and protect the wetlands and
water resources in our Town. The Conservation Commission also maintains and
protects the conservation lands held in trust for all residents of our Town.
Marblehead and Salem have the highest density of population, with corresponding
pressures on our open space and water resources. The quality of life in Marblehead
and its attractiveness is in part dependent on these resources and we urge all
Marblehead residents to join in our efforts to preserve and protect them.

The Commission held regular meetings and public hearings throughout the year
2014. We continued to assist residents in their construction projects while guiding
them in their endeavors to protect the wetland resources potentially affected by their
construction.

A major ongoing effort of the Commission is the management and mitigation of
pollution caused by storm water runoff. This polluting runoff comes from streets,
parking lots, driveways and lawns. The commission continues its effort to mitigate
and educate the general public and the town on the effects that pollutants including
lawn chemicals, oil and coolant leaks, animal waste, and other substances disposed
of in the catch basins have on the environment.

In 2014 the Town contracted with the Conway School of Landscape Design to
provide a comprehensive analysis and develop design alternatives for the Lead
Mills Property. The Lead Mills is a 4.5 acre parcel of land, acquired in 2012 as
open space. The property is different than other conservation lands in that it is
owned by two communities, has easements and a number of restrictions. The study
was a way to get the stakeholders and residents of both municipalities together to
determine and document the issues and determine how to proceed with any
improvements and maintenance. The process included public meetings to get input
from the public and stakeholders. The result was a report that includes a site
analysis, with legal and regulatory restrictions, information on slopes, drainage, and
existing vegetation. It explored landscape design alternatives to support a range of
potential passive recreation activities. It identified areas of invasive species and
provides management recommendations. It also provided recommended placement
for interpretive signs, vegetation, fence alternatives and other site features. The




                                        122
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Commission thanks the Conway School, the Marblehead Conservancy and the
residents who participated throughout the process.

Again this year, we wish to express our gratitude to the Marblehead Conservancy
for its continuing efforts to restore walking paths in our conservation lands and for
its ongoing program to remove invasive plant species, which are strangling native
vegetation in the conservation lands. The ongoing efforts of the Conservancy to
preserve and protect these very valuable resources are crucial to the health of these
areas.

Please visit us on the Town website, www.marblehead.org, to find information on
our meeting schedules, help with filing permit applications and accessing the
minutes of our meetings.

Respectfully submitted,
Marblehead Conservation Commission

Brian LeClair, Chairman
Frederick Sullivan, Member
Ken Fisher, Member
David VanHoven, Member
David Depew, Member




                                        123
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                          COUNCIL ON AGING

The Council on Aging respectfully submits its annual report for the year ending
December 31, 2014.

Under the direction of former Director Teri McDonough, a grant to purchase a new
bus for the Transportation Program was awarded. The new bus will arrive in early
2015.

The Marblehead Female Humane Society has provided a yearly commitment to
fund a Monday driver position so that the COA has two drivers and buses on routes
five days each week.

The Friends of the COA provided a two-way radio system for the transportation
vans, on-going support for various classes, and an upgrade in MySeniorCenter
computer software.

A Volunteer Coordinator position was funded for 18 hours per week, giving the
COA a person to direct the Volunteer Program that encompasses about 120
volunteers in different positions. The Volunteer Coordinator also oversees the Tax
Work Off program.

The Council on Aging continues to provide programs and services designed to keep
elders independent, remain healthy and stay connected with the community.
Services include:

Health/Wellness Screenings and Services: Health Screenings and weekly wellness
clinics by the Public Health Nurse and the VNA continue to have good turnouts. A
flu clinic was held in October by the Board of Health that provided flu vaccine to
247 individuals age 18 and up.
Transportation: Over 10,000 rides were provided to approximately 250 senior
citizens for medical appointments, physical therapy, the senior center, grocery
shopping, volunteer positions and on errands. Another 305 rides were provided to
individuals under the age of 60 and disabled. A total of 19,808 miles were driven.
Nutrition: 16,705 home delivered meals were provided to 127 homebound
individuals and 3356 meals were served to 230 seniors at the center. Nutritional
facts for home delivered meals are now available on the menu. The COA also
invited a Nutritionist from North Shore Elder Services (NSES) to provide three
information sessions. Homebound individuals once again enjoyed the annual




                                      124
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


“Lazy, Hazy Days of Summer” event by North Shore Elder Services (NSES) which
included ice cream sundaes delivered by volunteers from the Rotary Club of
Marblehead Harbor. The Gerry VFA generously provided a delicious lunch at our
Annual Picnic. The Masons did another wonderful job by treating over 100 seniors
to a free Thanksgiving feast. A continued partnership with the Marblehead Food
Co-Op netted an abundance of surplus fresh fruit and vegetables.
Fitness/Exercise: Our programs include health and wellness activities such as
Physical Therapy, Weight Training, Osteo Prevention, Parkinson Fitness and
Zumba. Balance screenings through North Shore Physical Therapy offered. A
Balance Class was added. Yoga increased to 4 days a week.
Education:       Presentations included an AARP driving course, SCAM,
IPAD/IPHONE instruction, Long Term Care Insurance, Landlord/Tenant
agreements by the Attorney General’s office, Preventing Financial Exploitation by
the National Grand Bank and Power of Attorney and Health Care Proxy planning by
Attorney Andrew Christensen.
Recreation and Arts/Crafts Activities: Seniors enjoyed sessions of Bridge, Mah
Jongg, cribbage, bingo, oil painting, golf, bocce, rug hooking, scrabble, drawing,
knitting, quilting, crafts, line dance, country line dance, tap dance, watercolor
painting, and origami boxes. Bocce went competitive during 2014, with matches
against other local COAs. Pickleball began in partnership with Park & Recreation
and continues to grow in numbers. Our Thursday Quilting class has outgrown its
arts & crafts room.
Travel Opportunities: Eight COA day and overnight trips included Concerts,
Foliage tours, Isles of Shoals, Lake Winnipesaukee, San Antonio, Texas and Twin
Rivers.
Social Events: Social events included the annual picnic at the Gerry VFA, bi-
annual Veterans Breakfast held in May & November to celebrate and thank our
Veterans, monthly special luncheons with entertainment, as well as monthly visits
from the Traveling Chef. The Men’s Group hosted former Town Administrator
Jeff Chelgren to discuss the State of the Town, Interim Athletic Director Alex
Kulevich highlighted Marblehead High School sports programs and an Analysis of
the 2014 Election Results was provided by Michael Goldman and Virginia
Buckingham.
Safety: The Car Fit program sponsored by TRIAD was held at the Fire Station.
This program evaluates seniors’ car safety and supports efforts to inform seniors
about identity theft and scams. TRIAD also sponsored an Emergency Preparedness
Program moderated by John Russell of the Essex County Sherriff’s Dept. Those
who attended the program received Grab and Go backpacks fully stocked,
generously donated by the MA Office of Disability. TRIAD meetings are held
monthly at the COA.




                                      125
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Health Insurance Counseling: SHINE (Serving the Health Insurance Needs of
Elders) counselors held appointments three days each week during the Medicare
Open Enrollment sign up period from mid-October through December. Peter
Bowen, Paul Nash and Andy Stone continue to assist senior citizens with questions
and concerns about their health insurance and prescription coverage.
Property Tax Work Off Program: For 2014, there were 23 seniors who
volunteered their services to the town in exchange for up to $750 credit on their real
estate tax bills. This program is now administered by the Volunteer Coordinator.
Outreach: The Outreach Coordinator continued to help expand the social service
component of the COA this year. Collaborative efforts with other town departments
including Police, Fire, Board of Health, Veteran’s Agent and Board of Selectmen, in
addition to the Marblehead Counseling Center and local physicians’ practices, have
resulted in an increase in client referrals. Membership in North Shore REACT
(Regional Elder Assistance Coordinating Team), SEN-NET (Senior Network),
convening our monthly MarbleheadREACT (first responders, Board of Health and
North Shore Elder Services Protective Services) and local Providers’ group have led
to over 4,000 seniors being served.
Over 300 senior adults were contacted and introduced to COA activities and
services for the first time. 739 individuals received case management and advocacy
services. At least 20 were helped with their fuel assistance applications to North
Shore Community Action Programs. Close to 2,000 seniors were served more than
once during this fiscal year. The Caregiver Café, a monthly support group for
caregivers of family and friends experiencing health challenges continued to meet
during this second year, averaging 6 participants a month. The Outreach
Coordinator mentored a Marblehead High senior student last spring for her senior
project and advised another Marblehead High senior student with “The Big Sweep”
leaf-raking program, clearing 17 houses with 21 volunteers.
43 Farmer’s Market Coupons from the US Department of Agriculture were allotted
to Marblehead this season. For the second year, seniors were treated to fresh
produce from the Farmer’s Market Co-op with the help of volunteers. Working with
Rotary Elderact members and the Marblehead Fire Department, the Outreach
Coordinator helped facilitate the installation of lock boxes for isolated, infirmed,
and disabled seniors who otherwise might not be able to exit their residences in an
emergency. The Outreach Coordinator participated in thanking our Veterans at a
breakfast prepared by the local Masonic Lodge, and the quarterly Men’s Group
Luncheons. She videotaped information segments on winter safety that were aired
on MHTV, provided information for the Marblehead Reporter on mental health
issues among seniors, met with the North Shore Physicians Group Integrated Care
Management team, and participated in North Shore Elder Services Financial
Services Advisory Committee.




                                        126
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Volunteer Opportunities: A Volunteer Coordinator was hired in September 2014
to coordinate over 120 volunteers that assist in a variety of roles such as: board
members, lunch servers, snow shovelers, activity leaders, and instructors. This
position also manages the Property Tax Workoff Program.
Intergenerational Events: Annual programs, such as Senior Help Day was a big
success with volunteers participating from St. Andrew’s and St. Michael’s
Churches. This program assists seniors with small chores. In November, “The Big
Sweep” provided leaf raking for seniors and the Veteran’s Middle School students
Snow Shoveling project assisted more than fifty seniors. Ice melt was also donated
by the Marblehead Harbor Rotary club and delivered.

Thank you to our volunteers who continue to keep the COA going strong – we truly
couldn’t do it without you!

The Town of Marblehead appropriated $251,049 for FY15 for the COA. In
addition, the COA was awarded a Title IIIC federal grant of $23,135 for its nutrition
programs and a Title IIIB federal grant of $5,907 for its outreach program by North
Shore Elder Services for the period of 10/1/2014 – 9/30/2015. The Marblehead
COA was awarded a state Formula Grant for FY15 in the amount of $39,360.

The generosity of the Marblehead Female Humane Society – the Friends of the
COA, and the Masons continue to make it possible to meet the essential needs of
elders in our community. We are also grateful to those who have remembered the
COA through individual contributions.

After Teri McDonough’s departure in early October, the Selectmen appointed Pam
Foye as Interim Director. Lisa J. Hooper was appointed at the December 10 th
Selectmen’s meeting with a start date in early January 2015. Before her
appointment, Lisa was a COA Board member for four years.

The staff of the Council on Aging is to be commended for their commitment to
serving the senior residents of Marblehead:

         Former Director:                     Teri McDonough
         Interim Director:                    Pam Foye
         Activities Coordinator               Janice Salisbury Beal
         Senior Day Center Coordinator        Jan DePaolo
         Outreach Coordinator                 Marla Meyer
         Site Manager                         Maxine Stromberg
         Van Chauffeurs                       Bob Gotschall, Bob Hinch,




                                        127
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                                         Patricia Mederios
        MOW Drivers:                     Pam Campbell, Lisa Mayer, Virginia
                                         Power, Jeanne Ventura
        Clerk                            Jo-an Fratini
        Maintenance                      John Belanger
        Volunteer Coordinator            Patti Williams

Respectfully submitted,

Dana Denault, Chairperson       Freda McGuire, Vice Chairperson
Rosaleen Doherty, Secretary     Catherine Brown
Rev. Clyde Elledge              Maureen Horan           Peggy Munro




                                   128
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

The following is a report of the Department of Public Works for the year ending,
December 31, 2014.

ROADS AND SIDEWALKS:

Under the Chapter 90 Program, for which the Town of Marblehead receives 100%
reimbursement, the following streets were resurfaced during the year:

Girdler Road, Haley Road, Hawthorne Road, Lorraine Terrace, Rockaway Avenue,
Seaview Avenue, Jersey Street (in part), and Tower Way.

Handicap ramps were also installed at Haley & Village St., Hawthorne Rd. and
Village St., Jersey St. @ West Shore Drive, Jersey @ Shepard Street and Seaview
Avenue at Atlantic Avenue.

All work on streets and sidewalks in Town, such as repairing trenches and patching
potholes, etc., street sweeping, removal of Christmas trees, and roadside farming
were included in the regular Department of Public Works budget.

Due to the numerous storms which occurred this past year, the department removed
rocks and sand from the causeway several times. We also removed several feet of
sand from the public parking lot at Devereux Beach and re-graded it after severe
weather.

The Department of Public Works also cooperates with the Cemetery Department
cutting grass and helping them to get ready for Memorial Day.

Department employees also painted and repaired Town-owned fences at Lafayette
Street, Old Salem Road and Gallison Avenue due to wear and tear, and to Fort
Beach and Grace Oliver’s Beach due to storm damage.

It is with my utmost thanks and appreciation to all Town of Marblehead employees
and their Department heads for their assistance and dedication. This becomes
particularly evident during snowstorms when each and every department contributes
to clearing the town streets to ensure the safety of our citizens.




                                      129
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


I would like to thank Tim Cox, who left the Department in September and
transferred to the Water Department, for his service. We welcomed Reginald
Kernizan to the Department in the fall. I would like to thank all Department of
Public Works employees for their commitment to their department and their
continued hard work, and look forward to the opportunity to lead them in their
effort to continue to give the Town of Marblehead satisfaction in their employees.

Employee                                    Occupation
Arthur Graves                               Director of Public Works
Robert Titus                                Assistant Director
Susan Hogan                                 Senior Clerk
Robert Nauss                                Mechanic
Will Beringer                               Mechanic
William Montgomery                          Mechanic
Joe Fagundes                                Working Forman
Robert Mace                                 Working Forman
Frank Monahan, Jr.                          Working Forman
Robert Pollard                              Heavy Equipment Operator
James DeCoste                               Heavy Equipment Operator
Dana Lemieux                                Heavy Equipment Operator
Eric Fader                                  Heavy Equipment Operator
Reginald Kernizan                           Heavy Equipment Operator



Respectfully submitted,

Arthur Graves
Director of Public Works




                                      130
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                      ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT

During 2014, the Engineering Department provided engineering and survey related
services to several town boards, commissions and departments. Street line research and
determinations were provided as requested and plans were prepared. Working closely
with the Assessor’s office, the Engineering Department provides assistance in keeping
property ownership records up to date.

Throughout 2014, the Engineering Department provided administrative, clerical, record
keeping and budgetary support to the Conservation Commission, Planning Board, Zoning
Board of Appeals and Old & Historic Districts Commission. Maps are prepared from the
Town’s GIS for projects submitted to these Boards to identify the abutters and any other
parties necessary to receive notice of public hearings. Legal advertisements were
prepared and submitted to local newspapers for projects requiring a public hearing.
Numerous plans and documents were reviewed throughout the year for projects
submitted to these Boards and the Commissions. Site inspections were routinely done to
verify compliance with permits issued and to address any violations noted or reported to
the department.

The department continues a long tradition of storing and providing copies of historic
survey and engineering field notes, records and plans from the Map Room at the Mary
Alley Building. These historically important records and plans are routinely needed by
engineers, land surveyors, and attorneys in the course of their work. Throughout the year,
department personnel answer hundreds of inquiries from residents and assist them with
research, and provide copies from town files. The department also handled hundreds of
inquiries regarding 2014 changes to the FEMA Flood Maps.

The department continues to update detailed electronic indices of all projects filed with
the Conservation Commission, Old & Historic Districts Commission, Zoning Board of
Appeals, and Planning Board. Numerous plans, deeds and other documents have been
scanned from our files and/or downloaded from the Registry of Deeds for electronic
storage and retrieval.

Engineering Department personnel:
        William C. Lanphear, Engineering and Conservation Administrator
        Colleen M. King, Special Clerk

Respectfully submitted,
William C. Lanphear, PLS




                                          131
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                          FINANCIAL SERVICES

The Financial Services Department is responsible for the Town’s financial
functions, including accounting, payroll, revenue collection, budgeting, capital
financing and retirement management. The Financial Services Department is
overseen by the Town's Finance Director. The Finance Director also serves as the
Town Accountant and is responsible for the management of Information
Technology for the Town. The Finance Director also serves as an ex officio
member of the Town’s Retirement Board and the Town’s Compensation
Committee.

Within Financial Services, the Accounting office is responsible for the audit and
approval of all Town expenditures and preparation of various accounting and
financial reports required by the State’s Department of Revenue. The Revenue
office is responsible for distribution of payroll and vendor checks and collection of
taxes and fees owed to the Town. Both the Treasurer and the Collector functions
are performed by this office. The Payroll Office performs all payroll functions and
administers various employee fringe benefits, including health insurance, dental
insurance, flexible spending plans, 457 deferred compensation plans, and life
insurance. The Payroll Office also manages Unemployment and Workers
Compensation benefits.

The department publishes a separate Comprehensive Annual Financial Report
(CAFR) for the Town on a fiscal year basis (July 1 to June 30) each year. A Copy
of the latest CAFR is available on the town’s website or by contacting the Finance
Director’s Office.

Among the more important accomplishments of the Financial Services department
during 2014 were:

        Received for the tenth consecutive year the Certificate of Achievement for
         Excellence in Financial Reporting from the Government Finance Officers
         Association.    This award is only given to government units whose
         comprehensive annual financial reports (CAFRs) achieve the highest
         standards in government accounting and financial reporting. Marblehead
         was one of only 26 Massachusetts communities to receive this award.

        Completed the annual open enrollment process in April and May for
         employee and retiree health insurance. The Town began purchasing health




                                        132
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


        insurance plans through the State’s Group Insurance Commission (GIC) in
        July 2012.

       Conducted an open enrollment for optional dental insurance program for
        employees and retirees. Under this program employees and retirees pay
        100% of the premiums for this insurance through a payroll deduction. The
        open enrollment process was conducted in May for this option.

       Managed the Town’s Official Website (www.marblehead.org ). This work
        includes managing the content of the website to ensure completeness and
        accuracy, implementation of new website features, and assisting other
        town departments with their website content.

       Managed the on-line payment option available for taxpayers to use in the
        payment of their Real Estate and Personal Property taxes, Motor Vehicle
        and Boat Excise taxes as well as Water and Sewer bills.

       Completed a capital financing on behalf of the Town involving the
        issuance of both long-term bonds and short-term notes to finance various
        capital projects undertaken by the Town. In the context of this financing
        the Town’s AAA bond rating was affirmed by the independent rating
        agency Standard & Poor’s (S&P) for the sixth straight year. Marblehead is
        one of only 22 Massachusetts communities to receive S&P’s highest
        municipal rating.

       Continued the process of submitting to the Massachusetts School Building
        Authority for the reimbursement owed in connection with eligible Glover
        School Building project expenditures.

       Submitted all required Department of Revenue reports on schedule.



Financial Services Department Staff

John J. McGinn            Finance Director/Town Accountant
Robert Ross               Assistant Director – Accounting
Patricia Kelly Murray     Treasurer/Tax Collector
Dianne Rodgers            Payroll Administrator
Connie Ross               Assistant Revenue Officer




                                      133
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Linda Gifford          Accounting & Website Assistant
Dmitriy Vaydman        Accounting Assistant
Matthew Barrett        Retirement Administrator
Deb Christensen        Administrative Clerk – Payroll Office
Michael Milczarek      Senior Clerk – Revenue Office




                                   134
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                            FIRE DEPARTMENT


To the Honorable Board of Selectman and Citizens of Marblehead, on behalf of the
men and women of the Marblehead Fire Department, it is with great pride that I
submit my 2014 Annual Report. Many of the accomplishments highlighted in this
report are the direct result of the commitment to excellence by department
members, 911 Dispatchers, and Fire Alarm personnel.

Mission:
First and foremost, the members of the Marblehead Fire Department take pride in
the fact that our skills, training, and professionalism are serving and protecting the
Town of Marblehead. Our mission is public safety and customer service.

This community puts its trust in us as emergency first responders, and expects that
when we answer a “911” call we are prepared, professional and able to perform as a
team in order to prevent harm, preserve life, and protect property. It is a tribute to
everyone in the Department that day-in and day-out, we meet that challenge and that
we do so under conditions that can be difficult and dangerous. I commend the men
and women of the Marblehead Fire Department who remain dedicated to providing
quality and innovative fire, rescue, and emergency medical services to our
community.

Fire Rescue & Emergency Response:
The call volume for emergency services in 2014 was down slightly from the
previous year. The fire department responded to 2,503 calls for services. This
number represents a decrease of 19 responses compared to last year’s call volume.
The majority of our emergency responses are for rescue and medical emergencies.

The department currently has 40 EMT-Basics and 1 EMT-Paramedic. Our two
primary engines are certified as Class 5 Non-Transporting Basic Life Support
Ambulances. Members maintain their skills through regularly scheduled training
conducted by the Department’s Training Officer in conjunction with Atlantic
Ambulance Company. All of our apparatus and staff vehicles are equipped with
state-of-the-art cardiac defibrillators as well.

In the past year, there has been a tremendous spike in opiate overdoses in
Massachusetts and across the country. The Marblehead Fire Department joined
many other departments in taking a proactive approach by participating in a state
pilot program that allows emergency responders to administer by nasal spray, a drug




                                        135
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


referred to as Narcan. Narcan helps reverse the effects of an opioid overdose. In the
short time that we have had Narcan, many lives have been saved.

In 2014 we responded to 1,184 calls for medical assistance. Emergency medical
service continues to be a major component of the services the Marblehead Fire
Department provides to our citizens. Our Firefighter EMT’s strive to provide the
citizens with excellent emergency medical care and customer service; this is
exemplified by the countless hours of emergency medical training that all members
participate in on a daily basis and the quality of service provided by fire department
personnel.

PERSONNEL:
The following personnel changes were made in 2014. Aaron Handy resigned from
the department on September 25, 2014; to pursue other career opportunities. I
would like to recognize Aaron for his 3 years of service to the town. Timothy
Cronin was appointed as Permanent Full-Time Firefighter on April 4, 2014 and
Joshua Norman was appointed as Permanent Full-Time Firefighter on September
24, 2014.

It is with the deepest sorrow and regret that we note the passing of retired
Firefighter Walter F. Conrad, Sr. Walter was appointed to the department on April
4, 1956, he retired on May 30, 1987. Walter passed away on April 20, 2014. We are
extremely grateful for Walter’s many years of service to the Department and the
Town of Marblehead, and he will be truly missed by all.

I would like to extend my sincere thanks to my Administrative Assistant, Mary
Levine, for her commitment and hard work throughout the year. I would also like to
acknowledge the Department’s Chaplin, The Rev. Dr. Dennis B. Calhoun who is
always there to lend spiritual as well as moral support to the Department and
Community anytime of the day or night.

A special thanks to the Town’s Wire/Fire Alarm Inspectors, Ron Marks and Eric
Chisholm. They do an incredible job maintaining the Town’s aging fire alarm
system. I would also like to express my appreciation to both Ron and Eric for taking
time out of their busy daily schedules to assist the Fire Department with the many
other projects that we have done over the past year, and could not have
accomplished without them.




                                        136
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Grants:
In 2014, the Marblehead Fire Department applied for the annual Assistance to
Firefighting Grants program, in an effort to replace our aging self-contained
breathing apparatus. Even though we score very high in the needs assessment, we
were not successful in securing the grant. We have already started the process for
next year, and we are optimistic that we will be successful in 2015.

We also applied for the Emergency Management Performance Grant (EMPG), and
we were successful in securing $8,435.00. These funds will be used to purchase
notebook computers and software which will greatly assist us in recording
important safety and hazard information while conducting our annual in-service
inspections of businesses.

In addition to the EMPG grant, we filed an application for the MIIA Loss Control
grant. Our grant application outlined the need for the Installation of an Opticom
System at School and Pleasant Street. The Opticom infrared preemption system is
an emergency vehicle preemption transmitter, which is mounted on emergency
vehicles. It communicates securely with the intersection traffic controller to gain a
temporary right of way. The Opticom system gives us the ability to manage
intersection traffic flow in a more efficient, reliable, and safe manner. The grant
was approved and the town will receive $5,000.00 to help pay for the new system.

The Student Awareness of Fire Safety (SAFE) grant was also awarded to the
Marblehead Fire Department in the amount of $4,000.00 during fiscal year 2014. I
would like to thank Brendan Sheehan, the department’s (S.A.F.E.) Coordinator, and
his staff for their steadfast commitment to educating the Town’s youth and making
them more aware of the dangers of fire.

Apparatus & Equipment:
I will be recommending to the citizens at the May 2016 Town Meeting, the
replacement of Engine Two. Engine Two is a 1998 Seagrave Pumper that responds
out of the Franklin Street Station. Engine Two will be 18 years old and well beyond
the age for a first line piece of apparatus.

On July 9, 2014, the fire department and the Harbormaster put into service the 25’
Defender boat. The new boat will give the fire department and the Harbormaster the
ability to fight fires and conduct rescues on the water 24 hours a day, seven days a
week, 365 days a year for the first time. The boat is also equipped with an infrared
camera, which has the ability to pick up heat being emitted by any source in the
water including humans. I would like to recognize and thank Firefighter Eric Ridge




                                        137
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


for writing and receiving a $56,000.00 grant that made it possible to outfit the boat
with new motors and rescue equipment.
Stations & Facilities:
At the May Town Meeting of 2014 funding was approved to replace several old
windows at Central Headquarters. This project was completed in December. The
exterior of Central Headquarters was also painted

Central Headquarters and Franklin Street are older buildings and require constant
maintenance. Department members have put forth a great effort to help to keep both
stations in good repair. This year, members painted the halls, bathroom, and
conference room at Central Headquarters. They also repaired the cellar door, and
assisted with the installation of a new hot water heater. These projects could not
have been possible without the hard work of all the department members.

Community Projects & Events:
We continue to benefit from the Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-Off Program
sponsored by the Council on Aging. This program has proven to be extremely
beneficial to the fire department. Joan Smith has volunteered her services to the fire
department for the past twelve years, and I would be remiss if I did not recognize
the great job she does. Joan is an incredible asset and we truly appreciate her
support and friendship.

The fire department remains an active participant in the TRIAD Committee. The
Marblehead TRIAD Committee has representatives from public safety
organizations, senior citizens and community groups. The TRIAD updates our
seniors about new laws, frauds, scams, emergency planning, elderly assistance
programs and any other needs that our senior population may have. The committee
continually works to provide our seniors with information and resources.

The fire department also assisted the Council on Aging with their second offering of
the Car Fit Program. Car Fit is a national educational program that offers older
adults the opportunity to check how well their personal vehicles "fit" them. Car Fit
was developed by the American Society on Aging (ASA) in concert with AARP,
AAA and the American Occupational Therapy Association. At this year’s Car Fit
event, a team of trained volunteers worked with each participant to ensure they "fit"
their vehicle properly for maximum comfort and safety. This program was well
attended and I applaud the COA for providing these valuable programs.

I want to express my continued gratitude to the Marblehead Scouts, Troop 11 and
79 for volunteering to assist the fire department for the sixth straight year with the




                                        138
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


harbor illumination. The scouts do an excellent job monitoring the flares to prevent
citizens from getting too close to the open flame, as well as preventing the
possibility of grass and brush fires. I value and appreciate our partnership and look
forward to working with the scouts on future projects.

For the fifth straight year, the firefighters combined their fitness training with a
charitable event. They put together a team to participate in the Race Up Boston
Place Stair Climb Competition, to benefit the American Lung Association of
Massachusetts. The six member team climbed 41 floors in full turnout gear and air
tanks on their backs. Firefighter Lequin finished in 4 th place out of 339 firefighters
competing. The team finished in 9th place overall out of 42 teams competing. I
would like to recognize and commend these individuals for their efforts, as well as
the firefighter’s wives who participated in the climb. This year they raised
$2,065.00 for the American Lung Association

NAME              AGE      TIME                NAME             AGE            TIME
Tim Doane         49       21:19               Todd Burt        30              09:53
Jeff Martin       29       09:11               John Lequin      34              08:00
Greg Lydon        38       15:38               Joe Thibodeau    37              10:55

Firefighters from all across the country work very hard to help raise money in an
effort to find a cure for Muscular Dystrophy, and the men and woman of the
Marblehead Firefighters are no exception. Of the 300 fire departments in the
Commonwealth that participated in MDA fund raising, Marblehead topped them all
by raising $50,000.00. Some of the events sponsored by the Marblehead Firefighters
to meet the goal of $50,000.00 included the annual “Cooking For A Cure”
firefighter’s cook-off, softball games, and boot drives. I would like to extend my
congratulations on a job well done to all the men and woman of this department. I
would particularly like to recognize firefighters Tim Doane and Jeff Martin for the
time and commitment made to coordinate these events.

On April 17th, Joelle Lydon and the firefighter wives sponsored a very successful
Zumba event raising $4,086 for Boston Firefighters Michael Kennedy and Lt.
Edward Walsh who lost their lives in the line of duty.

The Marblehead Firefighters’ 2014 Annual Toy Drive was incredibly successful,
vastly exceeding the record number of toys donated last year. I want to commend
Firefighter Matthew Tina for taking the initiative of organizing this year’s annual
Toy Drive. I would also like to extend the gratitude of the department to the




                                         139
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


citizens of Marblehead, whose generous toy donations help make the holidays a
little happier for many children who otherwise would have gone without.

Conclusions:
As Fire Chief, I recognize that the greatest asset of this department is its forty full-
time and one part time employee. Time and time again personnel have
demonstrated to me that our fire department has the best Firefighters/EMTs on the
North Shore, and possibly, in all of Massachusetts. To each and every member, I
thank you for your continued professionalism and commitment to the people of our
community. I would also like to recognize the Civilian Dispatchers. They are a
group of dedicated and hardworking individuals, and are to be lauded for the great
job they do each and every day to help keep our community safe. In addition, I
want thank all of Marblehead’s citizens, officials, boards, committees, and other
town departments who have come to our assistance this past year. You may rest
assured that we will continue to provide the best in both emergency and non-
emergency services in the most efficient manner possible in the future.

Respectfully submitted,

Jason R. Gilliland
Chief of Department




                                         140
                                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Type of                Jan       Feb       Mar Apr       May Jun       Jul       Aug Sep       Oct Nov Dec        Total
Incident
Carbon Monoxide          14            7     10      1     6       2         5     4       7     4    6       3       69
Problems

Structure/                   0         3      3      3     1       8         2     6       0     0    0       3       29
Building Fires
Vehicle/ Boat Fires          0         0      0      0     0       0         0     0       0     0    0       0           0

Natural Gas Leaks            1         1      2      2     6       0         3     5       4     2    4       6       36
Response
Bomb Scare                   0         0      2      0     0       0         0     0       0     0    0       0           2
Mutual Aid                   1         1      3      3     3       3         2     2       1     2    1       0       22
Response
Electrical Problems          2         3      3      0     3       8         7     3       5    18    5       3       60

Alarm System             16            7      6      8     9     14      15       18   28       10   14      12      157
Malfunction
False Alarms             27        18        14   19      20     14      17       23   14       19   11      12      208
Lockouts/ Lock-ins       13        14        13      4    11     12      19       13       7    17    8      17      148

Outside Fires                0         0      2      1     0       2         0     0       1     0    0       0           6
Rescue/Medical          114        82        79   103 107        83      94 109        94 110        97     112     1184
Responses

Water/Ice Rescue             0         0      1      0     0       0         2     0       0     0    0       0           3

Motor Vehicle            12            5      9      5    10     13          8     9       5    14    4       6      100
Accidents
Severe Weather               1         1      2      1     0       2         1     0       2     3    0       3       16
Responses
Good Intent Call         12            6      7      8    14     11          8    15   18        9    6      14      128

Public Service Calls     17        13        21   14      13     19      31       12   15       20   20      17      212

Hazmat Response              0         0      0      1     1       0         0     0       0     1    0       1           4

Assist Police                1         1      3      4     2       4         1     0       4     3    2       1       26

Smoke Scare                  4         2      4      2     3       2         6     7       3     8    4       2       47

Other Hazardous              7         7      2      3     5       4         3     1       4     6    4       0       46
Conditions
                                                                                                          TOTAL     2503




                                                           141
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



APPARATUS
     Engine 1          2006 -- 1500 G.P.M. Pierce Pumper
      Engine 2         1998 -- 1500 G.P.M. Seagrave Pumper
      Ladder 1         2013 – 100 ft. Pierce Aerial Ladder-Quint
      Ladder 2         1997 -- 75 Ft. KME Aerial Ladder-Quint
      C1               2006 -- Ford Explorer (Chief's Vehicle)
      C2               2010-- Ford Escape (Fire Prevention)
      C3               2002 -- Ford F250 Pickup Truck
      Rescue Boat      2002 – 24 ft. Defender Boat

                FIRE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL CHANGES
                        RESIGNED
   Firefighter Aaron R. Handy                   09/25/2014
                       NEW HIRES
   Firefighter Timothy D. Cronin                04/20/2014
   Firefighter Joshua P. Norman                 09/28/2014

DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL

                                CHIEF
                           Jason R. Gilliland
                    FIRE PREVENTION CAPTAIN
                           Michael A. Porter
                               CAPTAINS
     Gregg M. McLaughlin            Daniel A. Rice
     Prov. Charles P.
     Scott R. Murray  Cerrutti      Elizabeth A. Wilson
                           LIEUTENANTS
     Charles P. Cerrutti         Adam J. Hatfield
     Thomas G. Rice              Joseph M. Thibodeau
                           FIREFIGHTERS
     Patrick B. Attridge          John Lequin, Jr.
     Ar




                                    142
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


       Mark P. Barcamonte             Matthew W. Lunt
       Ar
       Steven L. Bivens               Gregory T. Lydon
       Arthur H. Boardway             Jeffrey R. Martin
       Mark S. Borowski               Scott T. Martin
       Todd S. Burt                   Robert L. McKay
       Matthew G. Christensen         Joshua P. Norman
       Timothy D. Cronin              Matthew I. Patterson
       Rick R. DiGiammarino           Jacqueline S. Popeo
       Timothy J. Doane               Eric M. Ridge
       Grant W. Glavin                Matthew J. Serratore
       Jeffrey K. Greenberg           Brendan J. Sheehan
       Martin T. Hines                Charles W. Sprague
       James M. Horgan                Brent A. Tarasuik
       Douglas B. Knowles             Eric Z. Thibodeau
       Karl P. Lemieux .              Matthew J. Tina
    ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK              DEPARTMENT CHAPLAIN
       Mary E. Levine                 Reverend Dennis Calhoun



                             FIRE PREVENTION

     Most often fire is the result of unsafe practices…Practice fire safety!


The main objective of the Marblehead Fire Prevention Bureau is the protection of
life and property through the prevention of fire. This is accomplished by the
elimination of hazards through effective code enforcement and public education of
fire and life safety principles.

The Fire Prevention Officer works in conjunction with the Building Department to
ensure that new construction and any renovations of existing structures meet the
minimum fire safety requirements. They also perform annual inspections of every
establishment that holds a license to serve alcohol.

The Fire Prevention Officer also functions as the Public Information Officer whose
duties include the dissemination of information to the media and public. He




                                      143
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


provides information on emergency incidents, as well as providing interviews and
demonstrations on life safety issues. Weekly “run” reports are disseminated and
multiple safety interviews are organized with MHTV and other local media
throughout the year.

Company Inspections ~
This year the Fire Prevention Division worked closely with a local software
developer to transform our existing 4 page annual inspection checklist into an
interactive FileMaker database. We have secured grant money to purchase 6 tablets
that the new software will be installed on for use in the field when fire crews are
performing their annual inspections.

2014 also marks the end of our current fire code book: 527 CMR 1.00-50.00
As of January 1, 2015 it will be replaced with: NFPA 1, the Uniform Fire Code.
This edition works in unison with the current building code.

The importance of the annual inspections cannot be overstated! They accomplish
several objectives; the fire crews become familiar with the building layout and they
can help reduce the loss of life and property by identifying fire and life safety
violations.

Through our continued vigilance and your help we hope to make Marblehead a
                            fire safe community!

Fire Prevention Open House ~ The Fire Department participated in the National
Fire Prevention Month by hosting our annual open house on Saturday October 18,
2014

The theme for Fire Prevention Week this year was “Working smoke alarms save
lives”.

We put out a vast display of old and new smoke alarms to show examples of the old
and new technology. A presentation board was created explaining exactly how a
photoelectric smoke alarm works compared to the ionization technology. The
proper placement/location and type of detector needed was discussed at length. A
video loop was shown using the “Aquarium Test” method to show how much
longer it takes for an ionization alarm to respond compared to a photoelectric alarm.
We also acquired the Essex County Fire Chief/ Fire Prevention Association’s smoke
trailer once again. It is designed to mimic a two room apartment complete with a
kitchen. Multiple scenarios were presented to families in the first room then, after a




                                        144
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Fire Safety discussion they are brought through the smoke filled environment to
“test” their newfound knowledge. We discuss how to “stay low” under smoke filled
rooms when passing through, feel doors for heat before opening and many other fire
safety tips. We taught families how to escape using the E.D.I.T.H. (Exit Drills In
The Home) technique. They were then encouraged to practice them when they
returned home.

As usual our “Squirt House” was a huge hit with the children. They got to
experience some “hands on” firefighting with a real fire hose and the imitation
flames of our squirt house.

I would like to thank all of our Firefighters and the Marblehead Police Department
for providing valuable safety information to all the families that attended the open
house. I could not have done it without their assistance.

I would also like to thank Papa Gino’s for their continued support of our open
house. This was their 20th year of sponsoring Fire Departments throughout New
England with free pizza and fire safety handouts.

2014 Results by the numbers:

   1033 General inspections of property and buildings
   68 Complaints investigated and conditions corrected
   28 Inspection follow ups
   14     Blasting complaint
   76 Sets of plans reviewed
   372 Residential sale of property inspections
   82 Miscellaneous calls made by the Fire Prevention Officer, which included
    fire drills, development of fire and life safety plans, evacuation plans, lectures
    on fire safety, inspector meetings and hands on demonstrations.



    THE FOLLOWING PERMITS WERE ISSUED BY THIS BUREAU:

     Fire Alarm Boxes                                                 37
     Fire Reports                                                     18
     Fuel Permit                                                      03
     Oil Burner                                                       15




                                         145
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


     Tank Removal                                               99
     Tank Storage                                               18
     Blasting                                                   06
     L.P. Gas                                                   20
     Dumpster                                                   86
     Sprinkler                                                  14
     Welding and Cutting                                        10
     Flammable Storage                                          05
     Tent                                                       00
     Tank Truck Storage                                         05
     Demo                                                       08
     Smokeless Powder                                           00
     Black Powder                                               02
     Tar Kettle                                                 00
     SMOKE DETECTORS
     Residential Sale of Property                              371
     Residential New Construction                               12
     Residential Remodel                                        83
     Commercial New                                             01
     Commercial Remodel                                         14
     TOTAL PERMITS                                             827

The Fire Prevention Officer attends all Massachusetts Fire Prevention Association
and the Essex County Fire Chief’s Association - Fire Prevention Division meetings
to keep up to date with any new regulations or any changes to the present ones.

 Test Smoke Detectors regularly. Develop and practice a fire escape plan with
                                your family!

Respectfully submitted,


Captain Michael A. Porter
Fire Prevention Officer




                                      146
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                                     S.A.F.E.

The following is a report from the Marblehead Fire Department Student Awareness
Fire Education (S.A.F.E.) Program for the year 2014.

The program is made possible by a grant from the Office of Public Education. The
goal of this program is to conduct fire and life safety education programs within the
town of Marblehead using trained firefighters as educators.
For the past eighteen years we have conducted a comprehensive Fire and Life
Safety Program with students in the Marblehead Public School district. The
program covers subjects such as Stop, Drop and Roll!, Home Escape Plans, Get Out
and Stay Out and much more. It has been a continued success again this year.
Our goal with this program is to continue our commitment to make the Marblehead
Fire Department more than just a town department. We want to be a partner with
our community and we believe that beginning life safety education early in a
student’s career makes our community a safer place to live.
Fire Prevention Week is the second week in October and the Marblehead Fire
Department along with the SAFE Program had its annual Open House. This year,
the weather cooperated and over 300 visitors came by to meet our firefighters.
Thank you, Captain Wilson and all of Group 3, for their support and amazing
demonstrations. It was a great opportunity to show the citizens of Marblehead our
capabilities and the amazing tools we have. I would like to thank all of the
firefighters who helped set up and man all of the demonstrations.
I would like to thank the following educators who work so hard towards the
betterment of our program: Firefighter Greg Lydon, Firefighter John Lequin,
Firefighter Jeff Martin and to Captain Mike Porter for his continued support. A
very special thanks to the entire Marblehead Fire Department; without their support
many of our programs would not be possible.
Thank you to all of the children for being so wonderful and to the dedicated school
staff and teachers that work so closely with us and for allowing us into their
classrooms.
Respectfully Submitted,
Firefighter Brendan Sheehan
SAFE Coordinator




                                        147
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                               TRAINING REPORT

Members of the Marblehead Fire Department are continually training in order to
provide the best possible service to the community. Members, both on and off duty,
attend training throughout the year. Reinforcement of the basic techniques along
with learning new procedures to meet present-day challenges are the focus of the
training. Department members and outside training agencies are utilized to provide
instruction.

The on duty groups conduct daily training. Emergency medical services, search and
rescue, pumping, ladders, boat operations, vehicle extrication, hazardous materials,
ice rescue, and many other topics are conducted. The emphasis in all training
procedures is fire fighter safety.

In addition, the department requires all new members to attend the Massachusetts
Recruit Training Program. This is an intensive nine week program involving
classroom instruction, physical fitness training, firefighting skills training, and live
firefighting practice . All Fire Fighters graduate with NFPA certification of Fire
Fighter I/II. This year firefighter/EMTs Timothy Cronin and Brent Tarasuik
completed the Recruit Training Program.

Each year Marblehead Firefighters attend training conducted by outside agencies.
Many of the classes are several days long and require members to attend on and off
duty. Courses this past year included: Incident Safety Officer, Fire Officer I, Fire
Instructor I, Structural Firefighting Practices, and Operational Rapid Intervention
Team Leader to name a few.

To all of the members of the Marblehead Fire Department, thank you for your
support, dedication, and professionalism throughout the year.

Lt. Charles Cerrutti
Marblehead Fire Dept., Training Division

                         EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT


The Emergency Management Agency prepares for natural and man-made disasters.
The Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) serves as the local
branch of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). In March, 2003,
FEMA became part of the U.S. Dept. of Homeland Security.




                                         148
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



Marblehead Emergency Management provides emergency coordination of resources
of various town departments and other agencies during emergencies. The
department is the conduit for state assistance through the Massachusetts Emergency
Management Agency (MEMA). The planning effort for the town is guided by the
Comprehensive Emergency Management plan (CEM) which was developed in
conjunction with MEMA.

Marblehead continues to subscribe to Code Red Networks. Code Red is an
emergency notification telephone system that allows town officials to immediately
notify residences and business via telephone and email of emergency situations and
important community information. For further information, please visit
www.marblehead.org. To receive notifications, register by clicking on the Code
Red Logo.

Emergency preparedness is the first crucial step in facing an unexpected crisis.
Marblehead residents are encouraged to develop a home/family preparedness plan.
To learn more about planning, please visit the Federal Emergency website:
http//www.fema.gov/are-you- ready.

In closing, Marblehead Emergency Management would like to thank all department
heads, town employees, and residents who have provided service and support.

Respectfully,
Charles Cerrutti, Emergency Management Director




                                      149
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


           FORT SEWALL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE

The Fort Sewall Oversight Committee is a group appointed by the Board of
Selectmen and comprised of the following: Larry Sands – Glover’s Marblehead
Regiment, Chairman; Joyce Booth – Marblehead Historical Commission; Brenda
Arnold – Old Marblehead Improvement Association; OPEN – Recreation and Park
Department; Lloyd Caswell – Marblehead Disabilities Commission; TBD – Old
and Historic Districts Commission; TBD - Marblehead Museum and Historical
Society; Ed Lang – At Large Member; and Judy Anderson – At Large Member.
Rebecca Cutting, Town Planner and Tim Short, Recreation and Park Department
are both ex-officio members. The board meets monthly on the third Friday of each
month in the Selectmen’s Room at Abbot Hall at 9:30 am.

The Fort Sewall Committee continues to focus on improving Fort Sewall. Many
events were held at the Fort during the year including a commemoration of the 200 th
Anniversary of the U.S.S. Constitution’s initial visit in 1814; an annual clean-up
day co-sponsored by the Old Marblehead Improvement Association; Header’s in
History Day with the town’s 8th graders; the Champagne Reception fund raiser
sponsored by the Marblehead Festival of Arts; and the annual Fort Sewall
Encampment sponsored by Glover’s Marblehead Regiment.

In 2014 we moved forward on a list of priorities that focused on safety, preservation
and enhanced visitor experience. To achieve these priorities, Rebecca Cutting
obtained a $12,450 grant from Massachusetts Historical Commission Massachusetts
Priority Preservation Fund (MPPF) which was matched by the Coffin Fund. This
funding enabled the committee engage McGinley, Kalsow & Associates, Inc. to
complete a Conditions Assessment & Treatment Plan.                The plan makes
recommendations for remediation actions and improvements to the Fort in a phased
approach. Items to be addressed in Phase 1 include: new doors, door frames, door
gratings, window grates, an accessible walk to the redoubt, raise stone dust floor in
redoubt for H.P. (Handicapped Person) accessibility, replace Stair Railings,
Stabilize Slope Above Redoubt and Archeological Exploration and Documentation
as Required by Massachusetts Historical Commission.

Phase 2 enhancements include: Ground Penetrating Radar to Determine Original
Gun Positions, Archeological Exploration and Documentation as Required by
MHC, H.P. Access to Upper Walk, H.P. Access to Lower Walk, One Replica Gun
Position & Associated Earthworks with Gun and Carriage, Replicate Outline of
Other Gun Positions, and Low Barrier between walks and steep banks.




                                        150
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



Funding methods for these improvements are currently being evaluated. A
combination of grant requests, Coffin Fund, private donations and potentially a
debt-exclusion override are part of the funding options.

We are confident that these improvements will continue to preserve and enhance the
experience of all that visit this historic treasure. We encourage all Marblehead
residents and visitors to take a walk around historic Fort Sewall!


Respectfully submitted,

Larry Sands, Chairman




                                      151
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                        HARBORS AND WATERS

The Harbors and Waters Board is pleased to submit its annual report for the period
ending December 31, 2014.

The Stramski pier project awaits approval from the Army Corp. of Engineers.
Pending the completion of the South Essex Sewerage Districts Emergency
Marblehead Pipeline Replacement Project estimated to be completed before Labor
Day of 2015. Expectations are that the pier will be completed by spring of 2016. In
our engineers words “the Stramski Pier Project has now taken longer to complete
than the time it took to build the entire Panama Canal”

In July the donated Coast Guard Defender 25’safeboat was put into service as
“Marblehead Public Safety Boat One”. Both the Fire Department and the
Harbormaster Department train and operate this new asset to our town in an effort to
improve on public safety in our waters including winter months. The two
departments will continue to train and improve public safety on the water.

The visiting Yacht facility located at The Harbormasters Quarters at Tuckers Wharf
and the town’s transient moorings continue to be very active throughout the boating
season.

Main Harbor 2014
New permanent assignments                                                       33
Temporary assignments                                                           42
Approximate number of people on the waiting list for the main harbor         1,950
Waiting time                                                         18 – 21 years

West Shore 2014
Marblehead west shore new permanent assignments                               48
West shore temporary assignments                                              46
Approximate number of people on the waiting list for west shore              178
Waiting time                                                              2 years
In an effort to increase efficiency and show transparency the main harbor waiting
list is now posted on our website and updated every January. The updated Manual
for Marblehead Waters will be completed and on the website in 2015.

Under the Clean Vessels Act, the Marine Sanitation Pumpout Boat operated
between Memorial Day and Halloween primarily on Tuesdays and Fridays. The




                                       152
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


self-serve land based pumpout facility continues to grow in popularity with its 24/7
access weather permitting, until the first week of November.

The Harbormaster’s patrol staff responded to various calls and rendered such aid as,
towing disabled vessels, dewatering vessels, providing medical assistance,
conducting search and rescue operations, investigating fuel and oil spills and
removed hazards to navigation.

The Harbors and Waters Board extends its gratitude to The Board of Selectman, as
well as all Town departments and their employees that provide service and support
to the Harbormasters operations.


Respectfully submitted
F. Webb Russell III
Harbormaster Town of Marblehead

Harbors and Waters Board Members
Gary Gregory – Chairman        John Doub
Jay Michaud                    Kenneth Breen
Doug O’Leary

Alternate Members
Rick Williams                        T.Clark Smith
Rick Cuzner

Harbormaster Personnel
F. Webb Russell III                  Harbormaster
Craig Smith                          First Assistant Harbormaster
Daniel Roads                         Assistant Harbormaster
Theresa Colbert Tauro                Office Manager

Seasonal Assistants
Ray Gauthier     Jeff Flynn                   Ryan Hoey        John Vigneron
John Payne       Charles Cullinane            Allen Dennis

Senior Project Student: Max DelVento

To view the Manual for Marblehead Waters as well as other harbor related
information visit our web page at www.Marblehead.org/Harbors




                                        153
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


               MARBLEHEAD CULTURAL COUNCIL

FY 2014 began with $ 5,028.48 remaining in our account for past year
encumbrances. $ 4,250 was allocated to the Marblehead Cultural Council by the
state for FY 2014. The Marblehead Council awarded a portion of $ 4,038 to each of
9 grant applications as described below. 16 grant applications were received.
     1. Poetry Salon, created and presented by Professor Claire Keyes, received
          partial funding for her lively and engaging presentations held each month
          at Abbott Public Library. The poetry salon focuses on pairings of authors
          both modern and contemporary with emphasis on theme or style
          characteristics. Side by side comparison /discussion will allow participants
          to gain insight into the literary tradition.
     2. Book Design and Illustration workshop led by Yette Frenkel at Abbott
          Public Library is designed for participants- high school age and above-
          who would like to explore the process of creating a book layout from
          introduction to illustration based on a great work of literature.
     3. Marblehead Senior Center again hosted the Delvena Theatre Company and
          a live performance of ‘The Incredible Mae West’. The actress brings Mae
          to life with her unique style, singing and one-liners. Audience members
          learn about Mae’s personal life in this humorous and informative
          production.
     4. The Concert Singers, in their 34th year, perform 4 major concerts- 2 in
          Lynn and 2 in Swampscott. The singers include 60+ members, including
          many from Marblehead. The group sings a mixed repertoire of classical
          and pop music with professional direction and accompaniment. All
          residents of north shore communities have free access to all concerts.
     5. The award- winning New Repertory Theatre brought 2 adaptations of
          classic literature to Marblehead High School students. The tour brings
          classic texts from the page to the stage, providing students with an in-depth
          look at their current reading material. This year the tour provided
          adaptations of Shakespeare’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream or Charles
          Dickens’s, Great Expectations.
     6. Marblehead Housing Authority Music program for residents under the
          direction of Debby Larkin, was funded in part for 4 concerts held
          throughout the year at Farrell Court Community Room. Residents’




                                         154
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


         feedback is enthusiastically positive for programs provided. All senior
         citizens have access to all concerts.
    7.   Marblehead Arts Association was partially funded for its annual Education
         and Program series, including art history lectures, musical and dramatic
         performance, art demonstrations and cultural events. The programs present
         educational and cultural opportunities for both children and adults and
         provide awareness of the life and times of families who lived in the vibrant
         community building, the King Hooper Mansion, home of the Marblehead
         Arts Association.
    8.   Gothic Romance Tales by Candlelight, a theatrical storytelling presentation
         of three 19th century tales by Chopin, Bronte and Alcott presented by Rita
         Parisi at the Abbott Public Library on April 16, 2014 was fully funded.
         The program exposed people of all ages to the literary style most popular
         in the 18th and 19th century and relevance to their modern counterparts
         popular today.
    9.    Marblehead High School Theatre coordinated by Greg Dana hosted a
         regional Massachusetts High School preliminary Drama Festival at
         Marblehead High School. 8 Regional schools perform one-act plays.
         Students with interests in acting, directing and technical theater gain
         valuable performance and production experience. Additionally students
         are exposed to peers with similar interests from other towns. Students win
         awards for acting and technical excellence. Competing school productions
         vie for a spot at the MA State Drama Finals held in Boston in the spring.

Marblehead Council members this year include Joyce Mayer-Clark, Gloria
Coolidge, Nora Falk, Jonathan Green, Doug Hill, Howie Rosenkrantz, Ginny von
Rueden and Louise Weber.

Respectfully submitted,
Hazel Grenham, Chair
Marblehead Cultural Council




                                        155
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                     FAIR HOUSING COMMITTEE

The Marblehead Fair Housing Committee is presently an eleven member committee
appointed by the Board of the Selectmen.

The Town of Marblehead is a member of the HOME Consortium. The Home
Consortium is a group comprised of 30 communities throughout the North Shore,
Cape Ann, and Merrimack Valley Regions. The Consortium is the recipient of
approximately two million dollars annually from the Federal Home Investment
Partnerships (HOME) program. These funds are then allocated by formula to all 30
communities in the region to assist in the development of affordable housing. In FY
2014 the town received approximately $27,275.00 to assist the town in developing
affordable housing programs.

In 2014 the Town was able to assist two families with down payment assistance
through the HOME allocation. One of the primary, obstacles for a large percentage
of low and moderate income households is the down payment costs.

The mission of the Fair Housing Committee includes helping the public and town
officials to understand and support fair and affordable housing through education,
advocacy and awareness of opportunities; continually developing the committee's
expertise and acting as a resource to the public officials and the public at large; and
developing and implementing programs that expand, enhance or rehabilitate the fair
and affordable housing stock in Marblehead.

In 2014, Marblehead had 2,412 households that are considered low to moderate
Income households; this represents 11.84% of the town’s total population.

The committee bid farewell to long time member Paul Crosby who had been with
the FHC for over twenty years. Committee Member Chairwoman, Virginia Kenny,
has been unable to participate this year due to health issues. The committee hopes
for a full recovery and her ability to return to the committee.

The FHC welcomed two new members in 2014, Alex Finnegan and Ben Day.

Respectfully submitted, Jim Vipperman
        Ann Cohen                 Mimi Hollister-Gardner Janet Robinson
        Don Davies                Joan McIntyre           Charlene Tyler
        Virginia Healy-Kenney Kurt James, Planning Board




                                         156
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


           MARBLEHEAD HISTORICAL COMMISSION

We live in a unique and historic town – its places, structures, people and stories tell
the history of New England in a microcosm. Our mission is to identify, preserve
and protect Marblehead’s historical assets – its places, artifacts and stories, while
making these accessible to all. We want to educate the public about and publicize
Marblehead’s proud history. We also want to work with other organizations to help
achieve our mission. Finally, we fulfill our legally required obligations per Mass.
General Laws Chapter 40, Section 8d by working with the state Historical
Commission and State Archeologist.

The Commission has spaces in Abbot Hall to display and store historic artifacts,
maintain a Maritime Museum, a gift shop and office space for research and
cataloging items in the collection. The office, on the second floor of Abbot Hall, is
open from 9:00 – 12:00 am.

The gift shop is managed by Gail Gray and is staffed by volunteers. The Maritime
Museum is also staffed by volunteers during the season. The Gift Shop is open as
volunteers are available during the tourist season from late May through late
December. The Maritime Museum is open year round when Abbot Hall is open and
staffed by volunteer docents during the season.

In 2014 we accomplished the following:

1. The Commission welcomed newly appointed Commissioner Peter Stacey. Long
time Commissioner Nancy Graves retired from the Commission after 21 years of
service – she will be missed.
2. The Commission appointed two Associate Members: Gail Gray and Eleanor
Rhoades to one year terms.
3. The Commission restored the Abbot Hall weathervane using funds from a
Shattuck Fund grant. The weathervane was reinstalled as part of the Abbot Hall
Tower renovation project.
4. The Town received a gift of a painting of the USS Constitution’s battle with the
Guerriere from the Spiess family. The painting has been hung in the Abbot Hall
auditorium.
5. The Town received a gift of the steering wheel from the ferry boat Blonde,
donated by Giffy and Jim Full. The wheel has been hung in the Abbot Hall
auditorium to commemorate the years of ferry boat service in Marblehead Harbor.




                                         157
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


6. Cataloging work continued on newly received gifts, items from the Paul Lausier
Collection and assisting the Town Clerk by the cataloging of historic Town
documents in the Clerk’s possession. We also completed cataloging all of Abbot
Hall’s artwork and objects in the Sign Museum. The Commission also collected
important artifacts and objects from the Abbot Hall Tower renovation project to add
to our collection.
7. The Commission provided positions for seven Senior Tax Work-off program
participants in the Gift Shop, Maritime Museum and office.
8. The Commission completed a Community-wide Historic Preservation Survey
Master Plan. This plan defines an approximately 10 year phased and prioritized
approach to conducting historic inventories of all areas of the Town outside of the
already surveyed Downtown area.
9. The Commission submitted a pre-application to the Massachusetts Historical
Commission for a FY 2015 Survey and Planning Grant to conduct the first and
highest priority historical resource inventory outlined in the Survey Master Plan.
The Commission was subsequently selected to submit a final grant application
based upon the pre-application.
10. The Commission has initiated an application for designation of Marblehead as a
“Certified Local Government”. If successful, this will give Marblehead priority in
Massachusetts Historical Commission grant applications.
11. The Commission purchased and had installed radiator covers for Abbot Hall
auditorium to help protect paintings hanging above the radiators from excessive
heat. The covers were funded by a grant from the Shattuck Fund.
12. The Commission received a Shattuck Fund grant to replace a roof finial on
Abbot Hall which had blown off during a storm in 2012. The replacement finial was
installed in October.
13. The Commission received a Shattuck Fund grant to restore two valuable
maritime paintings hanging in Abbot Hall. Restoration work is underway and will
be completed in early 2015.
14. The Commission procured three cast aluminum markers for the National
Register Historic District. These will be installed on Washington, Pleasant and Elm
streets to acknowledge and mark the entrance to the National Register Historic
District.
15. The Commission assisted the Building Commissioner in improving lighting of
the Spirit of 76 and resolving issues with obsolete lighting equipment. Marblehead
resident Steven Rosen was instrumental in defining and installing the improved
lighting on a pro bono basis.
16. The Commission received a gift from the Ross and Rita Terrien estate of
$692,711 for the purpose of creating a repository for the Town of Marblehead
historical documents and records.




                                       158
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Our organization is composed entirely of volunteers: Wayne Butler, Chris Johnston,
Eleanor Rhoades, Peter Stacey, Pat Franklin, Gail Gray and the Gift Shop
volunteers.


Respectfully submitted,

Commissioners                                       Associate Commissioners
Joyce Booth                                         Gail Gray
Harry Christensen                                   Eleanor Rhoades
William E. Conly, Vice Chairman
Donald Gardner
Douglas O’Leary
Peter Stacey
Chris Johnston, Chairman




                                      159
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


              MARBLEHEAD HOUSING AUTHORITY

The Marblehead Housing Authority is pleased to submit our annual report for the
year ending December 31, 2014.

The Marblehead Housing Authority was established in 1948 to provide decent, safe,
and affordable housing opportunities in the town for those of low income, including
the elderly, families and those with disabilities.

For 65 years, the Authority has carried out this mission, and provided affordable
housing to some of the community’s most vulnerable seniors and families. This
year, we continued to house the homeless, victims of domestic violence, low
income families, the disabled, and the elderly living on fixed incomes.

In 2014, the MHA assisted 449 people living in our developments, managed 3
housing programs and maintained 307 units of housing located at eight locations
throughout town.

The developments are of various ages, sizes, and configurations, and are as follows:

                         1 bedroom      2 bedroom        3 bedroom          Total
Family Housing:
Barnard Hawkes Ct            N/A              12               10             22
Broughton Road               N/A              33               21             54
New Broughton Road           N/A               4                4              8
Elderly Housing
Powder House Court            38              N/A             N/A             38
Green Street Court            32              N/A             N/A             32
Farrell Court                 64              N/A             N/A             64
New Farrell Court             48              N/A             N/A             48
Roads School                  41              N/A             N/A             41
TOTAL                        223               49              35            307


The Marblehead Housing Authority is “a public body politic and corporate”
authorized by State Law and regulated by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Department of Housing and Community Development (DHCD).




                                        160
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


The Board of Commissioners consists of four members elected by the Town, and
one member appointed by the Governor. All members of the Board serve a 5 year
term.

The Board meets regularly on the third Tuesday of each month at the community
room at the Roads School, 26 Rowland Street, and conducts its Annual Meeting and
election of officers every June.

In May, Pamela Foye was re-elected to the Board for another 5 year term.

At the Annual Meeting held in June, Kurt James was elected Chairman, Pamela
Foye was elected Vice Chair, Robert Bryne was elected Treasurer; and Jean R.
Eldridge was elected Asst. Treasurer. The fifth member of the Board, serving her
first term, is Virginia Healy-Kenney.

The Board of Commissioners is responsible for establishing policy and approving
and monitoring the MHA’s annual budget. The MHA Board has established
policies and procedures in accordance with the regulations under which the
Authority operates, and monitors the operations of the Authority on a regular basis.

Initiatives fostered by the Commissioners:

The Board of Commissioners undertook several new initiatives in 2014, with the
concern and well-being of the residents in mind.

In January, 2014, the Commissioners approved a No Smoking Policy, which took
effect on December 31, 2014. During the year, the Authority held numerous
meetings with residents, designed to inform them about the policy, answer
questions, and provide support to those residents that may wish to stop smoking.

In early 2014, a meeting regarding the formation of a Tenant’s Association was
held with Mass Union of Public Housing Tenants and interested parties. At the
present time, the tenant association has still not formally formed. However, the
Board remains committed to supporting residents in forming a tenant association at
a later date.

A Resident Service Coordinator positon was added to the budget in 2014. This
position has been filled, and the Resident Service Coordinator is available eight
hours per week to assist residents in locating services and make referrals.




                                       161
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Administration:

The Board contracts with an Executive Director who is responsible for the day to
day management and operations of the agency and its personnel.

In 2014, the Executive Director was awarded a “Distinguished Service Award” by
Massachusetts NAHRO in recognition of her 25 years of service as a Public
Housing Executive Director.

Although the MHA is eligible for subsidy under its contributions contract with
DHCD, at the present time the overall income from rent is in excess of the
allowable expense level, therefore the Authority does not receive a subsidy.

The Marblehead Housing Authority receives no funding from the Town of
Marblehead.

Summary of Accomplishments:

In 2014, the Authority once again focused on its capital improvement program.

A roof replacement project was completed at Powder House Court. Built in 1959,
Powder House Court is the oldest elderly housing complex, with 8 buildings and 38
units. New roofs, with 50 year asphalt shingle, ice and water protection, and metal
drip edges, were installed on all eight buildings. New vinyl siding was also
installed on the gable end of each building. This project was funded through the
Department of Housing and Community Development in conjunction with the
MHA’s Capital Improvement Plan - a long-term comprehensive capital planning
system designed to address our most pressing capital needs. The total cost of this
project was $230,924.00. The Authority also received an energy grant in the
amount of $46,000.00 to install insulation in each attic.

The Authority received a Health & Safety grant in the amount of $40,000 from
DHCD. These funds were used to eliminate on-site trip hazards at several of our
elderly complexes, such as walkway repairs, stair repairs, and ponding areas that
lead to water and ice build-up. In addition, we replaced the concrete entrances at
two buildings at our Broughton Road family housing development.

In addition, the Authority completed several smaller projects funded through the
Authority’s operating reserve. These included bathroom tile replacement at Farrell
Court; upgraded smoke detectors at the Roads School, a new fire alarm panel at




                                       162
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Farrell Court, masonry repairs at the Roads School, roof repairs at several
complexes, and kitchen cabinet replacement in several vacant units. Appliances
were replaced, as needed, at all complexes.


                      PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
Eligibility

In order to determine eligibility for public housing, anyone wishing to apply for
housing must submit an application and supporting documentation. The MHA
conducts a review of income and assets to determine preliminary eligibility.

The Net Income Limits for determining eligibility for state-aided housing, effective
8/1/14, are as follows:

                 No. in Household:                Net Income Limit:
                     1 person                          $47,450
                     2 people                          $54,200
                     3 people                          $61,000
                     4 people                          $67,750
                     5 people                          $73,200
                     6 people                          $78,600
                     7 people                          $84,050
                     8 people                          $89,450


Assets: There is no longer any asset limit in any of the Authority’s programs. The
actual interest earned on assets is included as income.

Local preference is given to eligible applicants who live or work in the town of
Marblehead.

Veteran’s Preference is given for family housing and to elderly local
applicants.

Applications / Occupancy Statistics




                                        163
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


All eligible applicants are screened to determine whether or not they are qualified
for public housing. This includes a criminal record check, landlord history, and
credit report.

In our elderly housing program, there were 149 applicants on the waiting list for
elderly housing as of 12/31/14. This includes 84 applicants under the age of 60.

In accordance with State guidelines, 13.5% of the units must be occupied by
disabled residents under the age of 60.

There were 27 vacancies in elderly housing in 2014.

The average age of a resident in our elderly housing program is 74 years.

There are 15 residents over the age of 90, including 5 residents age 95 or older. Our
oldest resident is 102 years old.

The average length of tenancy in our elderly housing program is 9 years.

In 2014, the family housing waiting list remained closed. This year, the Authority
completed a waiting list update, as required by state regulations. This included
notifying every applicant on the family housing waiting list to determine if they
were still interested, preliminarily eligible, and if their preference and priorities
remained the same. Those applicants that did not respond, were notified that they
name was being removed from the waiting list. As a result of this update, there were
38 families on the waiting list as of year-end.

During 2014, there were 2 vacancies in our family housing program.

The average length of tenancy in our family housing program is 8 years. The
longest length of tenancy is 28 years.

There are 103 children under the age of 18 living in the family housing
developments.

As of year-end, there were 44% minority households living in family housing.

Rent

Rent for public housing residents is based on household income.




                                        164
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



Residents of elderly housing pay 30% of their adjusted gross income for rent, which
includes all utilities: heat, hot water, electricity and gas. Residents of elderly
housing
have on-site laundry facilities at each complex. All residents have 24-hour on-call
maintenance. The average rent paid this year by an elderly resident was $380.00.

Family residents pay 27% of their adjusted income toward rent, and pay for their
own utilities. Family residents are also given an annual heat allowance of $500.00
(two bedroom unit) or $600.00 (three bedroom unit). Family housing residents also
have 24-hour on-call maintenance. The average rent paid by a family this year was
$434.00. The lowest rent paid by a family was $5.00 and the highest rent paid was
$1632.00.

State Regulations require the Authority to process an annual Rent Recertification of
every household, to determine continued eligibility. In addition, the Authority is
required to recertify rent any time there is a change in household income. In 2014,
the Authority processed 347 rent re-certifications, including annual re-certifications
and interim rent changes.




                                        165
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Maintenance

The Maintenance Department is responsible for the upkeep of all properties,
including work orders, vacancy preparation, grounds work, snow removal, system
inspections, custodial work and record-keeping. In 2014, the maintenance staff
completed 1473 work orders, including resident requests, emergency work,
inspection findings and site work. This represented a 35% increase over the
previous year.

The Department also performed the work necessary in 29 vacant units (27 elderly,
and 2 family units).

The MHA goals of efficiency and cost-effectiveness are achieved through a
comprehensive inspection process, which includes all MHA properties, dwelling
units, grounds and building exteriors and all major systems.

There were 403 unit inspections completed this year. These included an annual
inspection of every apartment, 34 move-in inspections, 20 move-out inspections, 19
interim inspections, and 34 new resident follow-up inspections

Regular inspections of the property grounds and building exteriors are done daily to
maintain the curb appeal of the property, and to immediately address any safety
concerns.

Staff Development / Employee Training

In 2014, staff attended trainings and workshops in the areas of capital planning,
small project design and construction; procuring designer services, ethics; social
media use; internal controls, maintenance and safety in the workplace.

Services to Residents

The Quarterly Music Program continued in 2014, and offered residents an
opportunity to hear professional musicians perform. Under a grant from the
Marblehead Cultural Council, a local agency, funded through the Massachusetts
Cultural Council, a State agency, the Music Committee, under the leadership of
Asst. Director Debra Larkin, arranged for several musical performances. In
addition, working with the Marblehead School Department, musical performances
by the Middle School Select Chorus and Marblehead High School’s acapella group,
Luminescence, performed for the residents during the year.




                                       166
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



The Authority sponsored a variety of guest speakers and special programs at this
year’s monthly coffee hours. In addition, several programs were held and speakers
addressed residents in conjunction with the No Smoking Policy, including
Marblehead Fire Department, Northeast Tobacco Program and North Shore Shared
Public Health Service Program.

All new residents to our senior housing complexes received a packet of information
entitled “Making the Connection” which outlines local services and community
resources available to them.

Recognizing that many of the families in our housing program often face challenges
resulting from domestic violence, job loss, health concerns, financial problems and
homelessness through no fault of their own, the Authority distributes a “Resource
Guide for Families” to all new residents. This Guide provides contact information
to families in need of services, and to assist them in locating the services that may
be available to them.

The Authority also sponsors a number of programs designed with our residents in
mind. These include the following:

Resident Service Coordination: This program links residents to the community
resources that will enable them to live independently for as long as possible;
develops a sense of community by encouraging interaction among residents; and
addresses tenancy related problems through the provision of services. This year, 48
referrals for services were made for homemaking, hoarding, transportation, food,
financial assistance, mental health counselling, and mediation. In addition, 5
residents of our family housing program were referred to organizations designed to
assist them with financial assistance and parenting issues.

The Annual Cookout was held in September. This year’s theme was “Hollywood”
Over 50 residents were served a traditional menu, with all of the food either donated
by local businesses, or prepared by the staff and members of the Board of
Commissioners.

Residents enjoyed our Annual Holiday Party held in December, with live music,
caroling, a performance by Marblehead High School’s acapella group,
Luminescence, and a visit from Santa. Once again, local businesses generously
donated gift certificates for the raffle, more than any other year.




                                        167
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


The Authority distributes a monthly newsletter to all three hundred and seven (307)
households to provide news and information on policies, programs and activities.

Several surveys were sent to residents this year, designed to obtain input from
residents regarding a variety of topics, including the No Smoking Policy, Resident
Service coordination, the MHA Capital Plan, and Maintenance services. The
information obtained from the surveys was used to design and /or improve programs
and services offered by the Authority.

                      COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES
In 2014, we continued to establish and maintain partnerships with many local
agencies and community organizations to strengthen and expand resident safety,
wellness programs and elderly support services.

The Authority held our 16th Annual Safety Program for residents of elderly
housing. This program is a collaboration between the Authority and the Marblehead
Police and Fire Departments, designed to help seniors live safely at home for as
long as possible. This program brings vital information on fire prevention, fall
prevention, and personal safety to the MHA residents.

The Marblehead Providers Group, consisting of representatives from local
service agencies and community organizations that provide services to seniors,
continued to meet each month to share information on programs and services,
collaborate, and outreach.

The Authority sponsored monthly health clinics conducted by the
Marblehead/Swampscott VNA at all of our community rooms, affording residents
an opportunity to have their blood pressure checked on a regular basis, discuss
medical conditions and have questions answered.

The Authority participated in an Eagle Scout Project with Jarod Chambers, Scout
troop #79, who completed his project at Powder House Court in July. Jarod and his
team built three (3) large flower boxes, and planted a variety of plants for the
residents to enjoy, with funding provided by the Authority.

The Executive Director participates on the TRIAD Council, a partnership between
the Essex County Sheriff’s Department, the District Attorney’s Office, the
Marblehead Police Department and the Marblehead Council on Aging. This year,




                                       168
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


the Authority sponsored a Car Fit program at one of our elderly developments in
conjunction with the TRIAD and the Essex County Sheriff’s department.

The Executive Director is past president and current member of the North Shore
Executive Director’s Association (NSHEDA). This group serves 65 housing
authorities north of Boston, and sponsors monthly speakers and programs.

The Housing Authority wishes to thank our dedicated and compassionate staff:
Assistant Director Debra Larkin, Housing Manager Danielle Caron, Administrative
Assistant Christine Levoshko, Office Clerk Dawn Lauria, Maintenance Supervisor
and Plumber, Phil Raithel, and Maintenance Department staff members Stephen
Abramo, Shane Libby, Dana Romboli, and Cyle Murray, for their dedication and
hard work during the past year.

The Housing Authority also wishes to express its sincere appreciation for the
outstanding cooperation of the town departments and the citizens of Marblehead,
who supported and assisted the Authority in our efforts to provide affordable
housing for the residents of Marblehead.

Respectfully submitted,


Nancy M. Marcoux,
Executive Director

Board of Commissioners:
Kurt James, Chairman and State Appointee
Pamela Foye, Vice Chair
Robert Bryne, Treasurer
Jean R. Eldridge, Assistant Treasurer
Virginia Healy-Kenney, Member




                                     169
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


        METROPOLITAN AREA PLANNING COUNCIL:
              NORTH SHORE TASK FORCE

Beverly, Danvers, Essex, Hamilton, Gloucester, Ipswich, Manchester by the Sea,
Marblehead, Middleton, Nahant, Peabody, Rockport, Salem, Swampscott, Topsfield
& Wenham

In 2014, the North Shore Task Force was happy to welcome planning staff for the
first time in the towns of Essex, Manchester-by-the-Sea and Middleton.

During 2014, the North Shore Task Force took part in a variety of activities,
including:

Developing a 2014 Work plan for potential meeting topics such as:
        o North Shore bike and pedestrian routes connection and conductivity,
        o Continuing our focus on N. Shore poverty issues as a follow up to our
            2013 workshop;
        o Downtown revitalization and community design issues;
        o Massachusetts zoning reform legislation;
        o Low Impact Development case studies from around New England;
            sea level rise and climate change preparedness/resiliency,
            implementation of new FEMA flood FIRM maps;
        o Planning for wildlife in community development;
        o Finishing the Priority Development/Priority Preservation community
            input and mapping projects for the ten remaining North Shore
            communities not covered in 2011;
        o Conducting an update on Chapter 91 regulations and case studies for
            filled and flowed tideland development occurring on the North Shore;
        o Review of new Cultural Districts and opportunities to explore and
            advance other cultural and historic areas on the North Shore;
        o Creating/maintaining affordable workforce housing in all North
            communities;
        o Identifying Unified Planning and Work Project UPWP study areas and
            Transportation Improvement Program priority projects.

   Holding a regional forum with the North Suburban Planning Council on the
    progress made in planning for and building affordable housing in both the
    North Suburban and North Shore Task Force subregions; presentation of




                                     170
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


    information and technical assistance available to town and cities interested in
    moving forward with affordable housing zoning and projects.

   Reviewing and offering input into a variety of regional transportation programs,
    including the Transportation Improvement Program, the Unified Planning and
    Work Program and the Regional Transportation Plan, as well as opportunities
    to participate in Transportation Demand Management and Suburban Mobility
    programs.

   Hosting an information workshop on MAPC’s Complete Streets policy
    adoption and implementation case studies by local communities.

   Working with the Great Marsh Coalition to produce the Coalition’s third annual
    Climate Adaptation and Mitigation Conference, focusing on North Shore
    coastal communities initial coastal resiliency planning efforts.

   Collaborating with the Massachusetts Bay Program to present a comprehensive
    workshop on Low Impact Development and Green Infrastructure techniques,
    regulation and local case studies.

   Hosting an informational meeting on how North Shore Task Force
    communities can take advantage of District Local Technical Assistance
    Funding and new MAPC Technical Assistance funding opportunities.




                                       171
       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


MMLD




                   172
       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


mmld




                   173
       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


mmld




                   174
       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


MMLD




                   175
       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


MMLD




                   176
       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


MMLD




                   177
       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


MMLD




                   178
       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


MMLD




                   179
       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


MMLD




                   180
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                   OLD BURIAL HILL COMMITTEE

The Old Burial Hill Committee was established in 2009 by the Board of Selectmen
to oversee and ensure the restoration of Old Burial Hill. The committee is
comprised of five members, appointed annually by the Board of Selectmen.
Members are Richard Coletti, Chairman, Bette Hunt, Chris Butler, Pam Peterson
and Sue Hogan. The Board meets on the third Wednesday of each month at 3:00 pm
in the Selectmen’s Meeting Room in Abbot Hall and as needed at other times. All
meetings are open to the public.
The committee’s work is guided by a detailed preservation master plan which was
developed for Old Burial Hill and funded by a grant from the Massachusetts
Historic Commission and town funds.
In 2014, the second phase of work was completed at Old Burial Hill. This work
included the restoration or resetting of over 150 markers and three tombs. The
work was completed by Monument Conservation Collaborative LLC and overseen
by Ivan Myjer of Building and Monument Conservation. The committee thanks both
firms for their excellent work and feels fortunate to have such skilled and
knowledgeable individuals involved in this effort.

In 2014 the gazebo was repaired, reroofed and repainted. This year the town also
began planning future plans including the repair of the stairway, and railing in order
to improve the overall appearance and access at Old Burial Hill. The committee is
very appreciative to James Emmanuel Landscape Architect who designed the
stairway at no cost and also to Gail Smith at North Shore Survey who donated the
survey for the project.
The Committee would like to recognize the tremendous amount of time volunteer
Standley Goodwin has spent at Old Burial Hill. He has documented each stone and
created several useful databases that have assisted the committee enormously. The
committee also would like to thank the generous donations of so many groups and
individuals in the town. The work done this year was done completely with donated
funds. Thank you to all of those who contributed financially for the benefit of the
old burial hill.
The Committee also thanks Rebecca Curran Cutting, Town Planner who
administered the activities of the board, Doug Gordon Tree Warden and his
department for the work they have some trimming and removing trees that pose a
risk to monuments.




                                        181
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Respectfully yours,
Richard Coletti, Chairman
Chris Butler
Sue Hogan
Bette Hunt
Pam Peterson




                                182
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


        OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISSION


In 2014 the Old and Historic Districts Commission (OHDC) held 22 meetings
consisting of 133 applications, 18 of which were sent to Public Hearing. OHDC
granted 132 Certificates of Appropriateness.

The Commission currently is made up of four full-time members and two alternate
members giving it a strong and enthusiastic knowledge base to draw upon. The
Commission saw a wide variety of applications for work in the Districts.
Applications for insulated simulated-divided light windows, skylights, and parking
– all non-historic features – continue to increase. The Commission works hard to
evaluate the merit of each application both as an individual property with particular
circumstances as well as a member of the larger historic districts with broader
preservation goals.

The Commission continues efforts to publicize and make clear the specific concerns
facing the Districts and the reasons behind its determinations. Administration of
OHDC is coordinated by the Engineering Department at the Mary Alley Municipal
Building. Meeting minutes are posted on the Town website and applications are
scanned and entered into a database accessible to other Town Departments.

The Commission would like to acknowledge with thanks the assistance of the
Building Inspection Department, Assessors’ Department, Town Clerk’s Office,
Engineering Department, Selectmen’s Office and especially the Board’s secretary,
Colleen King, for keeping the Board in order.


Respectfully submitted,
Charles Hibbard, Chairman
Liz Mitchell                        Julie Glass, Alternate
Sally Sands                         Gary Amberik, Alternate
Anthony M. Sasso




                                        183
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                            PLANNING BOARD

The Planning Board is an elected board comprised of five members and one
alternate member, each with a three year term. The board members for the year
2014 were James Bishop, Philip Helmes, Paul Elser, Edward Nilsson and Robert
Schaeffner. Robert Schaeffner served as the board’s alternate member until he was
elected as a regular member in May. In November, the board welcomed Rosanna
Ferrante who was appointed as the board’s new alternate member. Philip Helmes
serves as chairman. The Town Planner, Rebecca Cutting, oversees the board's
administrative process and provides technical assistance to prospective applicants
and interested parties.

The planning board meets regularly on the second Tuesday of each month and as
needed at other times. The regular meetings are held in the selectmen’s meeting
room in Abbot Hall at 7:30 PM. The agendas are posted on the town’s website and
at the office of the Town Clerk.

It is the responsibility of the planning board to approve different types of
development including divisions of land to create new lots, all new nonresidential
buildings over 700 square feet and all new residential construction and additions
that are over 500 square feet within the shoreline and harbor front districts. In
addition to the site plan approval special permits and subdivision control approvals,
the board issues smart growth special permits, wireless communication special
permits and incentive zoning special permits. State and local laws which govern the
process for these approvals are Massachusetts General Laws (MGL) Chapter 40A
(the Zoning Act); MGL Chapter 41, Sections 81K – 81GG (the Subdivision Control
Law); the Town of Marblehead Subdivision Rules and Regulations Chapter 258 of
the by-laws of the town of Marblehead , MGL Chapter 40A and the Town of
Marblehead Zoning Bylaws.

In 2014 there were nine Approval Not Required – Form A applications (ANR) at
the following addresses; 34 Chestnut Street, 51 & 55 Commercial Street, 9 Darling
& Washington, 8 Foss Terrace, 96 Front & 6R Merritt Street, 2 Gallison Avenue, 60
Tedesco Street, 25 Stramski Way, 31 & 33 Waldron Street.

The planning board had six site plan review public applications in 2014 at the
following addresses: 232 Ocean Ave (addition), 75 Naugus Ave (tear down) 10
Corn Point Road (tear down), 15 Batchelder Road (tear down), 10 Tioga Way




                                        184
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


(commercial), 24 Greystone Road (teardown). There were also several applications
for modifications.

The planning board issued one wireless communication facility special permit at 67
Cornell Road.

The board sponsored one zoning article for the 2014 Annual Town Meeting. The
article amended the zoning bylaw to reference updated flood insurance rate maps.
This article was necessary for the town to continue to participate in the National
Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) which it has participated in since 1973. The Flood
Insurance Rate Maps program enables property owners to purchase insurance
protection from the government against losses from flooding. Flood Hazard
Mapping is the basis of the NFIP regulations and flood insurance requirements. The
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) maintains and periodically
updates the Flood Insurance Rate Maps. The board held a public hearing on the
matter. The board spoke in support of the amendment and it received Town
Meeting approval. The updated maps went into effect on July 17, 2014.

Planning Board members continue to serve on a variety of Boards and Committees
in 2013 including Jim Bishop - Metropolitan Area Planning Council, Edward
Nilsson on the Zoning Sub-Committee and Design Review Committee.

The Planning Board thanks the Board of Appeals in the coordination and
cooperation on various projects throughout the year. The board also thanks former
board of appeals member Barbara Shefftz and the Building Department for their
input on the Planning Board’s Zoning Subcommittee.

The Board thanks Willy Lanphear who provides technical assistance to the board
and to prospective applicants. Planning Board applications are processed in the
Engineering Department by Colleen King. As always, the board extends a special
thanks Colleen for her remarkable efficiency and organizational skills, and her
exceptional dedication to her work.

Philip Helmes, Chairman
James Bishop
Paul Elser
Edward O. Nilsson
Robert Schaeffner
Rossana Ferrante – Alternate
Rebecca Cutting – Town Planner




                                      185
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                         POLICE DEPARTMENT


The Marblehead Police Department is pleased to submit to the citizens of
Marblehead our Annual Report for the year ending December 31, 2014.

For the year 2014, the police department had a total of 11,016 logged incidents
requiring police response with 287 of those incidents involving felonies. The
department had a total of 179 arrests including 44 for protective custody.
Additionally, 182 people were charged with offenses in court without having been
arrested. Department officers stopped 1233 motor vehicles for various violations
and issued a total of 668 citations. There were a total of 262 reported motor vehicle
accidents in 2013. Officers issued 2345 parking tickets during 2014.

In 2014 the Police Department saw several changes in personnel. Both Sergeant
Sean Sweeney and Officer David Ostrovitz were promoted to the rank of
Lieutenant. Officer Eric Osattin was promoted to the rank of Sergeant. With these
promotions, all ranking officer positions have been filled bringing the command
staff to its full complement, something we have not had in many years. Officer
Colin Coleman left the department to take a job with the Marblehead Electric
Department as he is actually an electrical engineer by training. Officers Christopher
Donahue and Michael Maccario graduated from the police academy in August and
have taken their place on patrol shifts. Additionally custodian Charles Sinclair Jr.
retired and was replaced by Douglas Laing. We wish all of these individuals well in
their current and future endeavors.

During 2014 we were again kept busy with the ongoing drain department project
through the business district on Atlantic Avenue, Pleasant Street and continuing
onto spring and Elm Streets. In November the chief was honored to attend counter
terrorism training in Israel sponsored by the Anti-Defamation League of
Massachusetts. This was a once in a lifetime chance to collaborate with law
enforcement professionals from Massachusetts and Israel on matters of security.
Additionally, in December, the Chief was sworn in as the president of the Essex
County Chiefs of Police Association, an honor he greatly appreciates. During the
fall we made some final upgrades to the E-911 dispatch center in the form of new




                                        186
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


windows. This much needed improvement now paves the way for the installation of
Next-Gen 911 sometime in 2015. Next-Gen 911 is a Statewide upgrade to the 911
system funded entirely by the Commonwealth E911 Department. We look forward
to this enhanced service for the town. Also in December, Marblehead officers
represented the Town and the Police Department by attending the funeral of Officer
Rafael Ramos in New York City. Sadly, in December, Marblehead saw its first
homicide in about 25 years. Officers from the Marblehead Police, the State Police
and the Essex County District Attorney’s office continue to work on that tragic case.
On behalf of the Police Department I would like to thank all the other departments
for their help over this past year and also thank the citizens of the Town for their
support and cooperation.
I would also like to commend the officers and staff, both sworn and civilian, for
their dedication and professionalism. I wish to express my most sincere gratitude
for the tremendous job they do in proud service to the Town of Marblehead each
and every day.

Respectfully Submitted,
Robert O. Picariello
Chief of Police

Police Department Personnel 2014:

Ranking Officers:
Chief                      Robert O. Picariello
Captain                    Matthew Freeman
Lieutenant                 Jonathan Lunt
Lieutenant                 Michael Everett
Lieutenant                 Sean Sweeney
Lieutenant                 David Ostrovitz
Sergeant                   Jason Conrad
Sergeant                   Nicholas Economou
Sergeant                   Sean Brady
Sergeant                   Eric Osattin

Patrol Officers:




                                        187
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Arthur Buckley Jr.       Charles Sinclair
Lori Knowles             Timothy Morley
Roy Ballard              Brendan Finnegan
Christopher Adkerson     Adam Mastrangelo
Christopher Gallo        Andrew Clark
Dean Peralta             Nicholas Michaud
Jason McDonald           Dennis DeFelice
Michael Roads            Colin Coleman (resigned to take a job at Municipal Light Dept.)
Daniel Gagnon            Neil Comeau
Michael Maccario         Christopher Donahue
E-911 Dispatchers:
Supervisor Amy Gilliland
Scott Kaufman            Alexandria Michaud
Teresa Collins           Christine Turner
Gregory Lapham           Harry Schwartz

Senior Clerk:
Deborah Frongillo

Part Time Clerk:             General labor:
Celia Martin                 Douglas Laing

Animal Control Division:
Animal Control Officer Betsy Cruger
Assistant                Laura Consigli
Assistant                Diane Treadwell

Animal Inspector:
Isabel Lorenco

School Traffic Supervisors:
Paul Lemieux              Edith Chalifour
John Spanks               Marjorie Mace
Warren Perry              Leroy Millett
Margaret Denis            Douglas Bates




                                           188
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Robin Reed                 Earline Lemieux
Wendy Keyes                Basil Rubin
Janet Golub                Robert Delisle
Thomas Adams               Susan L’Etoile
Peter Preble               Bunny McCarter
Margaret Powers            Rufus Titus
Sandra Rotman              Betty Greely*
Leslie Teague*             Trisha Dipietro*
(*denotes fill in)



                            ANIMAL CONTROL
2014 was a great year for adoptions at the shelter. There were a total of 264 pets
adopted which is up from 191 in 2013. Adoptions were as follows:

Kittens/Cats         249
Dogs                 10
Cockatiels           1
Chameleon            1
Hamsters             1
Guinea Pigs          2
Rabbits              1

There were 2,916 dogs licensed in Marblehead during 2014.

47 dogs were picked up for running loose and of those, 37 were returned to their
owners while 10 were adopted. We are proud to say that no domestic animals were
euthanized.

159 citations were written for various violations.

This year the Massachusetts homeless animal prevention and care fund became
available. This program provides spay and neuter certificates for stray animals and
owners who have financial hardship. This program is funded through a voluntary
tax check-off on the Massachusetts resident income tax return (Line 32F). Several




                                         189
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


families and even more stray/abandoned cats from Marblehead benefited from this
program, greatly reducing the number of potential unwanted litters.

Assistant Animal Control Officers Laura Consigli, Diane Treadwell and I would
like to thank and express our appreciation to all the dedicated volunteers at the
Animal Shelter that keep all the animals comfortable and safe 24/7, nights,
weekends, and holidays , through all kinds of New England weather. Thank You.

LEASH, AND LICENCE YOUR DOG!




                                      190
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                       RECREATION AND PARKS

The Recreation and Parks Commission submits this report for the year ending
December 31, 2014.

The Commission is made up of five residents who are elected annually at a general
town election on the second Monday in May each year. The Commission’s
regularly scheduled meetings are held on the first and third Tuesday of each month
at 7:00 PM in the Community Center at 10 Humphrey Street. These meetings
consist of reports, the appearance of persons or groups on the agenda, the review of
correspondence submitted for consideration, discussions of plans and objectives,
and reviews of policies, rules, and regulations as needed. The Commission reviews
and approves the hiring of personnel when recommendations are presented.
Programs and budgets are reviewed by the Commission annually and they act as an
advocate with the Finance Committee and at Town Meeting. The Commission also
reviews and approves the fees and charges made for various uses and programs
concerning the department. The Commission has responsibility for overseeing the
programming, rental, and operation of the Community Center. Night and weekend
fees and rental charges are used from the Revolving Fund to contribute to the
operating and utility costs of the Community Center.

Fields and School Athletic Facility Maintenance

The Department maintained the fields and was responsible for the field preparation,
including lines, for the following sports: High School (Varsity, Junior Varsity, and
Frosh): football, baseball, softball, lacrosse, soccer, and field hockey; Youth Sports
baseball, lacrosse and football; men’s softball and soccer, and co-ed softball.

Spring required the lining of fields for Varsity school sports first followed by Youth
Sports, mid-April through the summer, adult softball through September followed
by Varsity/JV soccer, field hockey, and football at the end of August. In
September, October, and November, all varsity, junior varsity and middle school
football, soccer, and field hockey fields and youth sports fields were maintained for
their seasons.

The mowing and trimming of athletic fields is done on weekdays with school in
session due to extensive usage on afternoons, evenings, and weekends. Line
marking with latex paint and/or non-caustic chalk is also done while classes are
inside the schools. Mowing of properties began in early April and continued




                                        191
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


through November on a five day per week schedule. Leaf cleanups ran October
through November, and spring cleanups ran March through May. In cooperation
with the school department special playground fiber (surfacing) was purchased and
added to all school and town playgrounds as needed for safety to reduce the chance
of injuries due to falls. The department was unable to “manicure” the grounds at the
Schools due to budget and manpower limitations; plantings and mulch were added
as time and materials allowed.

Budget and staff limitations, requests for extra work, and changes on short notice
remained a continual problem. Early spring and late fall field scheduling depended
on when fields were dormant, wet, frozen, or overused in any one area. Fall
remains the best time to do seeding and sod work on fields but was frequently in
conflict with the demands of the activities scheduled and the department’s continual
shortage of funds, materials, and manpower vs. those demands.


During the year a sports utilization group met at the Community Center with Sam
Ganglani and Linda Rice Collins acting as liaisons for the Commission. The group
kept communications and scheduling concerns open so the various town sports
teams and coaches could minimize conflicts and maximize usage.

The Recreation and Parks Department continued its participation in the Property
Tax write off program. There were a number of residents who provided outstanding
assistance as part of the program at various times during the year. They assisted
with cleanups and projects at Memorial Park, Fort Sewall, Redd’s Pond, Old Burial
Hill, Seaside Park, Village School athletic fields and the Recreation and Park
Department office. Volunteers also helped with a number of other tasks including
Carol Green at Devereux Beach, and Jim Zeiff and Fred Alling who assisted with
keeping the dog waste bag stations supplied at Fort Sewall and Crocker Park.

All line marking, mowing, and field schedule changes were coordinated by Grounds
Foreman Peter James. In the spring and fall seasonal employee, Bill James
maintained the lines on varsity and youth sports fields. His efforts continually
earned praise from the school athletic department and youth sports leagues. The
field paint budget continues to be strained by additional field requests and rising
paint costs.

The parks maintenance expense budget was again level funded while material and
delivery costs continued to increase. With these restrictions, and the limited
available seasonal maintenance staff, one of the park’s seven full time employees




                                       192
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


was again switched to a Wednesday – Sunday schedule and dedicated to trash
removal and restroom maintenance and repairs during the summer season.

The Commission received numerous requests for fund raising and business use of
the Community Center and the parks. These requests must be approved by a vote of
the Commission as required in the Town By-laws. Among those approved were:

       At the community center:
             o The Board of Health Flu Shot Clinics
             o The Marblehead Arrangers Garden Club Christmas plant and
                 arrangement sale during the Christmas Walk
             o The Democratic Town Committee Caucus
             o Scouting functions
             o Marblehead Family fund “Touch a Truck”
             o Marblehead Youth Badminton
             o Marblehead Youth Basketball
             o Adult Futsol
             o Youth Volleyball
             o Free seminars
             o New Recreation opportunities
       Hamond Nature Center:
             o The Massachusetts Audubon Society sponsored a camp program
                 during July with the staff from the Ipswich River Sanctuary
                 supervising.
             o Increased Recreation offerings by Recreation Supervisor Jim
                 Sullivan
       Devereux Beach and parking areas:
             o Senior Class Carnival
             o The M.S. Walk in April
             o The Boston Children’s Hospital “Cycle for Life” used the beach
                 to begin and end its fund raising bike ride
             o Marblehead Rotary Club’s Great Race
             o Several other bicycle and road races used the beach to begin and
                 end events
             o Rack storage for prams/kayaks
             o Winter dock storage
       Gerry Playground:
             o The Republican Town Committee
             o Several Cub Scout outings
             o Eco Farm Co-operative Market from spring through fall




                                     193
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


             o Rack storage for prams/kayaks
             o Intergenerational Gardens
        Other fields:
             o Boy Scout Troop 11 for the sale of Christmas trees at Gatchells
                  Playground

Building and Comfort Station (restroom) Maintenance

In addition to the community center other buildings required more attention due to
increased demand. The department continuously maintained a workshop and
equipment storage at Devereux Beach, the garage on Vine Street, Gerry Playground
garages and playground room storage and the Seaside Park grandstand storage area.

The department also maintained comfort stations (restrooms) at the following
locations: Chandler Hovey Park, Devereux Beach, Crocker Park, Fort Sewall,
Reynolds Playground, Gerry Playground, Gatchells Playground, and Hamond
Nature Center on a seasonal basis. Water & Sewer costs, electricity, cleaning
supplies, and paper goods came from the department budget. Doggie bags were
provided through the department’s budget at Chandler Hovey Park, Crocker Park,
Redd’s Pond and Fort Sewall. Dogs are prohibited from all athletic fields and
children’s playgrounds; all other Parks require dogs to be leashed and dog waste is
required by law to be disposed of in proper safe receptacles designed for fecal waste
disposal (not public trash barrels).

Park Improvements

Through hard work and dedication by a number of community groups and residents
the following park improvements were made possible.

        The Devereux Beach Playground received a major update through funding
         by Marblehead Family Fund and Shattuck Fund
        A number of memorial benches were refinished, including benches at
         Crocker Park and Chandler Hovey Park.


Equipment Replacement and Seasonal Staffing
The department continued to look for reliable seasonal maintenance staff from April
through November, utilizing college students during the summer school break
which left us short staffed during spring and fall months when we needed them the
most. This has resulted in the shifting of budget monies to allow for use of sub




                                        194
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


contracting in some areas to meet the demands of grounds maintenance.

Facility & Grounds Landscape Maintenance Program

The Parks staff was responsible for the landscape maintenance, mowing, trimming
of trees and shrubs, and removal of litter on the following properties in 2014 (Note:
“*” denotes athletic fields requiring continuous mowing, lining, and reconditioning
for the Town’s sports programs):



 Recreation, Parks, &         Cemetery & Historic
                                                              Public Landings:
 Forestry Properties:                Grounds:
   Castle Rock Park           Cressy Street Cemetery           Barnegat trash
 Chandler Hovey Park          Green Street Cemetery         Clark Landing trash
  Community Center            Hooper Tomb Cemetery            Cloutmans trash
     Crocker Park             Harris Street Cemetery       Commercial Street trash
   Devereux Beach            Old Burial Hill Cemetery        Parker Yard trash
      Fort Beach                   Redd’s Pond              Tucker Wharf Trash
                                Waterside Cemetery
      Fountain Park             (when requested by
                              Cemetery Department)
    Gerry Playground         School Dept. properties:      Other Public Grounds:
                                Beacon/Green Street
 * Gatchells Playground                                          Fort Sewall
                                      reserve
  * Hobbs Playground                Bell School               Gas House Beach
   * Orne Playground              Coffin School              Grace Oliver’s Beach
 * Reynolds Playground            Eveleth School                Red Steps Way
     * Seaside park                Gerry School             Fort Sewall turnaround
     Memorial Park                Glover School               Brookhouse Drive
                                * Marblehead High
 Devereux Beach garage                                      Gallison Avenue Way
                                      School
     Vine St. Garage           Lincoln Ave. reserve            Gatchells Green
                               * The Village Middle
                                                              Lovis Cove Beach
                                      School
                               * The Veterans Junior
                                   High School
                             Other Public Building’s           Conservation
         Other:
                                    properties:              Commission Lands




                                        195
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                                                           (As labor permits):
                                                           Bicycle, Exercise, &
  All public shade trees            Abbot Hall
                                                            conservation trails
Traffic Islands (donated)        Abbot Library               Robinson Farm
 All Public litter barrels         Gun House              Hamond Nature Center
                               Mary Alley Building             Forest River
                                 OKO Building                Hawthorn Pond
                                Old Town House                Steer Swamp
                                 Powder House                Wyman Woods
                               Tower Way Grounds                Ware Pond


Recreation Programs: Winter and Spring 2014

The department continued to offer programs at the Community Center and other
town facilities including: an adult boot camp, Saturday morning Youth Basketball, a
winter pre-school “indoor park”, pre-school T-ball, after school sports clinics,
“Wicked Cool for Kids” science classes, Lego workshops, piano lessons, kids boot
camp and a basketball program for girls in grades 2 – 8. Our annual Daddy /
Daughter Dance took place in February and quickly became the event of the season
for dads and daughters. Evenings featured adult pickup volleyball on Mondays and
Thursdays, a new adult pickup basketball program and youth volleyball on
Tuesdays and adult badminton on Wednesdays and Sundays. Marblehead Youth
Badminton and Marblehead Youth Basketball also rented time in the gym for their
programs on weekday afternoons.

A number of free community events such as the Halloween house decorating
contest and the yearly Christmas Parade were enjoyed by many.

Summer and Fall 2014 Recreation Programs

In the summer of 2014 the Recreation & Parks Department welcomed Travis Farley
as the new Recreation Supervisor.

Travis possesses a unique set of recreation programing and business skills that he
was able to develop in his previous positions while working for Boston University,
Fitchburg State and Massachusetts Institute of Technology.




                                       196
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


I’ve seen firsthand his solid ability to connect with residents that come to sign their
children up for our programing. This trait is very important and will serve him well
during his time as the Recreation Supervisor.

The department continued providing numerous summer outdoor programs (with
rain locations provided) including the Summer Park program for children (ages 5 –
11). The program met at Gatchell playground for seven weeks, from June to
August. The revamped program averaged 120 participants a week and became the
most talked about program around town. Other programs offered included
Magician’s football, field hockey, basketball, baseball, and lacrosse clinics; baseball
clinic, a soccer clinic; tennis lessons; youth sailing classes at Gerry Playground; and
kayaking instruction through the Little Harbor Boat House. During the fall, the
number of indoor programs at the Community Center increased and included new
programs such as: Pickleball Halloween Pumpkin Party, Junior League Soccer,
Little Ninjas Karate, Futsol and First Aid and CPR programs.

Department Staff

The Recreation and Parks Department is very fortunate to have a great staff of full
and part-time employees. Our employees strive to make a positive difference and
are committed to our community and, are willing to go the extra mile.

We want to thank the Department’s employees for their dedication to our Town’s
natural resources and recreation opportunities. The following people worked for the
Departments during the past year:
   Tim Short, Department Superintendent
   Travis Farley, Recreation Supervisor
   Ric Reynolds, Senior Clerk
   Peter R. James, Working Foreman/Building and Grounds
   Robert Gillis, Parks Maintenance Craftsman
   Greg Snow, Maintenance Craftsman/Mechanic
   Paul Acciavatti, Ryan Camarada, Brad Delisle, and John Morris, Maintenance /
    Groundskeepers.

There are many instructors who worked in the various recreation programs,
playground, and other leisure services within the department in the parks and at the
Community Center. Also, there were seasonal maintenance workers and caretakers
for the parks, and summer maintenance workers and lifeguards at Devereux Beach.




                                         197
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


The Commission would like to thank the staffs of the Tree, Highway, Health,
Harbormaster, Building, Schools, Finance, Municipal Light, Cemetery, Police, Fire,
and Water/Sewer Departments for their continued support and the Town
Administrator, Town Clerk’s, and Selectmen’s office for their assistance during the
past year.

Every year there are many who volunteer with maintenance and recreation
programs for the Town. The Commission wants to express its thanks on behalf of
all the residents who benefit from the countless hours volunteered, making
Marblehead a great place to live.


Respectfully submitted,

Chip Osborne, Chairman
Derek Norcross
Linda Rice-Collins
Gerald Tucker
Sam Gaglani


Tim Short
Superintendent, Recreation & Parks
Town of Marblehead




                                       198
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


             SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES

The following work was completed for the year ending Dec 31, 2014:

Scales Sealed:                             47
Gas/Diesel fuel meters                      6
Scales Condemned:                           0
Scales Rechecked After Repairs              0
Consumer Complaints Investigated            0
Report Letter Written                       0
Apothecary Sets Sealed                      3

Respectfully submitted,


David C Rodgers
Sealer




                                     199
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                       SHELLFISH CONSTABLES


Devereux, Tucker’s, and Goldthwait beaches were opened for the harvesting of surf
clams on October 1, 2014. As of the writing of this report there were 70 licenses
issued to date for the 2014/2015 season. The clamming season in Marblehead is
historically during the months of September through April. The areas may open
later and close temporarily during the season when storms and environmental issues
arise.

Monitoring diggers, checking water quality and testing of the clams is performed
constantly by the Board of Health, MA Division of Marine Fisheries and local
residents that have volunteered to serve as Shellfish Constables It should be noted
that as the Town continues to address antiquated surface drainage issues and related
cross connections he future looks brighter for shellfishing in many areas in Town.

The Town Clerk and her staff have been very diligent in processing the paperwork
for the State and issuing licenses.

Respectfully submitted,

Wayne O. Attridge, Chief Shellfish Constable

Constables:
Douglas Aikman                     R. Thomas Hamond
John Gregory Attridge              Susan Hogan
Raymond Bates Jr.                  Douglas Percy
Harry Christensen, Esq.            F. Webb Russell
David Donahue
Rick Cuzner
Jeffrey Flynn




                                       200
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


           TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION

In the summer of 1989, a series of horrific hate crimes occurred at the Jewish
Community Center of the North Shore and Temple Emanu-el. The community
response to these crimes was that of outrage. At that time, a group of citizens
requested that the Board of Selectmen appoint a task force.

At their regular meeting on August 2, 1989, the Board voted to establish and
commission the Task Force against Discrimination to help fight acts of
discrimination, hatred and bigotry. Ever since, the Task Force has had a visible
presence in the town, meeting in open session on a regular basis, creating
informative programming and responding to situations that have arisen. The
committee is appointed yearly by the Board of Selectmen and includes members of
the clergy, educators, students, the Marblehead Police Department and concerned
citizens.

Throughout 2014, the Marblehead Task Force against Discrimination celebrated 25
years of service to the Town and its citizens. Throughout the years, the mission has
been to work toward a safe community that appreciates and celebrates the strength
and resilience that diversity brings to any community. Marblehead is a place where
diversity is embraced and where discrimination will not be tolerated. During its 25th
Anniversary Celebration, TFAD enjoyed broad-based support from the community,
including Patti Rogers and the Abbot Public Library, Pam Peterson and the
Marblehead Museum, Joan Goloboy and MHTV, the Marblehead Community
Charter Public School, the Devereux School, the Marblehead Public Schools, Don
Morgan and the Marblehead Farmer’s Market, Chief Robert Picariello of
Marblehead Police Department, the Board of Selectmen, and all of our Task Force
members.

To kick off its 25th Anniversary Celebration, on April 1, 2014, the Task Force
collaborated with RAW Art Works of Lynn and the Abbot Public Library to screen
several films that were created by students at RAW Arts. Chris Gaines of RAW,
Patti Rogers, Director of the Abbot Public Library, and Marblehead’s own Tom
Foley collaborated to make this an exciting and meaningful event. The films were
extraordinary and well received by all. The student filmmakers were poised and
eloquent, and the discussion, moderated by Tom Foley, was truly inspirational.

On May 28, the Task Force came before Marblehead’s Board of Selectmen to
present 25th Anniversary Awards to the students of the Charter School, Devereux




                                        201
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


School, and Marblehead Public Schools who submitted artwork, poetry, and prose
in celebration of the Task Force’s mission to build community and widen diversity.
The students’ work was delightful and we want to thank the teachers for the
significant time and effort they put into this project, as well as Jim Nye and National
Grand Bank for donating the awards. The winning entries were displayed as part of
the Marblehead Festival of the Arts (July 3-6) in both the “Student Art” and
“Writers’ World” exhibits.

One message of the 25th Anniversary was that Marblehead has a proud history of
inclusion and support for all people. From June 11 – 28, the Abbot Public Library
and Marblehead Museum presented a display at the library about Marblehead’s
involvement in the Underground Railroad. A reception on June 25 included a
Gallery Talk with Museum Director Pam Peterson, and Joe Froggers and lemonade
for all in attendance.

In addition, TFAD’s student representative Michael Katzen created a PSA with help
from students at MHS, the Marblehead Police Department, and MHTV. The PSA
was on display at Abbot Library during the Marblehead Festival of the Arts and was
shown on MHTV.

On July 26, 2014, Task Force members staffed a booth at the Marblehead Farmer’s
Market and distributed 25th Anniversary decals and information. Rebecca Neuman-
Hammond enhanced the TFAD logo to add the 25 th Anniversary. Eastern Bank
donated the funds to print decals for students and members of the community.

Twenty five years ago, in response to desecration at the Jewish Community Center
and Temple Emanu-El, there was a tremendous outpouring of community support,
and the Task Force against Discrimination was born. TFAD’s year-long 25th
Anniversary Celebration culminated on July 27 in an event that included both the
Jewish Community Center and Temple Emanu-El. Rabbi David Meyer of Temple
Emanu-El, JCC Executive Director Marty Schneer, Helaine Hazlett, Deacon Joe
Whipple, Harvey Michaels, and many Marblehead residents who attended the
march 25 years ago were again present. In addition, new voices were added,
including Robert Trestan, the Anti-Defamation League’s New England Regional
Director, and many new Marblehead residents who came to show their support for
TFAD’s present mission and continuing work in Marblehead.

We deeply appreciate the unflagging support of the Marblehead Board of Selectmen
over the last 25 years. With their involvement, we have accomplished so much for
our town and for future generations.




                                         202
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



The Task Force would like all citizens to know about the work of the Task Force
and how to reach out for help if needed. For this reason, the Task Force continues
to be grateful for the Town Moderator’s permission to display the town's No Place
for Hate banner at Town Meeting.

The need for Marblehead’s Task Force against Discrimination is even more
pressing today than it was at its founding 25 years ago in 1989. Children in
Marblehead’s schools must feel safe and respected, no matter what their faith,
sexual orientation, class, or race. People walking on Marblehead’s streets must feel
welcome and honored, no matter what their age or country of origin. The Task
Force provides a critically needed service to the community and sets a tone that
significantly affects who we are as a town now and who we will become over the
next 25 years.

The Task Force Against Discrimination continues to call on Marblehead residents,
of all ages, races, classes, sexual orientations, faiths, physical and mental abilities,
and backgrounds, to join with the Task Force Against Discrimination in continuing
to make Marblehead a respectful, supportive, and inclusive community for its many
and diverse citizens and visitors.

Respectfully submitted,

Helaine R. Hazlett, Co-Chair
Rev. Dr. Anne Marie Hunter, Co-Chair

Michael Katzen
Harvey Michaels
Chief Robert Picariello
Monica Tecca
Loren Weston
Deacon John Whipple
Ed Grogan
Rebecca Neuman-Hammond




                                         203
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


               MARBLEHEAD TREE DEPARTMENT

Public shade trees located on public ways are under the jurisdiction of the Tree
Warden and the four person tree crew. The department tries to identify and reduce
tree hazards along public ways including the parks, cemeteries, and school grounds.
The department removed over one hundred dead or hazardous trees also removed
the same amount of stumps, and trimmed well over four hundred trees and planted
forty new trees around town. Telephone calls from residents regarding tree matters
remained heavy through the spring and summer. We made every effort to respond
to all calls. Tree Department employees also assisted the Light Department with
line clearing. The Tree Department also assists the DPW with snow plowing and
snow removal. The Tree Department purchases seedlings from the Massachusetts
Tree Wardens Association that were planted in conservation areas by the
Marblehead conservancy and other volunteers. I would like to thank the DPW,
MLD, and the Water Sewer Department for their assistance throughout the year. I
would like to thank the Tree Department employees for their hard work and
dedication and the ongoing support from the Town of Marblehead


Respectfully submitted,
Doug Gordon,Tree Warden

Ed Park, Foreman
Art Beauchesne, Groundsman
Walter Leszczynski, Heavy Equipment Operator
Alex Fields, Tree Climber/Maintenance




                                       204
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                            VETERANS’ AGENT

I hereby submit my report as Veterans Agent, Flag Officer, Veterans Burial Officer,
and Veterans Graves Registration Officer for the year ending Dec 31, 2014.

My number one duty is to the Veterans of the Town of Marblehead and their
families. I continue to attend State and Federal training sessions and seminars to
remain updated in all aspects of Veterans Affairs.

Office records for 2014 indicate that 7 Veterans or their families filed for benefits
under Mass General Laws, Chapter 115. This chapter of the law provides assistance
to Veterans in need.

Requests for assistance in filing for Department of Veterans Affairs Benefits
(Federal) remained high. This office has encouraged enrollment in the VA
Healthcare System. Many Marblehead Veterans have taken advantage of this health
benefit, which includes obtaining daily prescription drugs for $9.00 per month for
each medication. Casket Flags and Grave Markers were the principal Death
Benefits filed for with the Department of Veterans Affairs

Packages were sent to our service men and women deployed overseas in the WAR
ON TERROR by C.A.P.T.S. I would also like to thank Post 32 American Legion,
The Gerry Five VFA, Chaplain Lyman Rollins VFW POST 2005, the Brings
Family (C.A.P.T.S), and all the people who donated to the Marblehead Veterans
Donation Account. Keep these brave men and women in your prayers and thoughts.

A special commemorative coin was given to COLD WAR Veterans or their
surviving spouses on Veterans Day 2014.

A total of 55 Marblehead Veterans were laid to rest between Nov 11, 2013 and Nov
11, 2014. WORLD WAR TWO VETERANS numbers are few in town. As a town
and country we have an obligation to this generation of Americans, “THE
GREATEST GENERATION”. Service to our Veterans and their families remains
the most important goal of this office.


Respectfully submitted,
David C Rodgers, Veterans Agent




                                        205
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                WATER AND SEWER COMMISSION

The Water and Sewer Commission is pleased to submit its report for calendar year
2014. During the year our staff performed routine maintenance and completed
several projects as well as continued with the planning for several new
improvements to be completed by the Water, Sewer and Drain Departments.

The Water Department continued with its annual maintenance and inspection
program that included painting and replacement of hydrants, water quality testing,
backflow inspection, water meter reading and meter replacement, as well as the
continued installation of new radio meter-reading devices. There was an emphasis
on the water main valves in town, with many valves added, exercised and replaced.
Other activities done by the department included emergency water main repairs and
on-site assistance for our customers with various requests. Liston Services was
contracted to complete leak detection on 95 miles of water main. Three leaks were
located by that investigation and repaired by the department. A contract for the
Seaview Ave water main cleaning and lining was awarded to N. Granese and Sons
and completed May, 2014. A pilot program for valve assessment was conducted by
Wachs Water Service with excellent results.        The department also accepted
delivery on a F350 Truck with utility body.

The Sewer Department continued with its annual maintenance and inspection
program that included upgrades and repairs to its 28 sewer pumping stations. The
crew still noted a dramatic increase in clogged pumps due to non-flushables
entering the sewer pump station. Public information handouts were developed and
distributed in problem areas, explaining how the wipes and dental floss create
problems in our sewer system. A contract was issued to Wachs Water Service for
infiltration and inflow inspection in the Clifton Pumping District. Other activities
performed by the department were line cleaning, root treatment and an on-going
inspection program of over 100 miles of sewer mains and over 3,000 manholes.

The Storm Drain Department maintained over 2,000 catch basins throughout town.
Department projects included the rebuilding of 78 catch basins and manholes and
the annual cleaning of all catch basins during the month of November.

Phase I of the Pleasant Street Drainage Project, which was approved by residents at
the May, 2012, Annual Town Meeting, was completed the fall of 2014 with the
paving of Atlantic Ave from Hawkes street to Five Corners and Essex Street. Joseph
P Cardillo & Sons Inc., the project contractor installed a 48” Drain pipe, relocated




                                       206
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


both the sewer and water mains on Spring Street. The process was complicated by
large amounts of ledge and existing underground utilities, and gas vaults in close
proximity to the work. Phase III work will begin on Elm Street and continue up
Roosevelt Ave crossing over to Evans Rd. Phase II work will include work on
Pleasant St, School Street and Sewall St.

Our office staff has once again been active, processing over 30,000 bills while
collecting over $7,000,000 in revenue and addressing customer inquiries. A
quarterly newsletter, “The Flow N’ Go,” is now published. The on-line payment
program continues to be a convenient bill payment option; customers can register
for on-line payment at www.marblehead.org.

The Water and Sewer Commission welcomes Nathanial Kobialka as a Special
Labor I for the Water department.

We would like to thank all of our staff for their dedication and accomplishments
during the year. Without their help, none of these accomplishments would have
been possible. We also extend our appreciation to the other Town Departments for
their cooperation and, last but certainly not least, to the members of the Water and
Sewer Commission for their valued commitment, guidance and expertise throughout
2014 and for their continued support in 2015.
Respectfully submitted,


Amy McHugh
Superintendent


Marblehead Water and Sewer Commission
F. Carlton Siegel, P.E. (Chairman)
John P. Doane (Vice Chairman)
Wilbur E. Bassett, P.E.
Bradford N. Freeman
R. Thomas Hammond
Telephone (781) 631-0102
Fax (781) 631-2670

Amy McHugh, Superintendent              Bradley Perron, Assistant Superintendent




                                       207
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Office Staff:                                 Drain Department Employees:
Paul E. Jalbert, Office Manager               William Larios, Leader Drains
Helen Smith, Billing Technician               Jeffrey Maskell, Special Labor I
Lynne DeGrandpre’, Special Clerk

Water Department Employees:                   Sewer Department Employees:
Gregory Burt, Special Labor III               Mark Fulton, Special Labor III
Peter Dorney, Water Technician                James Johnson, Mechanic Supervisor
Michael Marsters, Mechanic Pipefitter         Jonathan Morley, Mech/TV Specialist
Corey Smith, Mechanic Pipefitter              Michael Atkins, Mechanic Pipefitter
David Cameron, Heavy Equip Operator           Brian Conrad, Mechanic Pipefitter
Tim Cox, Heavy Equip Operator                 Eric Hildonen, Heavy Equip Operator
Sam Snow, Special Labor I                     Steven Hull, Special Labor I
Nathaniel Kobialka Special Labor I            Dana Peralta, Special Labor I

                     WATER DEPARTMENT REPORT

    1. Water Breaks                                            10
    2. Hydrants Replaced                                       21
    3. Additional Hydrant installed                              1
    4. Hydrants Repaired                                       45
    5. New Main Line Valves Installed                          13
    6. New Water Service and Renewals                          18
    7. Inside Valves Replaced                                  35
    8. New Water Mains or Extensions                           767 ft
    9. Water Main Cleaned and Lined                            2,500 ft
    10. Water Services Repaired                                7
    11. Replaced Gate Boxes                                    30
    12. Frozen Meters                                          10
    13. Hydrants Painted                                       55
    14. Trouble Calls                                          36
    15. Radio Reader Installations                             204
    16. Main Gate valve Exercised                              160
    17. Dig Safe mark outs                                     1288

                     SEWER DEPARTMENT REPORT

    1.   Sewer Lines Cleaned                  51,951/ 69,000 ft/gals
    2.   Root Treatment                       3,719/ 6,000 ft/gals




                                        208
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


3. Grease Control                         2,000/ 2,800 ft/gals
4. Wet Wells Cleaned /H2O used                38/ 18,500 gals
5. Vacuum Dig Repairs                                    42
6. Lines Televised – Sewer                               500 ft
7. Service Repaired – Permits                            15
8. New Services – Permits                                9
9. Construction Repairs                                  1
10. Manholes Repaired                                    14
11. New Manholes                                         4
12. 10” line replaced                                    75 ft
13. 12” line replaced                                    438 ft
14. Pumping Stations Maintained                          28
    Repairs made included but were not limited to overhaul/replacement of
    sump pumps, motor drive couplings, seals, compressors, air lines,
    generators, computer component controls, door way access and hatch cover
    repairs along with grounds keeping and fence repair. Clogged Pumps
    pulled multiple times at Mooring Rd, Green St and Edgemere to remove
    medical waste, rags, wipes, dental floss and towels.

15. Vehicles/ Major Equipment Maintained
    General preventative maintenance work was performed on all vehicles,
    heavy equipment and portable pumps. All generators had bi - annual
    inspections to insure correct operation and maintenance New Water pump
    installed and 500 ft of hose on 1996 GMC vacuum truck

16. Dig Safe Mark Outs                           1288
17. Trouble Calls / Call Outs                      70

                  DRAIN DEPARTMENT REPORT

1. Catch Basins Cleaned                        1741
2. Catch Basin New                                6
3. New Manholes                                   4
4. Drain Lines Cleaned                        892 ft
5. Drain line added                           923 ft
6. Sump Pump Connection                           11
7. Catch Basin- Manhole repair                    87
8. Inspected and maintained all town open ditches and outfalls
9. Drain system monitored during all snow and rain events
10. Graded and hot topped all drain work




                                  209
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


         REPORT OF THE SOUTH ESSEX SEWERAGE DISTRICT

The South Essex Sewerage District (SESD) treatment facility performed well
throughout 2014. As in past years, the SESD staff has continued to refine the
operations to assure the best level of treatment at the lowest possible cost to the
member communities and ratepayers. We recognize the employees of SESD and
commend them for a very productive and successful year.

The District has two transmission lines (which serve Marblehead exclusively) that
travel from Marblehead to the SESD Treatment Plant in Salem. These pressure
sewer pipelines traverse under both Salem Harbor and Marblehead’s West Shore
Harbor. In the spring of 2013, one of these main transmission lines experienced a
failure. The failure was detected and the pipeline was promptly taken off line. An
emergency repair was completed and the line was returned to service. As a result of
the failure, The District performed a condition assessment of both transmission
lines. The assessment determined that both lines exhibited signs of severe corrosion
and must be replaced. Fall of 2014, SESD received approval of the project from the
United States Army Corp of Engineers (USACOE), Executive Office of Energy and
Environmental Affairs (MEPA), Coastal Zone Management (CZM), Division of
Marine Fisheries (DMF), Massachusetts Historical Commission (MHC),
Marblehead and Salem Conservation Commissions, Department of Environmental
Protection (DEP), 401 Water Quality Certification and Chapter 91 License and
Massachusetts Board of Underwater Archaeological Resources (MBUAR) . The
project was publicly bid and the contract was awarded to Caldwell Marine
International LLC. Construction is scheduled to start early 2015.

The Town of Marblehead and SESD are committed to protecting the environment
and providing outstanding service to the residents of Marblehead.

We are pleased to answer any questions that may arise concerning our wastewater
treatment facility and collection system. The Town is proud to be a member
community of the SESD and looks forward to the continued operation of this clean,
safe and efficient facility.

Respectfully submitted,

Amy McHugh
(SESD Representative)




                                       210
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                         South Essex Sewerage District
                     EXPENSES & REVENUES REPORT
                          TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD
                                Fiscal Year 2014
               Report Prepared by Karen A. Herrick, SESD Treasurer
REVENUE
                     Method of          Percent      Marblehead        SESD
 Description      Apportionment         Of Total      Amount            Total
Assessment       FY14 Budgeted             7.67%      $ 2,165,420    $28,217,593
Revenue          Apportionment
Member           Actual                      0.00%             0     (1,280,103)
Refunds Paid
Chemical         District Apportions         0.00%             0              0
Reimburse-
ments
Sewer Rate       Fixed Amount                0.00%             0              0
Relief           Budgeted for
                 Marblehead
                 Utilization
Septage          District Apportions         7.16%        11,916        166,360
Revenue
MWPAT        Based on Cost                   7.27%       479,838      6,601,651
Loan         Apportionment
Subsidies    Agreements
Interest     Actual & District               9.39%          6,979        74,301
Income,      Apportions Based
Investment   on Average Monthly
Income       UFB Balance
Energy       Actual                          7.01%           349          4,976
Savings
Revenue
Misc Revenue Actual                          7.53%          1,228        16,315
Other Income
Special      District Apportions             0.00%             0          5,231
Assessment
TOTAL REVENUES                               7.89%     $2,665,730    $33,806,324




                                       211
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


EXPENSES

                    Method of          Percent      Marblehead    SESD
 Description     Apportionment         Of Total      Amount       Total
0 & M 2000     Based on Percentage        0.00%               0    127,262
               of Flow
O & M 3000     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0     282,287
               of Flow
O & M 4000     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      30,840
               of Flow
O & M 5000     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0     342,488
               of Flow
O & M 6000     Based on Percentage          7.06%        25,887    366,492
               of Flow
O & M 7000     Based on Percentage          7.53%       309,051   4,105,295
               of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
               Flow and Solids
O & M 7100     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      16,157
               of Flow
O & M 7200     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      13,194
               of Flow
O & M 7300     Based on Percentage     100.00%            5,237      5,237
               of Flow
O & M 7400     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      30,469
               of Flow
O & M 7500     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      12,527
               of Flow
O & M 7600     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      28,419
               of Flow
O & M 8010     Based on Percentage          7.53%       120,218   1,596,924
               of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
               Flow and Solids
O & M 8020     Based on Percentage          6.96%       146,070   2,097,743
               of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
               Flow and Solids
O & M 8030     Based on Percentage          7.06%        37,687    533,546
               of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
               Flow




                                      212
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                     Method of         Percent      Marblehead     SESD
 Description      Apportionment        Of Total      Amount        Total
O & M 8040      Based on Percentage       8.38%         135,252   1,613,677
                of BOD
O & M 8060      Based on Weighted           7.57%       290,855   3,842,716
                Percentage of
                BOD/TSS
O & M 9000      Based on Percentage    100.00%          133,338    133,338
                of Flow
Special         Actual                      0.00%            0           0
Assessment

Principal –     Based on Cost               6.95%       617,056   8,876,240
Long Term       Apportionment
                Agreements
Interest –      Based on Cost               6.00%        71,304   1,188,346
Long Term       Apportionment
                Agreements
MWPAT           Based on Cost               7.27%       479,838   6,601,651
Loan            Apportionment
Subsidies       Agreements
MWPAT           Based on Cost               7.20%         4,316     59,926
Administra-     Apportionment
tive Fees       Agreements
Interest –      Based on Cost               0.00%            0           0
Short Term      Apportionment
                Agreements
Debt Expense    Based on Cost               0.00%            0           0
– Origination   Apportionment
Fees            Agreements
Lieu of Taxes   Based on Cost               8.94%        44,723    500,000
                Apportionment
                Agreements
Intergovern-    Based on Cost               0.00%            0           0
mental Fines    Apportionment
                Agreements
Stabilization   Based on Percentage         0.00%            0           0
                of 3 Yr. Avg. of
                Flow and Solids




                                      213
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                   Method of     Percent      Marblehead      SESD
 Description    Apportionment    Of Total      Amount         Total
Transfer to    Actual             100.00%         364,420      364,420
CPF’s
Misc.          Actual                 0.00%            0             0
Expense
TOTAL                                 8.50%    $2,785,252   $32,769,194
EXPENSES


EXCESS (DEFICIENCY) OF REVENUES OVER                          (119,522)
EXPENSES FOR MARBLEHEAD




                                214
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                    ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS

The Zoning Board of Appeals met in regular once-monthly sessions in 2014 from
January to December, excluding November. The Board also conducted one
additional session in early spring. In total, the Board conducted 74 advertised
hearings, granting 64 applications, allowing 6 to withdraw, denying 3, and
continuing 1 into 2015. The Board also conducted 16 non-advertised administrative
hearings for minor modifications to previous special permits.

At the close of 2014, Board members were David Tubridy, Alan Lipkind, William
Barlow, Leon Drachman, and William Moriarty. The alternates were Christopher
Casey, Paige Hintlian, Bruce Krasker and James Rudolph.

Special thanks to the custodial staff for smoothing the way and to the Board’s
secretary, Colleen King, for keeping order.


Respectfully submitted,
William R. Moriarty
Chair




                                      215
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                         SCHOOL DEPARTMENT

                   MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE
                Kathleen Leonardson Term Expires May, 2016
                Meredith Tedford    Term Expires May, 2016
                Susie Pratt         Term Expires May, 2017
                William Ackerman II Term Expires May, 2015
                Michael Murphy Esq. Term Expires May, 2017

                                ORGANIZATION
                         Chairperson      Kathleen Leonardson
                         Vice-Chairperson Meredith Tedford
                         Secretary        Susie Pratt

                              REGULAR MEETINGS

The regular meetings of the School Committee are held in the High School Library
bi-monthly at 7:30 p.m. except during the months of July and August.

                   MARBLEHEAD SCHOOLS ON THE WEB

Additional information about all Marblehead Public Schools programs can be found
on the internet site at: http://www.marbleheadschools.org

                        ADMISSIONS REQUIREMENTS

Entrance Age: Any child who will be six years of age on or before August 31 of that
school year may be admitted to first grade. The minimum age for entering
kindergarten shall be five years on or before August 31 of that school year.

Children entering school for the first time are required to present a birth certificate,
a physical exam (including vision screening for distance visual acuity and stereopsis
and a hearing screening) completed within 12 months prior to the date of school
entry, and documentation of immunizations. All children must be immunized
against polio; diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus(DPT); measles, mumps and rubella
(MMR); Hepatitis B; and Varicella vaccine or M.D. documentation of
disease(chicken pox). Exemptions from immunizations are allowed under
Commonwealth of Massachusetts Law for either religious or medical reasons, both
of which require documentation.




                                         216
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



                      NO SCHOOL ANNOUNCEMENTS
No school announcements will be available on television channels 4, 5 and 7, on the
Marblehead Public Schools website at http://www.marbleheadschools.org as well as
through email and phone messages with the SchoolMessenger system. Telephone
calls should not be made to the Police or Fire Departments.

Since widely varying conditions in the various parts of Marblehead may make it
difficult to reach decisions about inclement weather conditions, parents are
requested to exercise their discretion in regard to their own children's attendance.

                            2014-15 SCHOOL HOURS
                      High School        7:55 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
                    Middle School        8:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
                    Village School       8:00 a.m. to 2:15 p.m.
                    Glover, Gerry, Bell  8:15 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
                    Coffin               8:05 a.m. to 2:20 p.m.

                       SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS

The annual School Committee and Superintendent’s School Budget seeks to reflect
the priorities identified in the district’s mission, vision, core values and goals, with
the assumption of concurrently providing sufficient resources to ensure compliance
of all federal, state and locally mandated educational programs and requirements.

Marblehead Public Schools Mission Statement
Our Mission is to foster in our students a passion for learning, and to provide a safe
nurturing environment in which they can develop the values, knowledge and skills
needed to achieve full potential in their personal, social and work lives, and to
become contributing members of society.

Marblehead School Committee Vision Statement
A model school district, exemplary in its student engagement and academic
excellence, where all students meet their highest potential with the support of
outstanding instructional leadership, and in partnership with the community.

Aligning with these mission and vision statements, our primary budgetary goals are
to provide students with the highest quality administrative and instructional staff,




                                         217
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


curriculum and assessment tools, and an environment conducive to the potential of
greatest student achievement. The budget process drives the funding priorities to
these goals with student outcomes always at the forefront of planning.

Preparation of the annual school budget endures as one of the most important yearly
duties undertaken by the School Committee and Administration. The budget
process, commencing with needs assessment and identification of district goals, is
the opportunity for the district to communicate and seek support for its priorities,
educational programs and operational needs. Our guiding vision continues to be
academic achievement and the intent that all students fulfill their greatest potential
academically and emotionally.

The budget developmental process begins with the Superintendent’s Preliminary
Budget Goals presented to the School Committee and continues with a series of
public discussions vetting new priorities and initiatives, as well as the continuation
and level services projections of existing operational expenditures. Internal requests
from Principals and Department Heads are funneled through the Business
Management Team and Superintendent, and discussions with the Town Finance
Office are held verifying contractual increase requests and corresponding
supporting data. These collaborations are compiled into a final Superintendent’s
proposed budget and is presented to School Committee for approval as well as
posted publically on the schools website and presented to the Town Finance
Committee and ultimately Town Meeting.

Budget Process for FY16
Like the FY15 budget cycle, this year the budget process includes internal budget
requests based on needs assessment from principals and department heads. While
historically the model to fund expense accounts was a level services assumption,
needs based requests better serve to identify and prioritize building specific needs in
instruction and facilities. While not every identified need can be funded, tracking
and prioritizing these requests will allow the Schools to commence a longer term,
five year, budget plan. This plan will allow for a staggered fulfillment of high level
needs with the realignment of existing non-recurring or ‘off-year’ operating funds.
This year there will, and should be, serious and thoughtful discussion about the
direction of the Marblehead Public Schools, its long term budget and the




                                         218
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


educational goals and priorities desired for our children and our future. As
Administration works to create and keep current, a five year-Strategic Plan,
Curriculum Cycle and Revision document, Facilities Master Plan, and Technology
Plan, we seek to always align and keep consistent building budget planning with
district directed planning and initiatives.

This year during the FY16 budget process, Building Principals and Department
Heads were asked to submit the following:
     School/Building Operational plan – narrative supporting budget plan
        including building/department specific missions, goals, activities and
        performance objectives and indicators
     Total appropriation and account line request breakout by School/Building
        – with notes and supporting data where appropriate or non-level request
     Requests to create and fund new account lines to better track specific new
        programs or initiatives
     Staffing FTE (Full Time Equivalent) requests – with notes and supporting
        enrollment data or specific student service needs
     High Priority Needs – Building and Department heads were asked to
        indicate top three ‘needs list’ items specific to their School or Department
        and approximate estimated expense. This could be staffing needs, facility
        needs, grounds or equipment needs. The goal is to compile this information
        to get a feel for high priority requests and assess the ability to address them
        in a strategic long term budget plan. These needs are beyond level funding
        budget capacity and help Administrators create long term budget forecasts
        based on need.

The Administrative team has looked closely at current and requested appropriations
and realigned where possible based on need, rather than following the traditional
level fund rule for each account line appropriation. We are appreciative of our
collaboration with the Town and are able to continue to fund in FY16 the increase
in professional teaching staff FTE added to the faculty in the current 2014-2015
school year. We continue to provide to the School Committee, Finance Committee
and Town Officials, enrollment, backup and historical data to support the additional
teaching staff and have received positive feedback from the community regarding
the important additions to our faculty.




                                         219
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


During this FY16 budget process, we have also continued to collaboratively review
centralizing relevant funding to the district level expenses such as 504, testing and
assessment and curriculum/instructional online service annual subscription contract
expenditures. This centralization for specific expenses provides us with the ability
to not only track these funds in detail but to also report certain expenditures on state
mandated reports in a more detailed manner which can successfully effect grant
funding. FY16 will show district level funding for special education instructional
supplies de-centralized to the building budgets to facilitate the building
Administrators in purchasing for their unique student demographic and specific
needs at the School level.

It is our goal to work collaborative with central and building administration to
provide for the unique changing needs at each school building. Identified needs
specific to building level from the administrators have included: support/office
staff, curriculum leaders and coaches, facilities needs such as flooring and
instructional and media materials updates. The goal is to address requests through
re-appropriation of level service funding wherever possible and additionally provide
creative ways to supplement needs through internal resources, grants and donations.

District Goals Summary FY16
The past few budget seasons have seen many positive changes to our operating
structure. Fiscal 13 successfully brought senior leadership positions to the district,
rounding out and strengthening the Administrative team. Fiscal 14 budget initiatives
included major curriculum adoption, accompanying professional development, and
large- scale technology upgrades to infrastructure and equipment.

In fiscal 2015, district level goals continued to include planned technology
upgrades, initiatives in student academic assessment, and aligning curriculum to
Common Core State Standards with priority on ELA (English Language Arts).
Additionally, our notable uptick in enrollment, as well as historical understaffing,
has called for top priority to be placed on professional staffing needs, particularly at
the High School level. Through collaboration with the Town we were able to
address these staffing needs with additional professional faculty at the High School,
satisfying, in part, NEASC accreditation findings and recommendations regarding
High School staffing.




                                         220
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



FY16 budget recommendations will also look to ensure the allocation of sufficient
resources to sustain planned and strategized long term curriculum, technology
development and five year building and capital planning initiatives. As
Superintendent, I have had the opportunity to continue collaborations with
Marblehead department heads and residents with the Superintendent’s Safety and
Security Advisory Committee and the Superintendent’s Facilities and Maintenance
Advisory Committee. The FY16 budget will highlight our continued curriculum
alignment initiatives, including: multi-year curriculum alignment strategic planning;
rollout and implementation of the ELA K-12 curriculum and power standards and
associated curriculum, materials and professional development; Fine Arts and
Science curriculum alignment; and the adoption of an aligned 9-12 grade
mathematics textbook series from Algebra through Calculus. This High School
math adoption will unite the work of the K-8 curriculum and program adoption to
streamline updated mathematics curriculum across the district from Kindergarten
through 12th grade.

Staffing
The FY16 budget process will develop analysis of FTE (full time equivalent)
staffing allocations specific to building and special subject areas aligning with
internal initiatives as well as the High School NEASC review findings. While we
assess current and future staff needs in regard to academic programs, we will also
look to enrollment data which early indicators point to a continued FY16 need of
the added FY15 FTE count at the High School. Enrollment at the elementary grade
levels predicts a relatively flat trend and we anticipate most of our buildings to be
level in force for faculty and support staff. A priority in new staffing to be addressed
in the FY16 budget will be an Assistant Principal at the Marblehead Veterans
Middle School. This addition to the building administration team will facilitate the
many leadership initiatives at the building level including curriculum rollout,
professional development, assessment and testing and Educator Evaluation
responsibility.

Budgetary Staffing/Employee Assumptions for FY16 include:
    Contractual increases across all units/step and grade increases




                                         221
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


       Existing FY12-FY15 contracts provides for0 .5% increase across all union
        contracts on 8/31/15 in FY16
            o Grade/Lane changes to be projected by 3/31/15 (per Unit A
                 contract)
       Contract negotiations for FY16 year one of new union contracts – terms to
        be determined
       Town continues to pay insurance costs associated with School employees
        with the exception of the Food Services Department employees and those
        School employee salaries funded through grant or special revolving funds
       Support Veteran’s School Administration
            o Add Assistant Principal to Veterans Middle School Administration
                 model FY16
       Support curriculum initiatives
            o Sustained Professional Development

Curriculum, Instruction and Assessment
The School FY16 budget will continue to support systematic curriculum
development and program evaluation to ensure that students are receiving excellent
instruction and coherent high-quality curriculum in every subject area. New math
programs across all grade levels continue to roll out and are supported with
materials, publisher professional development and staff ‘liaisons’ for internal
training and professional development. The High School in FY16 will implement its
full new aligned curriculum in conjunction with a new textbook and peripheral
accompanying technology component from the 9-12th grade level, including
Algebra, Geometry, Algebra 2, Pre-Calculus and Calculus across all levels.

The Assistant Superintendent of Curriculum, Instruction and Assessment, along
with the ELA district- wide faculty committee will roll out its updated ELA
curriculum, along with programmatic, supply and material and professional
development needs. Science, Social Sciences and Fine Arts will be in the
curriculum review and development phase in FY16 with committee and consulting
collaborative work accomplished aligning with the Assistant Superintendent’s
multi-year curriculum review and revision plan. Teaching and learning standards
and initiatives are strategized and aligned with the Common Core and the
Massachusetts Curriculum Frameworks. FY16 funding will be available, as level




                                      222
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


funding in the central curriculum budget, to implement improvements
recommended in the program evaluations. Consideration and assessment will also
be given to development of alternative measures of achievement where appropriate.
The ELL program will need continued funding for additional staff and program
initiatives to address the dramatic uptick in the English Language Learners (ELL)
enrollment. Funding will also continue to provide for assessment initiatives
including the expansion of the AIMSweb and Galileo assessment tools,
implementation of MKEA (Massachusetts Kindergarten Entry Assessment), and
study and revision of existing report card models. Lastly, funding will support the
development and implementation of District Determined Measures and associated
initiatives. These curriculum and assessment goals are initiated from the district
level and bridge to the building budget level and will be achieved with level funding
sourced from both the central administrative expense budget as well as the building
curriculum budgets when appropriate.

Technology
The FY16 School budget will partially fund year three of the Technology Director’s
five year plan. Fiscal 16 will seek to increase staffing by one instructional
technology specialist, as well as continue to maintain the previous increase in FTE
for the Central Registrar position. Additionally the technology budget will fund a
continued summer intern program where possible. Infrastructure priorities include
upgrade internet speed, completion of Village WiFi network, and partial upgrade of
existing Village network and expansion of High School WiFi. Equipment priorities
aligning with year three of the technology plan are district wide PC replacement,
projector replacement and smart board projector replacement which will be funded
by priority, as possible. Technology operations will continue to fund renewals and
licenses as necessary and purchase supplies, repairs and upgrades were possible.
School Administration is very appreciative of the supplemental funding received
from private donation for specific technology needs and will continue to seek
alternative funding sources where possible to implement our ongoing technology
long term plan and needs.

Utilities
The School FY16 budget level funds an increase in Water and Sewer expenses for
FY15 across all buildings based on five year historical underfunding. The budget




                                        223
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


seeks to appropriately fund standard assessed usage without going over the Water
and Sewer budget as a whole. Energy costs at new Glover School have grown with
the addition of educational technology and updated HVAC and air quality systems.
The School Department will again benefit from the Town Energy Reserve program
which will fund expenses in electric, gas and heating costs after level- funded
school utilities budget lines are exhausted at the Town/School agreed operational
energy budget threshold.

Facilities
FY16 Administrative goals for School facilities continue to prioritize and address
needs identified through the Superintendent’s Facilities Maintenance Advisory
Committee (SFMAC) and to continue to assess, strategize and fund current and long
term planning needs regarding Town and School buildings, facilities and grounds.

On site building audits have been conducted across 2013-2015 by the SFMAC,
composed of members from construction, planning, engineering and other
backgrounds, as well as additional areas of expertise aligning with our Schools
facility goals. A five year capital facilities plan has been initiated based on
prioritized findings of the SFMAC. The advisory committee holds ongoing
meetings to update the plan as funding sources become firm. Budgetary allocations
aligning with School facility initiatives will be in consideration of these Facilities
Advisory Committee collaborations and its recommended strategic plan outcomes
and priorities.

We are appreciative of collaboration with the Town for the second year as a part of
the multi-departmental Capital Outlay funding and have requested our highest
priority facilities funding needs inclusive of HVAC, electrical, roofing, flooring and
security needs. This Town outlay funding has allowed us to level fund our
maintenance budget in FY16 to address standard annual building maintenance, as
well as historical prioritized deficiencies where appropriate.
In fiscal 2016, the School Department will also continue our collaboration and
communication with Massachusetts School Building Authority to evaluate our need
for a new elementary school facility for the Gerry/Coffin district by submitting our
updated ‘Statement of Interest’ for the project.




                                        224
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Grant and Revenue Sources
Based on year- to- date indicators including our own Marblehead State of the Town
presentation overview as well as State and Federal FY16 budget planning
communications, we are anticipating approximately level revenue from both State
and Federal Grants for fiscal 2016 with the potential for a slight downtick trend in
funding.

Special Education tuition in/out and subsequent special education transportation
needs are unpredictable and are directly proportionate to those students coming into
district receiving Marblehead Public Schools special education services and those
Marblehead residents placed in out- of- district programs. Every effort is made to
balance our expense needs within the Student Services department with level
funding operationally and self-sustaining supplemental funding from tuition-in
students attending Marblehead special education programming from outside public
districts.

Marblehead Public Schools continues to collaborate and benefit from the
industrious work and generosity of local community and private grant partnerships.
Through these grant awards we will be able to complement our general budget
appropriation with funding toward our overall student success- driven goals
including; technology, curriculum, enrichment and fine arts initiatives.

Cost Savings and Operational Efficiencies
While priority is given to funding for staffing and expenses aligning with prioritized
programming, it is important to understand our efforts for operational cost savings
and the expense offsets of grants and special funds revenue. Our Administration has
implemented significant recent and ongoing initiatives in cost savings which
directly and proportionately boosts funding for instructional and staffing goals. We
are working to continually run internal audit and procedural reviews to identify
efficiencies in all areas of operations, work flow and spending.

Our continued initiatives for FY16 in this area include:
     Re-aligning central supply budget as we continue to update operational
        workflow procedures and hardcopy communications electronically
        whenever possible




                                        225
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


       Careful monitoring and assessment of fuel and energy, and adoption of
        group, cooperative and fixed rates where applicable
       Application of special revenue funds for applicable operational and staffing
        charges as agreed to by the Finance Department and consistent with School
        Committee policies regarding school department revolving and tuition
        funds
       Projection of funding from grants, state aid and reimbursements , including
        special education Circuit Breaker
       Identify new sources of grant monies at both the Federal and State level
       Identifying general opportunities for savings through ongoing audit of
        current budget. Potential costs savings includes bulk supply orders, annual
        maintenance contracts as preventative rather than reactive expenses and
        identifying duplication of efforts or duties at the operational level
       Adhering to best practices and legal guidelines in procurement and
        utilizing vendors from State Bid List, where appropriate, to assure lowest
        cost to district
       Identifying and implementing operational efficiencies including cross-
        training, procedural documentation, ‘ticket’ database for technology and
        facilities, all intended to minimize the outsourcing of service.

The School Administration looks forward to working closely with School
Committee, Finance Committee, Town officials and Marblehead residents and
community during this budget process. Discussions, questions, and suggestions are
always welcome. Thank you for your continued interest, support and input as we
continue to finalize and vet our district- wide FY16 School budget to present to
Town Meeting.

Respectfully Submitted,
Maryann Perry
Superintendent of Schools

                  MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE

The Marblehead School Committee’s three primary responsibilities are the hiring
and supervision of the Superintendent of Schools, the approval and oversight of the




                                       226
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Marblehead Public School district’s budget, and the creation and oversight of school
policy. Working closely with Superintendent Maryann Perry, the School Committee
strives to balance the needs of individual students, schools, and programs with the
overall direction and priorities of the district, all within the town’s financial means.

The School Committee works in partnership with the Town, including the
Marblehead civic community, parents, students, teachers and school administration
to make the best educational decisions that effectively serve all students.

This year’s report to the Town confirms the continuation of the School Committee
support for a coherent school system based on accountability in order to improve
and sustain high academic student performances. To this end, the School Committee
supports Superintendent Perry’s goals for district improvement:

        Develop and implement an aligned curriculum, instruction and assessment
         that enables each student to be engaged in a challenging curriculum that is
         grounded in clearly defined standards

        Develop a new comprehensive Marblehead Public Schools Master Plan for
         facilities, based on enrollment projections, facility needs, and financial
         analysis

        Promote effective classroom instruction, practices, and alignment with
         district goals

        Develop a multi-year Strategic Plan for the Marblehead Public School
         district that includes a unifying mission, vision, key strategic initiatives and
         key performance indicator goals.

The following list highlights changes that have been achieved in the Marblehead
Public Schools:

    1.   A multi-year cyclic curriculum review and revision plan which began in
         2012-13, is being led by Dr. Brad Smith, our new Assistant Superintendent
         of Curriculum, Instruction and Assessment; since last year (FY14), new
         math curriculum, textbooks and materials have been in use in K-8
         classrooms; aligned English Language Arts (K-8) and High School math
         curricula are planned for implementation in 2015-16; Science, Social
         Studies, Fine Arts, Health/Wellness/Physical Education and grade 9-12




                                         227
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


         electives are currently being reviewed, developed and aligned with the
         Common Core and Massachusetts Curriculum Framework State Standards.

    2.   The creation of nine professional development half days has provided the
         time for teachers to work together on curriculum.

    3.   Marblehead Public School students will participate in the first PARCC
         (Partnership for Assessment of Readiness for College and Careers) testing
         in 2015. (PARCC test is aligned with the Common Core State Standards.)

    4.   Marblehead High School (MHS) received its ten-year accreditation from
         the New England Association of Schools and Colleges (NEASC) in
         December 2014. Changes at MHS include: increasing the requirements for
         graduation from 110 credits to 120 credits; requiring four years of science
         and four years of math (phased in); state-required 990 hours of instruction
         of students has been achieved; MHS now meets the state requirements for
         physical education; additional courses have been added at MHS, utilizing
         five new staff positions. The School Committee, working with district
         leadership, will continue to seek to remedy the areas needing attention
         identified in the accreditation report.

    5.   The Marblehead School Committee implemented the state- designed and
         required Superintendent Evaluation process for the first time last year.

    6.   The Marblehead School Committee has undertaken a systematic review of
         its policies.

    7.   A new Marblehead Public School District Mission Statement was
         collaboratively developed under the leadership of Superintendent Perry
         with input from parents, teachers, staff, administrators, students,
         community members, and School Committee:

         Our Mission is to foster in our students a passion for learning, and to
         provide a safe nurturing environment in which they can develop the values,
         knowledge and skills needed to achieve full potential in their personal,
         social and work lives, and to become contributing members of society.

The School Committee is committed to continuing the successful transition of our
second-year superintendent into the district. Working with the Massachusetts
Association of School Committees, the Committee continues to develop practices




                                       228
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


that support a collaborative, productive working environment that creates retention
of top talent in our district by fostering a culture of learning, teamwork, trust and
respect within our school community, while continuing to advance our goals for the
district’s students.

The School Committee’s budget deliberation is based on the needs of the district
while meeting current contractual obligations, in the context of the Town’s budget
assumptions. (At the time of this writing, contract negotiations are ongoing.)
Priorities for FY16 include Marblehead High School (addressing accreditation
needs), Technology, new Assistant Principal position for the Veteran’s Middle
School, and ongoing Curriculum renewal.

The School Committee continues to address its building facility deficiencies
through diligent maintenance and carefully planned capital projects, including the
following initiatives currently underway or hopeful of being addressed in the future:

THE NEW GLOVER SCHOOL:
The new Glover School opened in February 2014 with a formal ceremony in March
2014. We thank the generous taxpayers of Marblehead for making this project
possible.

GERRY SCHOOL:
This facility, now 109 years old, continues to show significant signs of aging and
deterioration. The School Department has remained a responsible steward for this
school in anticipation of the inevitable time when the School Committee and
community will examine the options for the Gerry School. The School Committee
supported submission of a Statement of Interest to the Massachusetts Building
Authority, which is the first step in the process to determine the future of the Gerry
School.

EVELETH SCHOOL:
The Eveleth School currently houses Marblehead High School’s special education
program for students age 18-22 years. The Eveleth will be retained by the school
department as possible temporary space for the Gerry School students, should a
facilities emergency occur at the Gerry until the future of the Gerry is determined.

The Marblehead School Committee appreciates the generosity of this wonderful
community and its many parent groups, community members and local businesses
who give of their volunteer time and financial support to our schools. Community-
driven and supported organizations such as the Friends of Marblehead Public




                                        229
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Schools Friends of the Performing Arts, Boosters, Magic Hat, Dollars for Scholars,
PTOs, and the Marblehead All Sports Foundation continue to provide significant
financial support for innovative education and extra-curricular programming
through grants and fund-raising efforts on behalf of our students, schools and its
facilities.

Respectfully Submitted,
Kathleen E. Leonardson, School Committee Chairman

             MARBLEHEAD PUBLIC SCHOOLS PERSONNEL
                      ADMINISTRATION

Name                                Position                         Telephone
Maryann Perry             Superintendent of Schools                  639-3140
Amanda Maniaci            Asst. to the Superintendent for Finance    639-3140
Kerry O’Shaughnessy       Asst. to the Superintendent for HR         639-3140
Carmen Darisse            Supt. Administrative Assistant             639-3140
Bradford Smith            Asst. Superintendent of Curriculum,        639-3140
                          Instruction & Assessment
Robert Bellucci           Director of Student Services and           639-3140
                          Program Accountability
Martha Krol               Student Services Liaison                   639-3140
Kara Heintz               Student Services Administrative Asst.      639-3140
Margarita Perlin          Lead Nurse                                 639-3174
Adam Katz                 Special Education Chairperson              639-3110
Nora McCarron             Special Education Chairperson              639-3159
Nicole Grazado            Special Education Chairperson              639-3126
Jennifer Finnegan         Special Education Chairperson              639-3190
Susan Gibbons             Pre-School Coordinator                     639-3190
Mike Musto                Business Manager                           639-3140
Mary Valle                Bookkeeper                                 639-3140
Kathy Gallagher           Accounts Payable Secretary                 639-3140
Diane Crean               Administrative Asst. for Payroll           639-3140
Richard Kelleher          Food Services Director                     639-3163
Ken Lord                  Exec. Dir. Of Technology                   639-3140
                          & Operations
Kathy Comeau              Technology Director                        639-3120
Richard Matthews          Director of Facilities                     639-3120
Tammy Jones               District Office Secretary                  639-3140
Katie Farrell             Database Specialist                        639-3140




                                       230
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Tracey Corbett          Central Registrar                    639-3140
Layne Millington        High School Principal                639-3100
Margot Ivers            Principal’s Secretary                639-3100
Lynsey Page             HS Asst. Principal                   639-3100
Michele Carlson         HS Asst. Principal                   639-3100
Emily Lucas             HS Front office Secretary            639-3100
Amy Ciccone             Registrar/Student Activities         639-3100
Matthew Fox             Veterans Middle School Principal     639-3120
Donna Carey             Principal’s Secretary                639-3120
Theresa McGuinness      Village School Principal             639-3159
Maryann McKie           Principal’s Secretary                639-3159
Brian Ota               Village School Assistant Principal   639-3159
Donna Zaeske            Bell School Principal                639-3170
Gayle Louisos           Principal’s Secretary                639-3170
Sean Satterfield        Coffin/Gerry Schools Principal       639-3180
Linda Mills             Principal’s Secretary                639-3180
Mary Devlin             Glover School Principal              639-3190
Barbara Hawlena         Principal’s Secretary                639-3190
Mark Tarmey             Athletic Director                    639-3100
Patricia Magee          Athletic Dept. Secretary             639-3100
Francois Fils-Aime      METCO Director                       639-3120


              FACULTY AND STAFF 2014-2015
Name                        Position 14-15
Acciaioli, Cassandra        Chemistry
Adams, Diana                Custodian
Addis, David                Tutor
Agostini-Sheridan, Susan    Grade 3
Allen, Cynthia              Teacher: TIDES
Alling, Matthew             Foreign Language-Latin
Amirault, Christina         Teacher: TIDES
Amoroso, Kim                Tutor
Anderson, Lauren            Para
Anderson, Martha            Bus Monitor
Anderson, Martha            Cafeteria/Bus Monitor
Andrews, Lisa               Para
Angelopolus ,Adam           Grade 6
Antonucci, Deborah          Teacher: Language Based
Arbo, John                  Para




                                     231
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Arnold, Sarah                Tutor
Arnould, Carol               Tutor
Athanas, Jennifer            Math Specialist
Austraw, Jeffrey             Tutor
Babbitt, Diane               Grade 1
Bach, Janet                  Sped Integrated
Bailey, Marguerite           Cafeteria
Baker, Katelyn               Psychologist
Balboni, Robert              Custodian
Barker, David                English/Social Studies
Barrell, Maribeth            Sped Resource Room
Barrett, Melissa             Tutor
Barry, Judith                Cafeteria
Barthelmes, Jacqueline       Tutor
Bartlett, Paul               Custodian
Beaulieu, Judith             Art
Beechwood, Justin            Teacher: TIDES
Behl, Melissa                ELL Teacher
Beitz, Christine             Para
Belli, Natalie               Language Arts/Social Studies
Berg, Robin                  Kindergarten, Supported
Bergeron, Kerry              Grade 2
Bergeron, Leroy              Custodian
Berggren, Susan              Secretary, Sped
Berish, Jill                 Para
Bernhardt, Terri             Psychologist
Bial, Lisa                   Tutor
Billings, Jennifer           English
Bishop, Kathleen             Para
Bishop, Kathleen             Tutor
Blanchard, Gianna            Grade 2
Blodgett, Amanda             Gr 6 Math/Science
Blotcher, Sarah              Para
Bontaites, Anne              Para
Bornstein, Rosalie           Tutor
Bouchard, Jacqueline         Tutor
Bowden, Catherine            Para
Bowen, Adam                  Grade 3
Bowen, Virginia              Tutor
Brand, Rebecca               K-3 Reading Specialist




                                232
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Branham, Rachel             Art Teacher
Breed, Mary                 Phys Ed
Brenner, Nicole             Teacher: Language Based
Broughton, Alison           Para
Bruett, Meghann             Grade 3
Buckley, Jennifer           Psychologist
Buono, Anna                 English
Buonopane, Susan            Teacher: Inclusion
Burke, Lindsay              Grade 5
Bushey, Alicia              Teacher: PACE
Bushman, Molly              Tutor
Butters, Bryan              Social Studies
Calef, Robert               Custodian
Callaghan, Tawny            Science Grade 7
Callahan, James             Physics
Carlson, Charlotte          Para
Carlucci, Coby              Social Studies
Carroll, Linda              Para
Carter, Annaka              Tutor
Carucci, Allison            Teacher: Resource Room
Castoldi, Catherine         Teacher: 9th Inclusion
Cecere, Michael             Phys Ed
Cefalo, Carla               Health
Chalek, Wendy               Tutor
Chalifour, Edythe           Cafeteria
Chavez, Jennifer            Latin
Chaykowski, Christine       Guidance Counselor
Christensen, Henry          Tech Ed
Clark, Kristel              ABA Tutor: PACE
Clark, Mary                 Para
Clark, Lora                 Grade 4
Clinton, Michael            Tutor
Clough, Patrice             English
Clough, Linda               Para
Cohen, Carolyn              Para
Colby, Stephanie            Library Media Specialist
Coleman, Julie              Para
Colfer, Robert              Social Studies
Comeau, Ronald              Maintenance
Compton, Alison             Speech & Language Pathologist




                               233
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Conley, Karen               Grade 3
Cool, Susan                 Tutor
Coombs, Jaimie              Health
Corcoran, Angela            COTA
Costonis, Christina         Grade 5
Cowan, Judith               Tutor
Cox, Rachael,               Para
Coyle, Deborah              Tutor
Croke, Deborah              ABA Home Tutor
Crosby, Rosemary            Nurse
Crowley, Kathleen           PE/Health/Wellness
Crowley, Brian              Social Studies
Cruickshank, Kerrie         Para
Csizmesia, Jade             Para
Cullen, Deborah             Nurse
Cummings, Cortney           Teacher
DaCunha, Tanya              Para
D'Amour, Eileen             Music
Dana, Gregory               Math
Darci, Maureen              Kindergarten
Dartley Rocco, Maura        Wellness
Davidson, Lindsay           Kindergarten
Davidson, Gail              Cafeteria
Davies, Meredith            Tutor
Davis-Allan, Ann            Teacher: Inclusion
Dawes, Elizabeth            Teacher: 11th Inclusion
Dawes, Edmund               Science/Engineering
DeBerardinis, Debora        PT Assistant
Decker, Jessica             PreK/Elem Behavior Specialist
DeGeorge, Valerie           Grade 5
Deiana, Dawna               Teacher: Inclusion
Delano, Judith              Para
DeMello, Joseph             Math
Denis, Margaret             Cafeteria
Deprez, Jennifer            Speech & Language Pathologist
Derosa, Kristina            Tutor
Devlin, Kristyn             Cafeteria
Dewing, Diane               Cafeteria
Dewing, James               Custodian, Asst. Head
Dexter, Lesley              Tutor




                               234
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


DiGiammarino, Jennifer      Tutor
Dillon, Robert              English
DiPersio, Brianne           World Language Grade 6
Dixon, Lelia                Grade 4
Doane, Marilyn              Para
Doben, Maggie               Grade 2
Dodge, Elizabeth            Tutor
Doherty, Alice              Para
Donadio, Lauren             Nurse
Donaldson, Lindsay          Social Studies
Doughman, Cathy             Para
Douglass, James             Custodian
Drummond, Ellen             Grade 1
Duffy, Amy                  Grade 2
Dumais, Brenda              Para
Dupuis, Jacquelyn           English
Dusenbury, Brooke           Guidance Counselor
Dutch, Wayne                Math
Eaton, Allison              Guidance Counselor
Economou, Amanda            Para
Edwards, Kathleen           Tech Ed/Family Consumer
Elliott, Jennifer           Secretary Lower Bell
Elmer, Kara                 Guidance Counselor
Elterich, Kristen           Psychologist
Ericsson, Thomas            Science, Biology
Erikson, Melissa            Grade 3
Erskine, Kimberly           PT
Fairbanks, Lee-Anne         Grade 1
Fallon, Lois                Secretary
Fargo, Eric                 Phys Ed
Feins, Robin                English
Femia, Leah                 Para
Ferrante, Heidi             Para
Ferrante, Heidi             Tutor
Ferris, Linda               Para
Ferris, Kathryn             Band
Fidler, Grace               Tutor
Fishman, Lindsay            Grade 4
Fitzgerald, Cheryl          Cafeteria Van Driver
Foley, Karin                Para




                               235
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Forcier, Ryan                  Physics
Ford, Laurie                   Transitional Services Specialist
Fortis, Carmen                 Bus Driver
Forward, Maura                 Grade 4
Fowler, Monica                 Tutor
Francois, Mary                 Foreign Language-French
Frankel, Dara,                 Tutor
Fraser, Holly                  Music
Frawley, Patricia              Teacher
Frein, Casey                   Grade 3
Friedrich, Jennifer            Chemistry
Frigon, Katie                  Music
Fu, Michael                    Math
Futcher, Edward                Math
Galanxhi, Tatiana              Cafeteria
Garrett, Karen                 Tutor
Garry, Benjamin                Language Based
Gaskell, Marian                Tutor
Gauthier, Allan                Guidance Counselor
Gay, Betsy                     Kindergarten
Gazda, Ann                     PT
Geary, Catherine               Para
Geary, Joan                    Science
Geraghty, Anne                 Speech Language Assistant
Gerow, Penny                   Cafeteria Helper
Giardi, Michael                Math
Gilbert, Gail                  Tutor
Gilbert, Rebecca               Teacher
Gillis, William                Custodian
Gilson, Maeve                  Speech Language
Glabicky, Michael              Para
Goedkoop, Kristin              Para
Goodwin, Lenore                Voice Program Coordinator
Gora, Diane                    Grade 1
Gould, Nicholas                Theatre Arts
Graff, Stephanie               Tutor
Grazado, Heather               Computer Support Specialist
Graziano, Angela               Grade 2
Greeley, Elizabeth             Cafeteria
Greenberg, Mindi               Spanish




                                  236
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Greenwood, Justin           Language Based
Grohe, Kristen              Tutor
Grose, Kathryn              Spanish
Guider, F.                  Math
Gunter, Cassandra           METCO Bus Monitor/Clerical
Guthartz, Randy             Art
Guttadauro, Jae             Foreign Language-Spanish
Hajj, Maia                  Library Media Specialist
Haley, Karen                Tutor
Halvorsen, Alice            Grade 6
Hamilton, Anne              Para
Harney, Jane                Academic Skills
Harris, Mark                Custodian
Hart, Mary Ellen            Title I Teacher
Hartel, Francis             Latin
Haskell, William            Custodian
Hastings, Rebecca           Para
Hauptman, Molly             Art
Hecht, Elizabeth            Kindergarten
Heenan, Brian               Science, Biology
Heller, Jonathan            Grade 6
Herchenhahn, Mary           Art, Elementary
Herendeen, Cara             Grade 1
Herrick, Cheryl             Teacher: 9th/10th Grade Inclusion
Hertz, Amy                  Tutor
Higgins, Thomas             English
Hingston, Joanne            Para
Hobbie-Welch, Lauren        Academic Skills Gr 6
Hobson, Alexandra           Grade 5
Holbrook, Susan             Teacher: Resource Room
Homan, Kathryn              Grade 3
Honos, Christina            Tutor
Hood, Hannah                Inclusion
Huang, Allison              Math
Hudson, Elizabeth           Teacher: Language Based
Hughes, Ann                 Para
Hughes, Ann                 Tutor
Huller White, Shirley       Art, Visual Arts
Humphrey, Melissa           Social Studies
Hunt, Claire                Tutor




                               237
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Hyde-Bradford, Nicole       Tutor
Jablonski, Andrew           Para
Jackman, Erik               Tutor
Jackson, Heather            Para
Jackson, Jacklyn            Cafeteria
Jalbert, Jean               Custodian, Head
James, Amie                 Phys Ed
Janock, Heidi               Grade 2
Johnson, Beth               Grade 2
Johnson, Suzanne            AP Chemistry
Johnson, Carol              Social Worker
Johnston, Elisa             Teacher: Inclusion
Jones, Bethan               English
Jones-Tentindo, Marylyn     Para
Kaeyer, Jill                Tutor
Kaltsas, Eleni              Cafeteria
Kane, Mary                  Academic Skills
Kannally, Timothy           Grade 4
Karns, Brigitte             Grade 8
Kass, Debra                 COTA
Keating, James              Tutor & Astronomy teacher
Kelleher, Matthew           Custodian
Kennedy, Jamie              Guidance Counselor
Killeen, Caron              Tutor
King, Richard               Custodian, Flex
Kingsbury, Christina        Tutor
Klipper, Samantha           Para
Knight, Katherine           Para
Knight, Emily               ELL Teacher
Kobus, Deidre               Para
Kodiattu, Carolyn           Grade 2
Kolsky, Robert              Custodian
Konz, Peter                 ABA Tutor
Koscielecki, Karen          Cafeteria Helper
Kuszmar, Linda              School Secretary
Lacaillade, Amanda          Tutor
Lamby, Juanita              Guidance Counselor
Land, Howard                Bus Driver
Landergan, Catherine        Tech Ed
Landry, Holly               ABA Tutor




                               238
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Landry, Elizabeth             Teacher
Langton, Gretchen             Computer Support Specialist
Lavender, Michael             Phys Ed
Lavoie, Scott                 Custodian
Lavoie, Susan                 Tutor
Lawton, Peter                 Custodian
Leahy, Patricia               Secretary, Sped
Leavitt, Rachel               Supported Grade 1
LeBlanc, JoAnne               Secretary
LeBlanc, Michaela             Para
LeBlanc, Mary                 Grade 6
Lees, Rachel                  Tutor
LeFleur, Sandra               Pre-K
Legro, Phillip                Custodian
Lehman, Karen                 Photography
Lemieux, Jody                 Tutor
Lemieux, Robert               Custodian
Levine, Mary Anne             Grade 1 Supported
Liebman, Ashlee               Teacher: PACE
Lloyd, Andrea                 Cashier
Long, Amber                   Spanish
Long, Glenn                   Custodian, Head
Lovely, Laura                 Grade 7
Luise, Judy                   Adjustment Counselor
Lutwak, Elizabeth             Library Media Specialist
Lydon, Maria                  Para
Lyons, Judith                 Para
Maag, Tracy                   Permanent Substitute
MacDonald, Alyssa             Math Teacher
MacDonald, Melissa            Tutor
Mace, Richard                 Custodian
Mace, Jayne                   Para
Mack, Gail                    Teacher: Inclusion
Magana, Elmer                 Spanish
Maney, Martha                 Para
Marco, Pamela                 Psychologist
Marcorelle, Rachel            Para Grade 2
Marino, Kathleen              Tutor
Markham, Sabrina              Para
Marks, Lindsay                Social Studies




                                 239
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Matuza, Sarah              Grade 7 Math
McCabe, Sarah              Psychologist
McCarthy, Laura            Grade 2
McCarthy, David            Tutor
McDonald, Keri             Para
McGrath, Danielle          Phys Ed
McGuinnes, Melissa         Grade 1
McGurrin, Susan            Tutor
McIntosh, John             Phys Ed
McKeever, Charles          Custodian, Head
McMahon, Maura             Grade 3
McMahon, Deanna            Nurse
McMahon, Julie             Grade 6 Language Arts
McNamara, Meghan           ABA Tutor
McWilliams, Laurence       Tutor
Mello, Rena                Teacher: Inclusion
Mellor, Margaret           Para
Mellor, Margaret           Tutor
Menzler, Abida             Para
Merrill, Melissa           Tutor
Michaud, Maria             Para
Michaud, Tammi             Para
Miles, Mary                Grade 6
Miles, Karen               Speech Language
Miller, Loren              Math
Miller, Jennifer           Nurse
Miller, Joan               Teacher: Inclusion
Millett, Michael           Technology Support Specialist
Minigiello, MaryBeth       Para
Mitchell, Steven           Custodian, Head
Mohler, Janet              Library/Media Specialist
Moloney, Neil              English
Montevecchi, Emmanuael     Tutor
Moore, Kathleen            Grade 3
Moore, Kandis              Para
Morneau, Albert            Maintenance
Moss, Maria                Grade 3
Mugnano, Jodi              Tutor
Mullarkey, Tracie          Para
Murphy, Mindy              Para




                              240
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Murphy, Lisa                  Grade 5 Language Arts
Murphy, Amanda                Guidance Counselor
Murphy, Philip                Phys Ed
Murray, Dawn                  Nurse
Musto, Carla                  Para
Nally, Tara                   Nurse
Nash, Laura                   Grade 7, English
Neilson, Paula                Kindergarten
Nesbitt, Tracy                Tutor
Nestor, Kimberly              ABA Tutor
Neumann, Carol                Tutor
Newsome, Jeffrey              Guidance Counselor
Nigro, Lauren                 Special Education
Nohelty, Tammy                Art
Norley, Ashley                Para
November, Donna               Grade 3
O'Connor, Michelle            Tutor
O'Flynn, Judith               Grade 1
O'Neill, Andrew               Athletic Director Substitute
Orlen, Iris                   Tutor
Orlen, Gerald                 Tutor
Pagano, Justin                Computer Support Specialist
Page, Carolan                 Tutor
Paige, Jaclyn                 Para
Parsons, Julie                Orchestra Teacher
Pasackow, Noah                Social Studies Grade 7
Pasquini, Monika              Spanish
Payne, John                   Marine Technology
Pazymino, Marcos              Technology
Perez, Lynne                  Spanish
Perkins, Ryan                 Para
Perlow, Sheryl                Tutor
Perron, Gillian               ABA Tutor
Perroni, Brenda               Kindergarten
Phillips, Raymond             Custodian
Picariello, Karen             Tutor
Pierce, Karen                 Sped Integ
Pillsbury, Susan              Speech Language
Pittore, Patrica              Grade 2
Pivnick, Ashley               Para




                                 241
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Poisson, Frances               School Secretary
Poulos, Mackenzie              Behavior Specialist
Prew, Christopher              Para
Price, Dawn                    Para
Price, Sarah                   Teacher: Inclusion
Prodanas, Amy                  Tutor
Promise, Allison               Para
Pruett, Elizabeth              Grade 4
Pugh, Annie                    Grade 5
Queval, Pascale                Art
Quigley, Suzanne               Tutor
Quillen, Lisa                  Grade 1
Quinn, Janet                   Tutor
Racki, James                   Custodian, Head
Raimer, Jennifer               Grade 6 Math/Science
Raimo, Paulette                Tutor
Rand, Nicholas                 Social Studies Grade 8
Razin, Cheryl                  Para
Reardon, Meredith              Guidance Counselor
Reno, Annalisa                 Tutor
Restaino, Gina                 Behavior Specialist
Reynolds, Katherine            Science, Grade 8
Richards, James                Custodian, Head
Rieckelman, Dana               ELL Teacher
Riley, Amanda                  Grade 6 Inclusion
Ritchie, Daniel                Social Studies
Rochford, Paige                OT
Rodgers, Kathryn               Biology
Roeser, Kathleen               Tutor
Rombach, Jeannie               Tutor
Roncarati, Jenna               Biology
Rosenstein, Alex               Psychologist
Ross, William                  Custodian/Van Driver
Ross, Killeen                  Grade 4
Rothenberg, Suzanne            ABA Tutor
Roy, Joyce                     Grade 4
Rudloff, James                 Teacher: TLC
Rumson, Janet                  Grade 5
Russell, Robin                 Para
Russett, Kristen               Foreign Language-French




                                  242
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Ryan, Connor                 English
Rydzewski, Kenneth           Teacher: 12th Inclusion
Sarnevitz, Shari             Nurse
Schaffnit, James             Grade 7
Schauer, Rachel              Tutor
Schauffele, Alexandra        Speech Language
Scoglio, Andrew              Voice/Choir
Seapy, Chelsea               Music
Seiden, Gloria               Cafeteria Helper
Serino, Kristina             Math/Science
Shapiro, Mary                Grade 1
Shatford, Susan              Para
Shatford, Susan              Tutor
Shay, James                  Custodian, Head
Sheppard, Aimee              Grade 2
Sheridan, Peter              Shop, Carpentry
Sherris, Laura               Secretary, Sped
Shevory, Sally               Grade 3
Sholds, Kristinia            English
Shull, Willard               Grade 7
Simard, Christine            Cafeteria/Van Monitor
Simard, Christine            Bus Monitor
Simone, Francesca            Music
Skalaban, Janice             Business
Slattery, Margaret           Sped Secretary
Slattery-Sumner, Marjorie    Cafeteria
Sliney, Candice              Spanish
Smith, Nancy                 Grade 3
Smith, Katelyn               Teacher: Elementary SAILS
Smith, Kathryn               Grade 8
Smith, Rene                  Teacher: Language Based
Smullin, Rachel              Math
Snizek, Nicole               Behavior Specialist
Soder, Lauren                Teacher: Inclusion
Soghomonian, Allison         Library Media Specialist
Song, Kendra                 Physics/Robotics
Spear, Susan                 Tutor
Spillane, Carol              Kindergarten
Spinale, David               Custodian/Van Driver
St. George, Cyndi            Para




                                243
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Stanojev, Beth              Nurse
Stanton, Jessica            Para
Steadman, Joanne            Phys Ed
Stelljes, Lia               Grade 8 Science
Stickney, Shelby            Para
Stienstra, Alexandra        Grade 5
Stoddard, Joseph            Music
Stone, Ethan                Custodian
Stone, Kerry                ABA Tutor
Stonecipher, Timothy        Guidance Counselor
Strangie, LouAnn            Teacher: 10th Inclusion
Stronach, Tara              Teacher: TIDES
Sugarman, Lisa              Para
Sullivan, Jane              Grade 5
Sumner, Louis               Cafeteria Helper
Sumner, Gregory             Custodian
Surette, Ann                ABA Tutor
Tangney, Matthew            Social Studies
Tatterson, Lisa             Biology
Teague, Caitlin             Para
Teague, Leslie              Para
Tefera, Meseret             Para
Tejada, Lynne               Cafeteria
Thomas, Barbara             Kindergarten
Thompson, Sarah             Tutor
Thorne, Nancy               Tutor
Thornton, Susan             Teacher: Academic Skills
Tirelli, Robert             Music
Todd, Caroline              English Grade 8
Trainor, Stephanie          Grade 6
Traynor, Veronica           Para
Treff, Maria                Tutor
Trudeau, Dana               Grade 5
Tully, Frances              Grade 1
Valkevich, Mary             Para
Van Wittenberghe, Denise    Psychologist
Vautour, Jennifer           Guidance Counselor
Venezia, Stephen            Social Studies
Voiland, Meredith           Grade 4
Volpe, Stephen              Grade 5




                               244
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


Vona, Mark                  Math
Wachtel, Kyle               Phys Ed
Wahtera, Philo              Grade 2
Wales, Susan                Teacher: VITALS
Wales, G. Herrick           Teacher: Supported Class
Walsh, Thomas               Assistant Teacher: TLC
Walsh, Krystal              Para
Wandrei, Emily              ELL
Warren, Randi               Para
Weagle, Catherine           Para
Webb, Rebecca               Math
Webster, Leigh              ABA Tutor
Weiss, Laura                Pre-K
Welenc, Devin               Tutor
Welsh, Caitlin              Grade 4
West, Andrea                Foreign Language-French
Whipple, Nancy              Cafeteria Helper
Whitaker, Christina         Para
Whitaker, Jane              Custodian
White, Chelsea              Permanent Substitute
Whitman, Wendy              Para
Whittier, Dawn              Para
Wilkens, John               Social Studies
Willard, Lindsay            Grade 3
Williams, Jillian           Teacher: TLC
Williams, Pamela            Teacher: Language Based
Wilson, Janice              Secretary, Guidance
Wilson, Kari-Ann            Tutor
Winship, Scott              Band
Wolff-Variam, Cheryl        Tutor
Wolfson, Fara               Teacher: Academic Skills
Wood, Enid                  Cafeteria
Worrick, Ann                Tutor
Xiarhos, Kristin            Teacher: Supported K
Yanow, Brooke               Kindergarten
Yomtov, Jamie               Speech & Language
Zalanowski, David           Physics
Zeiner, Kelly               Para
Zimmer, Wendy               Speech & Language
Zolot, Jill                 Tutor




                               245
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                        2014 MCAS SUMMARY
                         Longitudinal Summary
             (percentage of students at each performance level)


                          Grade 3 System Wide

Reading/ELA               2010      2011      2012       2013     2014
Advanced                   22        20         24         21      17
Proficient                 55        57         55         58      59
Needs Improvement          20        18         18         19      21
Warning/Failing             3         5         3          2       2
Mathematics               2010      2011      2012       2013     2014
Advanced                   37        18         38         42      44
Proficient                 42        56         39         33      38
Needs Improvement          15        19         17         20      15
Warning/Failing             6         7         5          5       3




                                   246
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014




                           Grade 4

English/Lang.       2010     2011    2012   2013   2014
Arts
Advanced             19       12      12     14     19
Proficient           48       55      55     51     44
Needs                29       26      25     27     29
Improvement
Warning/Failing      4         7      8      8      9
Mathematics         2010     2011    2012   2013   2014
Advanced             11       13      14     27     32
Proficient           38       35      38     35     34
Needs                46       43      37     32     29
Improvement
Warning/Failing      6         9      11     6      5




                           247
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014

                               Grade 5

English/Lang. Arts      2010    2011     2012   2013   2014
Advanced                 29      40       29     39     33
Proficient               52      46       47     43     50
Needs Improvement        18      11       19     12     13
Warning/Failing          2       3         5     6       5
Mathematics             2010    2011     2012   2013   2014
Advanced                 31      36       38     41     49
Proficient               41      45       31     34     35
Needs Improvement        22      12       17     16     11
Warning/Failing          6       8        14     9       6
Science & Tech.         2010    2011     2012   2013   2014
Advanced                 25      20       31     40     39
Proficient               46      51       38     35     39
Needs Improvement        25      25       26     20     17
Warning/Failing          3       4         5     4       5




                                  248
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014




                              Grade 6

English/Lang. Arts     2010     2011    2012    2013   2014
Advanced                21       29      30      23     24
Proficient              64       57      54      57     56
Needs Improvement       13       12      12      13     16
Warning/Failing         3         1      4       8      4
Mathematics            2010     2011    2012    2013   2014
Advanced                39       46      43      33     44
Proficient              35       33      37      40     27
Needs Improvement       20       14      13      15     18
Warning/Failing         6         7      7       12     11




                              Grade 7

English/Lang. Arts     2010      2011   2012    2013   2014
Advanced                22        18     29      28     24
Proficient              71        74     60      63     63
Needs Improvement        6        6      10      7      8
Warning/Failing          1        2      1       2      4
Mathematics            2010      2011   2012    2013   2014
Advanced                22        23     30      27     27
Proficient              54        43     46      46     41
Needs Improvement       16        28     18      20     21
Warning/Failing          8        7      6       8      11




                               249
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014




                             Grade 8
Eng/Language Arts     2010       2011   2012   2013   2014
Advanced               42         46     25     36     27
Proficient             50         48     69     57     68
Needs Improvement      7           5     5      5      2
Failing                1           1     2      2      2
Mathematics           2010       2011   2012   2013   2014
Advanced               47         53     34     34     24
Proficient             30         25     40     43     40
Needs Improvement      17         15     19     15     29
Warning/Failing        7           7     7      8      7
Science/Technology    2010       2011   2012   2013   2014
Advanced               15         18     14     8      10
Proficient             51         55     56     57     62
Needs Improvement      29         23     24     32     25
Warning/Failing        5           4     6      3      4




                              250
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014




                                     Grade 10

Eng/Language Arts        2010           2011      2012      2013       2014
Advanced                  50             44           57     68         63
Proficient                43             52           42     28         34
Needs Improvement          6              3           0      4          2
Warning/Failing            0              1           1      1          1
Mathematics              2010           2011      2012      2013       2014
Advanced                  77             70           73     68         70
Proficient                13             24           21     24         19
Needs Improvement          8              4           4      7          7
Warning/Failing            2              2           2      2          4
Science& Technology      2010           2011      2012      2013       2014
Advanced                  43             34           49     44         49
Proficient                42             55           38     43         39
Needs Improvement         13             10           12     11         9
Warning/Failing            1              1           1      1          2




                    Scholastic Aptitude Test Scores (SAT)
                          Marblehead SAT Scores
                          Critical
             Year                            Math           Writing
                          Reading
             2010            558              571                551
             2011            550              557                550
             2012            558              578                565
             2013            558              578                565
             2014              557              571              560




                                        251
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                          AP Examinations
         YEAR             2010   2011     2012         2013     2014
# of Students              152    184      194          181      238
                           257    319      321          319      481
Total Grades reported
# of Subjects              15        15       17        12       14
% Earning 3 or higher     91%       83%      86%       86%      84%


                 National Merit Scholarship Program
    Class of 2015 1 Semi-Finalist and 13 Commended Scholars
    Class of 2014 1 Semi-Finalist and 14 Commended Scholars
    Class of 2013 2 Scholarship recipients and 6 Commended Scholars


                        Advanced Placement Awards
        Class of 2014        27 AP Scholar Awards
                             15 AP Scholar with Honors Awards
                             37 AP Scholar with Distinction Awards
                              6 AP National Scholar

        Class of 2013        25 AP Scholar Awards
                             10 AP Scholar with Honors Awards
                             19 AP Scholar with Distinction Awards
                              3 AP National Scholar

        Class of 2012        20 AP Scholar Awards
                             14 AP Scholar with Honors Awards
                             17 AP Scholar with Distinction Awards
                              5 AP National Scholar

             Post Secondary Report for the Class of 2014
               Size of Class:                         260
               Percentage continuing education        95%
                  Attending 4 year Colleges           87%
                  Attending 2 year Colleges            7%
                  Post Grad or Technical School        1%
                  Military                             3%
              Percentage going into employment         2%




                                252
              MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


                         Class of 2014
                Valedictorian: Jason Harry Frost
                Salutatorian: Jacob Austin Beck

      Molly Jane Ackerman
      Phoebe Lynn Addis
      Mariano Alcantara Ozuna
+     Ryan Diana Alexander
      Benjamin McBride Anderson
      Anthony Vincent Asaiante
      Ali Hassan Atallah
      Jessica Ann Attridge
      Olivia Rose Babine
      Brandon Joseph Bacchiocchi
      McKenna Ann Barrett
      Emma Lillian Barry
      Miles Alexander Barry
      Mathew David Battcock
*++   Jacob Austin Beck
      Kareem Anthony Beckles
      Sydney Taylor Belostock
+     Courtney Alexander Bergeron
      Jessica Anne Beringer
*++   Allison Kylie Bisegna
+     Trey Robert Blackmer
      Ryan Christopher Blaney
      David Ottavio Bolognese, Jr.
++    Théo Campbell Bonner
      Nicholas Boog
+     Abigail Dolores Bostley
+    Kerry Ann Breen
      Hannah Miriam Bromberg
      Rory Murphy Brown
++    Teresa Caterina Bruno
+    Camilla Roberts Buba
      David Michael Burdick
      Gavin Asher Burke
      Anastasia Holly Cahill
      Ryan Michael Caliri
+     Trevor James Campbell




                               253
               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


       Sophia Grace Capalbo
*++    Nicholas George Carr
++     John David Cavolina
+      Sydney Lorraine Cayen
+      Haoyang Chen
++     Jordan Isaac Chmara
+      Adrienne Elizabeth Ciccone
*++    Alexander Thomas Keith Conn
+      Christopher William Cormier
+      Matthew Francis Countie
*++    Noelle Sierra Cox
       Matthew Michael Crawford
*++    Dylan Thomas Cressy
       Mary Elizabeth Cuffe
+     Lily Gabrielle Cummings
+      Brian William Kelly Daly
+      Jenya Halle Damsky
+      Margaret Wagley Danforth
+     Rebecca Kim Davis-Allan
      Elizangela Patricía Casimiro DeCarvalho
       Maximilian Anthony Delvento
       Drew Adams Dixey
       Cameron Charles Doyle-Elwell
*++    Lauren Alicia Drooks
       Katelyn Marie Dykens
+      Rowan Reid Easterbrooks
       Jacob Davis Easterlind
*++    Jamie Alexandra Ehrlich
*++    Paul Richard Elder
       Dean Robert Fader
       Steven Maughan Farragher
*++    Paige Catherine Ferrucci
       Aedan Orion Finn
+      Mary Eliza Fitzgerald
       Emilie Valeria Flores
       Olivia June Foley
       Holly Ann Ford
*♫++   Davis Dylan Franklin
      Shayna Ann Fratini
*++    Emily Anne Freedland




                                254
              MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


       Meghan Elisabeth Friel
*++    Jason Harry Frost
       Trevor Carson Gelineau
*++    Kelsey Anne Gienieczko
*++    Amanda Rachel Gilberg
+      Jeremy Brian Gillis
       Liam Robert Gillis
+      Jessica Gindelsky
++     Alexander McKerrow Cowley Glass
*♫++   Zacharias Francis Moses Grader
*♫++   Ellie Regina Granese
*+     Eliot Bixby Gregory
       Liam Robert Griffin
+      Brett Adam Grossman
+      Benjamin Guinsburg
*♫++   Cole Maxwell Guyre
       Anne Nicole Hackney
+      Alexa Jane Hamelburg
       Nikolas Fredrik Hancke
+      Hannah Elizabeth Harper
       Liam Michael Harvey
*++    Caroline Elizabeth Helmes
♫      David Gwyn William Higgins
       Ryan Lekstrom Himes
       Shannon Grace Hoey
*++   Camille Paige Homa
+      Caroline Jane Hooper
       Ryan Michael Horrigan
+      Justin Timothy Hurley
*++    Sasha Martine Israel
*++    Benjamin James Jackson
*♫++   Graham Paige Jackson
♫+     Elizabeth Kim Jancsy
+      Matthew Harrison Jepsky
*++   Megan Grace Jezewski
+     Jonathan David Johnston
+      Michael Lester Katzen
       Denis Sergeyevich Kazakov
*++    Madeleine Sun Mi Kim
       Bradford James Knittle




                              255
              MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


       Abigail Avery Knowlton
+      Thomas Holbrook Koopman
*++    Sara Jules Krypel
+      Emily Anne LaChance
++    Rachel Marie Larson
*+    Mary Norton Lavoie-Mayer
+      Peirce Merrill Hitchcock Law
       Emmett Charles Leahy
*++    Sydney Le Lannic
       Abigail Danielle LeBlanc
       Michaela Callahan LeBlanc
+     Mary Kathleen Legget
       Elizabeth Ann Leykin
       Danielle Salomi Likterov
       Lawrence Joseph Littler IV
*+     Mackenzie Alexis Tower Loewen
       Charles Christian Maney
++     Isabel Marie Marcey
++     Jacob Douglas Marsden
+     Mia Joan Martelli
*++    Angelo Massaro
       Jacob Arthur-Phillip Matthews
*++    Kyle Berry Maulden
       Crandall Barrett Maxwell
+      Kaitlin Ann McCarthy
*♫++   Suzanne Julia McCarthy
       Tyler Scott McDonough
       Anna Elizabeth McElroy
       Benjamin Robert McGrath
+      Ronan Bissell McGuire
*++    Ian James McIver
+      Rachel Reve McKay
+      Alan Leo McKinnon III
       Hannah Nicole McLaughlin
*++    Koby Aaron Michaels
       Matthew McGrath Millett
       Maia Marcus Minelli
+      David Christopher Monahan
+      Cecelia Keely Moran
+      Charlotte Anne Moriarty




                              256
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


♫+      Alea Rose Moscone
        Michaela Alexis Moulaison
+       Jennifer Nyemba Mulombe
        Evan Andrew Myers
+       Justin Samuel Myerson
++      Sophie Kimball Naughton
        Alexander Grant Ness
        Eli Benjamin Neuman-Hammond
*+      Brian Pothier Neumann
        Savannah Ngoc Nguyen
        Vivian Ngoc Nguyen
*♫++   Lauren Rachel Nohelty
        MacGregor James O'Callaghan
       Emma Lindsay Oliver
        Nichole Marie Olivo
*++     Alexandra Helen Ostrowski Schilling
        Ross Edward Pavlovich
*++     Elizabeth Marie Payne
+       Alexis Miranda Peña
        Ainsley Joyce Taylor Pennock
*+     Grace Virginia Perry
        Taylor Leigh Pierce
        Mia Eugenia Plympton
+       Irina Alexandra Polunina
+       Jamie Elizabeth Ponsetto
*++     Henry Christopher Poulin
        Erik Ryan Powers
        Liam Thomas Quinlan
*++     Rashel Freyda Rabinovich
*++     Andrew Briggs Raisner
        Janaya Kaylee Randall
        Alexander Graham Reiniger
*++     Matthew Tucker Rickards
*++     Emily Anne Ricker
*++     Sofia Lena Rietti
+       Reed Pitchford Riley
        Geoffrey Gabriel Rivera
        Steven Sidney Roark
+       Amy Elizabeth Roberto
*++    Lily Victoria Roberts




                                 257
               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


+      Margaret Mary Rockett
*++    William Maley Rockwell
*++    Christopher Walker Rodts
      Baie-Yin Ze Rogers
       Kirstin Amelita Rohde
       Dania Eileen Rojas
       Camila Alana Rosario
*++    Daniel Collins Rosenberg
*++   Conrad Ernest Rousseau IV
       Kylie Rose Russo
+      Matthew Dean Scholnick
      Jennifer Lauren Shatford
       Madison O’Neil Shea
++     Colby Nairne Shepard
       Michael Xavier Simmons
       Pavlo Sinkevych
*♫+    Adelaide Elizabeth Sleeman
*♫++   Adler Gruskin Smith
       Elizabeth Louise Smith
*++    Shanna Nicole Smith
++     Sara Adams Snadecki
       Brett Michael Souza
       Joshua Matthew Stein
*♫++   Katherine Anne Stolerman
       Jonathan Bryce Suydam
       Sean Michael Sweeney, Jr.
       Mia Casale Sweeney
       Jeremy Alexander Swiniuch
       Misa Grace Takata
*♫++   Julia Murphy Taliesin
       Spencer James Tarbox
++    Abigail McKean Thomas
+      Charles Auburn Thompson
*++    Monica Lillian Thorne
       Nora Comfort Tirrell
*++    Renee Lynne Torrie
       Liza Rose Tosi
      Mosheh Ezekiyel Tucker
       Peter Alling Tully
*+    Johanna Marie Twaalfhoven




                               258
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014


            Kaya Ulcay
*++         Anna Victoria Valuev
*++         Madeleine Clare Van Dussen
            Caroline Reed Vannah
*♫++        Anna Lisa VanRemoortel
            Roberta Mata Veitas
+           Olivia Joelle Vener
            Hannah Marie Verrette
            Maiya Destinee Vidal
+           Noelle Villa
+           Adam Charles Wanstall
            Riley Daniel Waters
            Graham Levering Wheeler
            Lucas Francis White
+           Daniel Justin Whitehill
            Samuel John Whitmore
++          Christopher Clarke Wigglesworth
            Samuel Peter Wilkens
            Keri Jeanne-Michelle Wilson
+           Samuel Mack York
            Harrison Michael Young
+           Alice Frances Yufa

                          * National Honor Society Member
                        National Art Honor Society Member
                       ♫ Tri-M Music Honor Society Member
        ++ High Honor Graduate: 3.8 Cumulative Grade Point Average or better
                                    (7 semesters)
     + Honor Graduate: 3.4 Cumulative Grade Point Average or better (7 semesters)
                 NOTE: List of graduates and awards subject to change




                                      259
      School    Pre   K      1     2     3     4     5     6     7     8     9    10    11     12   Totals
                 K
      Bell            76    71    93    78                                                           318

      Coffin                      90    82                                                           172

      Gerry           68    78                                                                       146

      Glover    58    65    73    91    87                                                           374




260
      Eveleth                                                                                         0

      Village                                 231   225   245                                        701

      Middle                                                    248   266                            514
                                                                                                             October 1, 2014 Enrollments




      High                                                                  253   267   269   241   1030
                                                                                                                                           MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014




      Total     58    209   222   274   247   231   225   245   248   266   253   267   269   241   3255
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014




                  10/1/10   10/1/11   10/1/2012   10/1/2013   10/1/2014
PreSchool           40        36         37          50          58

Elementary         1032      994         1000       986         952

Village School     714       687         727        693         701

Middle School      475       511         505        516         514

High School        972       955         996        1053        1030

Total              3233      3183        3265       3298        3255



                 Five-Year Enrollment Summary




                                   261
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
County of Essex, ss
to Any Constable in the Town of Marblehead
Greeting:

You are hereby required and directed in the name of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts to warn and give notice to the inhabitants of Marblehead, qualified to
vote in elections and in town affairs, to meet at the Marblehead Veterans Middle
School Auditorium, Duncan Sleigh Square, 217 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA,
on Monday, the fourth day of May next A. D. 2015 (it being the first Monday in
May) at 7:00 o’clock in the afternoon to act on the following articles in the Warrant
for said meeting as follows:

Article 1 Articles in Numerical Order
To see if the Town will vote to adopt an order requiring articles in the Warrant to be
taken up in their numerical order, or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by
the Board of Selectmen.

Article 2 Reports of Town Officers and Committees
To receive the report of the Town Accountant, the reports of the Town Officers, and
special Committees, or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen.

Article 3 Assume Liability
To see if the Town will assume liability in the manner provided by Section 29 of
Chapter 91 of the General Laws, for all damages that may be incurred by work to be
performed by the Massachusetts Highway Department for the improvement,
development, maintenance and protection of tidal and non-tidal rivers and streams,
harbors, tidewaters, foreshores and shores along a public beach in accordance with
Section 11 of Chapter 91 of the General Laws and authorize the Selectmen to
execute and deliver a bond of indemnity therefor to the Commonwealth, or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 4 Accept Trust Property
To see if the Town will vote to accept certain trust property, gifts or grants to be
administered by the Town or modify the terms thereof, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by Town Counsel.




                                        262
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



Article 5 Lease Town Property
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to let or
lease such land, buildings or structures owned by the Town on such terms as they
may determine, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen.

Article 6 Unpaid Accounts
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of
money to provide for the payment of any unpaid accounts brought forward from
previous years, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Director.

Article 7 Revolving Funds
To see if the Town will vote to authorize various revolving funds as required by
M.G.L. c 44 s.53E ½, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 8 Non-Resident Student Tuition
To see if the Town will vote to accept the provision of Massachusetts General Law
Chapter 71, Section 71F; all monies received by the school committee as tuition
payments for nonresident students and as state reimbursements for students who are
foster care children shall be deposited with the treasurer of the town or city and held
as separate accounts.       The receipts held in such a separate account may be
expended by said school committee without further appropriation for expenses
incurred in providing education for such nonresident students or for such students
who are foster care children, notwithstanding the provisions of section fifty-three of
chapter forty-four, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
School Committee.

Article 9 Walls and Fences
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for the
construction and reconstruction of walls and fences for the protection of highways
and property, including engineering services in connection therewith; to authorize
the appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or
otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefor; to determine whether this
appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.




                                         263
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



Article 10 Ocean Avenue Sidewalk, Seawall and Rip Rap Repair
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Selectmen for repairing and/or replacing the sidewalk, seawall and rip rap
on Ocean Avenue adjacent to the land located at 231 Ocean Avenue, including
engineering and legal costs, construction, permitting and all other activities and
costs necessary to carry out the work; and determine whether this appropriation
shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 11 Ocean Avenue Easement Acquisition for Sidewalk, Seawall and Rip
Rap Repair
To see if the Town will vote to purchase, acquire or take by eminent domain an
easement or other interest in the land described below, and to raise and appropriate
a sum of money, either by appropriation, borrowing or otherwise, to fund said
purchase or taking, along with all legal costs and costs of settlement in connection
with the repair and construction of the sidewalk, seawall and rip rap located on
Ocean Avenue adjacent to such land as follows: Identified in Assessor’s records for
the Town of Marblehead, Massachusetts, as Map 902, Lot 1A and in particular as
more fully set forth on the plan by Hayes Engineering and dated March 31, 2014
entitled “Plan of Land #231 Ocean Avenue, Assessor’s Parcel 902-1A Marblehead,
Mass” on record in the Town Clerk’s Office; or take any action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen

Article 12 Fort Sewall Improvements
To see if the town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the renovation and
repairs to Fort Sewall and to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by
borrowing or otherwise or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 13 Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
To see if the Town will raise and appropriate any sums of money for the purchase of
equipment for the several departments of the Town, to authorize the Board of
Selectmen to trade old equipment as part of the purchase price and to determine
whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise, or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Committee.

Article 14 Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for
remodeling, reconstructing and making extraordinary repairs to existing Town or
School buildings and the purchase of necessary equipment including computer




                                        264
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



hardware and software to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by
borrowing or otherwise, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 15 Water Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction, reconstruction and extending of
water mains, replacement of water meters, appurtenances, engineering, consultants,
surveys including revenue studies and other general Water Department purposes,
and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by
purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements necessary, or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 16 Sewer Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction or reconstruction of sewers for
sanitary purposes and for sewerage disposal, pump stations, original pumping
equipment, metering equipment, safety equipment, replacement of said equipment,
engineering, consultants, surveys, including revenue studies and other general
Sewer Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or
easements necessary, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 17 Storm Drainage Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the construction,
reconstruction and maintenance of storm sewers for surface drainage purposes, and
to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain
or otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefor, and to raise the money for
such purposes by the issue of bonds or notes or in any other manner, or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 18 Water and Sewer Commission Claims
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the
Board of Selectmen acting jointly to compromise any claims for damages or suits
pending against the Town of Marblehead on account of acts which may have
occurred during the construction of the water, sewer and storm water system, or




                                       265
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 19 Collective Bargaining (IUE/CWE –Local 1776)
To see if the Town will, pursuant to G.L. c. 150E §7, vote to appropriate the sums
of money sufficient to fund the collective bargaining agreement for fiscal year 2016
with Local 1776 of the IUE/CWE, or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by
the Board of Selectmen.

Article 20 Collective Bargaining (Fire)
To see if the Town will, pursuant to G.L. c. 150E §7, vote to appropriate the sums
of money sufficient to fund the collective bargaining agreement for fiscal year 2016
with the International Association of Firefighters AFL/CIO CLC Local 2043, or
take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 21 Collective Bargaining (Police)
To see if the Town will, pursuant to G.L. c. 150E §7, vote to appropriate the sums
of money sufficient to fund the collective bargaining agreement for fiscal year 2016
with Town of Marblehead Police Officers Union, or take any action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 22 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Administrative)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Administrative Pay Schedule; to strike out the pay schedule
as it relates to Administrative personnel, substitute in place thereof the new pay
schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of money to
make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 23 Proposed Pay Schedule and Reclassification (Traffic Supervisors)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Traffic Supervisors Pay Schedule; to waive the pay schedule
as it relates to Traffic Supervisor personnel, substitute in place thereof the new pay
schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of money to
make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.




                                        266
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



Article 24 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Seasonal and
Temporary Personnel)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Seasonal and Temporary Personnel Pay Schedules; strike out
the pay schedules as they relate to seasonal and temporary personnel, substitute in
place thereof the new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or
appropriate a sum of money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 25 Compensation - Town Officers
To see if the Town will vote to revise the compensation of the Town Clerk as the
Town by vote may determine and to transfer from available funds and/or
appropriate a sum of money to make said revision effective, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 26 Financial Assistance for Conservation
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Conservation Commission and other
proper officers of the Town to apply for financial assistance from public and private
sources to be expended by the Conservation Commission for the purchase of vacant
land and any other purpose, authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General
Laws as amended, or to reimburse the Town for sums of money expended for such
purposes, or both, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Conservation Commission.

Article 27 Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District
To see if the Town will vote to approve the gross operating and maintenance budget
of the Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District for the fiscal
year commencing July 1, 2015 and appropriate a sum of money for the Town’s
assessment of the same, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 28 Available Funds Appropriate to Reduce Tax Rate
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate free cash balance in the hands of the
Town Treasurer, including any surplus or part of surplus in the Electric Light
Department for use of the Assessors in making the tax rate, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Director.




                                        267
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



Article 29 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the necessary and
usual expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2015, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Department.

Article 30 Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the supplemental
expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning July
1, 2015, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Department.

Article 31 Landfill Regulatory Compliance Activities
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for continued water quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk
assessment, engineering, and any other services related to the old landfill; to
determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Health.

Article 32 Landfill Drainage Culvert Repair
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for repairing and/or replacing the existing 60-inch concrete
drainage culvert that crosses the landfill property, including investigations,
engineering, construction, and all other activities and costs necessary to carry out
the work; and determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or
otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Water and
Sewer Commission and the Board of Health.

Article 33 Landfill Closure Adjacent Property Clean Up
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for work necessary to remove, relocate, or dispose of solid waste in
areas beyond the limit of work in the current landfill closure project including
investigations, engineering, legal fees, construction, easements and/or property
acquisition, and all other activities and costs necessary to carry out the work; and
determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Health.




                                       268
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



Article 34 Work Associated with New Transfer Station Building
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for the permitting, public bidding, site work, utility work,
deconstruction of the old Transfer Station and construction of the new Transfer
Station, and all other activities and costs necessary to carry out the work; and
determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or
take any other action relative to. Sponsored by the Board of Health.

Article 35 Amend Zoning Bylaw - Article XII – Design Review
To see if the town will vote to amend the Town of Marblehead Zoning Bylaw as
follows:
Amend section 200-45 Design review paragraph B Design Review Board sub
paragraph (2) which currently reads:
     (2) A person appointed by the Planning Board qualified by training and
         experience in design for a two year term
To read instead as follows (bold text added)
     (2) Two persons appointed by the Planning Board qualified by training and
         experience in design each for a two year term
Or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Planning Board.

Article 36 Camille Terrace
To see if the Town will vote to accept as a public way under the provisions of MGL
Chapter 82, as amended, Camille Terrace as shown on a plan entitled “Street
Acceptance Plan Camille Terrace” Hayes Engineering of Wakefield MA dated
January 20, 2015 which is on file in office of the Town Clerk or pass any vote or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by Laura Tufts and others.

Article 37 Special Study Committee
To see if the town will vote to establish a Special Study Committee to consider the
feasibility of the Town adopting the Developmental Asset Framework, an approach
that provides teen-serving Town departments and community organizations with the
ability to align the diversity of services being provided to, or for the benefit of,
Marblehead teens to a common construct, the application of which has been
demonstrated by numerous communities to lead to material and measurable short-
and long-term: i) increase in positive teen development (such as increased
confidence, resiliency, leadership skills, academic achievement, physical health, and
feelings of well-being), and ii) decreases in negative behaviors and outcomes (such
as substance abuse, depression, thoughts of or attempts at suicide). The Special
Study Committee would provide a report of findings and proposals for further




                                        269
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



action to be considered at Town Meeting in 2016. Sponsored by Sally A. Schreiber-
Cohn, Gene Cornfield and others.

You are hereby further required and directed to notify and warn the Inhabitants of
the Town of Marblehead aforesaid who are qualified to vote in elections and in
Town affairs to subsequently meet at the several designated polling places in their
respective precincts in said Marblehead to wit:

In Precinct 1 - Polling Place –
OLD TOWN HOUSE
1 Market Square
In Precinct 2 - Polling Place –
MASONIC TEMPLE
62 Pleasant Street
In Precinct 3 - Polling Place –
MASONIC TEMPLE
62 Pleasant Street
In Precinct 4 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
10 Humphrey Street
In Precinct 5 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
10 Humphrey Street
In Precinct 6 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
10 Humphrey Street

on Tuesday, the 12th day of May next A.D. 2015 (it being the second Tuesday after
the first Monday in May) at 7 o’clock in the forenoon then and there to bring into
the precinct officers of their respective precincts their votes on one ballot for the
following-named Town Officers to wit:

5 Selectmen for 1 year
1 Moderator for 1 year
1 Assessor for 3 years
1 Cemetery Commissioner for 3 years
1 Board of Health for 3 years
1 Housing Authority for 5 years
2 Library Trustees for 3 years
1 Library Trustee for 1 year un-expired term




                                        270
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2014



2 Municipal Light Commissioners for 3 years
2 Planning Board for 3 years
5 Recreation and Park Commissioners for 1 year
1 School Committee for 3 years
1 Water & Sewer Commissioner for 3 years

For these purposes the polls will be open at each and all of said precincts at 7
o’clock in the forenoon and will be closed at 8 o’clock in the afternoon at each and
all of said precincts and you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested
copies thereof at Abbot Hall and ten (10) other conspicuous places in Town as
required by the Bylaws not later than thirty (30) days after being closed.

Hereof fail not and make due return of this Warrant or a certified copy thereof with
our doings thereon, to each of the several precinct wardens at the time and place of
meetings aforesaid and to the Town Clerk as soon as may be before the said
meetings.

Given under our hands at Marblehead aforesaid this 23rd day of February 2015.


____________________________________
JACKIE BELF-BECKER, Chair

____________________________________
HARRY C. CHRISTENSEN, JR.

____________________________________
JUDITH R. JACOBI

____________________________________
BRET T. MURRAY

____________________________________
JAMES E. NYE


Selectmen of Marblehead

A True Copy
Attest:                                   , Constable




                                       271
Departmental Information
      Emergency:
      FIRE                                              911
      POLICE                                            911

Town of Marblehead Official Website: www.marblehead.org

(Note: All phone numbers are 781 Area Code unless otherwise noted.)
Assessments                           Assessors                    631-0236
Birth, Marriage & Death Certificates Town Clerk                    631-0528
Board of Appeals (Zoning)             Engineering                  631-1529
Building Permits                      Building                     631-2220
Burial Permits                        Health Department            631-0212
Cemetery                              Cemetery                     631-1182
Collector of Taxes                    Finance                      631-0587
Council on Aging                      Council on Aging             631-6737
Elections                             Town Clerk                   631-0528
Finance Director                      Finance                      631-1705
Fire Prevention                       Fire Department              639-3428
Fuel Oil Storage                      Fire Department              639-3428
Harbormaster                          Harbormaster                 631-2386
Health                                Health Department            631-0212
Historical Commission                 Abbot Hall                   639-3425
Library                               Abbot Public Library         631-1480
Licenses – alcohol, common victualler
  entertainment, second hand          Selectmen’s Office           631-0000
Licenses – marriage, dog              Town Clerk                   631-0528
Plumbing Permits                      Building                     639-9151
Police Administration                 Police Dept.                 631-1212
Recreation                            Recreation & Park            631-3350
Schools:                              Administration               639-3140
                                      High School                  639-3100
                                      Veterans Middle School       639-3120
                                      Village School               639-3159
                                      Bell                         639-3171
                                      Coffin                       639-3181
                                      Gerry                        639-3186
                                      Glover                       639-3191
                                      Eveleth                      639-3196
Streets, Sidewalks                    Public Works                 631-1750
Town Administrator                    Selectmen’s Office           631-0000
Town Treasurer                        Finance                      631-1033
Trees                                 Tree Warden                  631-2721
Veterans’ Benefits                    Veterans’ Agent              631-0990
Water & Sewer                         Water & Sewer                631-2694
Weights & Measures                    Sealer                       631-0990
Wiring Permits                        Building                     639-9151
Zoning Enforcement                    Building                     631-2220

FEDERAL AND STATE SENATORS AND REPRESENTATIVES:
US Senators:                Elizabeth Warren 617-565-3170
                            Ed Markey        617-565-8519
US Representative (6th Dt.) Seth Moulton     978-531-1669
MA Representative (8th Dt.) Lori Ehrlich     617-722-2014
MA Senator (3rd Dt.):       Thomas M. McGee  617-722-1350
