        ANNUAL
     TOWN REPORT
    OF THE YEAR 2011



MARBLEHEAD, MASSACHUSETTS
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Board of Selectmen                                 3
Warrant for Annual Town Meeting                    5
May 2, 2011 and Annual
Town Election May 9, 2011
Results of Annual Town Meeting                     21
May 2, 2011
Results of Annual Town Election                    53
May 9, 2011
Warrant for Special Election                       58
June 14, 2011
Results for Special Election                       61
June 14, 2011
Officials Elected                                  64
Officials Appointed                                67
Vital Records of 2011 - # of births,               79
marriages, deaths
Department Reports:
Abbot Public Library                               80
Board of Assessors                                 84
Board of Health                                    86
Building Commissioner and Inspectional             98
Services
Cable TV Oversight Committee                      100
Cemetery Department                               101
Conservation Commission                           103
Council on Aging                                  105
Department of Public Works                        106
Engineering Department                            110
Financial Services                                111
Fire Department                                   112
Fort Sewall Oversight Committee                   129
Harbors and Waters                                130
Marblehead Cultural Council                       132
Marblehead Historical Commission                  135
Marblehead Housing Authority                      137
Metropolitan Area Planning Council                147
Municipal Light Department                        149
Old and Historic Districts Commission             157
Planning Board                                    159




                                         1
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Police Department                               162
Recreation, Parks & Forestry                    168
Sealer of Weights & Measures                    177
Shellfish Constables                            178
Task Force Against Discrimination               179
Tree Warden                                     181
Veterans’ Agent                                 182
Water and Sewer Commission                      184
Zoning Board of Appeals                         194
School Reports
Marblehead School Committee members             195
organization and meetings
Admission Requirements                          195
No School Announcement/School Hours             196
Superintendent of Schools                       196
Marblehead School Committee Report              200
Administration, Faculty and Staff               203
2011 MCAS Summary                               218
Scholastic Aptitude Test Scores (SAT)           223
5 year history
Marblehead High School Class of 2011            224
Enrollment Summaries                            228
Town Warrant – Annual Town Meeting              230
May 7, 2012




                                   2
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                        BOARD OF SELECTMEN

The Board of Selectmen is comprised of five members, each elected annually.
Members of the Board of Selectmen are Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair, Harry C.
Christensen, Jr., Judith R. Jacobi, Bret T. Murray and James E. Nye. Bret T. Murray
was elected in May. William L. Woodfin II and T. Michael Rockett served until
May. The Board meets on the second and fourth Wednesday of each month at 7:30
p.m. in the Selectmen’s Meeting Room in Abbot Hall and as needed at other times.
All meetings are open to the public.

In 2011 the Selectmen retained an architectural firm to develop a plan to make the
Old Town House accessible. This was done after the town was informed by the
Commonwealth that the Old Town House no longer complies with the Voters
Rights Act with respect to accessibility. The Selectmen sponsored an article on the
annual town meeting warrant to fund the construction of the plan. The article passed
at town meeting but failed to get the necessary votes on a proposition 2 ½ ballot
question.

Other projects undertaken in 2011 include the revetment repair on Ocean Ave, a
new fuel management system, monitoring system and fuel pump replacement at the
town garages located at Tower Way; the acceptance of a preservation master plan
for Old Burial Hill which was done with assistance from a grant from the
Massachusetts Historic Commission.

The Town also completed repairs on several town owned buildings under the Board
of Selectmen including, painting and roof replacement at the central fire station,
exterior painting of the Pickett House, re-shingling of 4 Cliff Street and with
funding from the Historical Commission additional work in Abbot Hall including
plastering and painting.

The town was required to prepare a re-precincting plan based on the 2010 federal
census. Under the guidelines the town was able to reduce the number of precincts
from seven to six. This plan was approved by the state and will take effect in 2012.

The Annual perambulation of town ways was held on May 14. The Marblehead
Conservancy coordinates this walk for the town with the intent of keeping the
public aware of these ways.




                                         3
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


As the local licensing authority, the selectmen renewed and/or issued the following
licenses concerning its licensed serving establishments:
Annual All Alcoholic: Restaurant (14), Club (3), Fraternal Club (3)
Annual All Alcoholic – Package Store (5)
Season All Alcoholic Club (3)
Annual Wine & Malt – Package (1), Annual Wine & Malt Restaurant (7 Day) (4)
Annual Common Victualler (38)
Annual Entertainment (15), Sunday Entertainment (13)
Second Hand Dealers (15), Automatic Amusement Device (14)
Annual Auto Class II (1), Annual Lodging (3)

Augustus T. Crocker donated, as a gift to the Town, a portrait of Uriel Crocker
(1796 – 1887) to be hung in Abbot Hall. Born in a house on Franklin Street, now
known as the Pickett House, Uriel Crocker donated the land at Crocker Park to the
Town.

The Board values the significant amounts of time volunteers throughout the Town
government and local philanthropic organizations devote working for the benefit of
Marblehead. In addition to thanking the volunteers the Board also thanks all of
those who contributed financially to the various funds established for the benefit of
the Town. Also the Board recognizes the efforts and dedication of our town
employees who work extraordinarily well together and truly make the town a
special place.

The Town received record snowfall in 2011. We wish to thank the Highway and
other departments with their outstanding snow removal efforts and the citizens of
the town for their cooperation.

The Board also thanks Anthony M. Sasso, Town Administrator; Rebecca Curran,
Town Planner; and the office staff Deborah Fadden, Kyle Wiley and Jane Tricomi,
for all their assistance this past year and extend our best wishes and thanks to all of
the citizens of the Town of Marblehead whom we faithfully and conscientiously
strive to represent.

Faithfully yours,
Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
Judith R. Jacobi
James E. Nye
Bret T. Murray




                                          4
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
County of Essex, ss
to Any Constable in the Town of Marblehead
Greeting:

You are hereby required and directed in the name of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts to warn and give notice to the inhabitants of Marblehead, qualified to
vote in elections and in town affairs, to meet at the Marblehead Veterans Middle
School Auditorium, Duncan Sleigh Square, 217 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA,
on Monday, the second day of May next A. D. 2011 (it being the first Monday in
May) at 7:45 o’clock in the afternoon to act on the following articles in the Warrant
for said meeting as follows:

Article 1 Articles in Numerical Order
To see if the Town will vote to adopt an order requiring articles in the Warrant to be
taken up in their numerical order, as requested by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 2 Reports of Town Officers and Committees
To receive the report of the Town Accountant, the reports of the Town Officers, and
special Committees and act thereon.

Article 3 Assume Liability
To see if the Town will assume liability in the manner provided by Section 29 of
Chapter 91 of the General Laws, for all damages that may be incurred by work to be
performed by the Massachusetts Highway Department for the improvement,
development, maintenance and protection of tidal and non tidal rivers and streams,
harbors, tidewaters, foreshores and shores along a public beach in accordance with
Section 11 of Chapter 91 of the General Laws and authorize the Selectmen to
execute and deliver a bond of indemnity therefore to the Commonwealth, or take
any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 4 Accept Trust Property
To see if the Town will vote to accept certain trust property, gifts or grants to be
administered by the Town or modify the terms thereof, or take any other action
relative thereto, as sponsored by Town Counsel.

Article 5 Lease Town Property
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to let or
lease such land, buildings or structures owned by the Town on such terms as they




                                          5
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


may determine, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board
of Selectmen.

Article 6 Unpaid Accounts
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum
of money to provide for the payment of any unpaid accounts brought forward from
previous years, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Director.

Article 7 Proposed Acceptance of Section 18 of MGL Chapter 32B
To see if the Town will vote to accept the provisions of Section 18 of Chapter 32B
of the Massachusetts General Laws. Sponsored by the Finance Director.

Article 8 Walls and Fences
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for the
construction and reconstruction of walls and fences for the protection of highways
and property, including engineering services in connection therewith; to authorize
the appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or
otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefor; to determine whether this
appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 9 Revolving Funds
To see if the Town will vote to authorize various revolving funds as required by M.G.L. c
44 s.53E ½, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen.

Article 10 Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
To see if the Town will raise and appropriate any sums of money for the purchase
of equipment for the several departments of the Town; to authorize the Board of
Selectmen to trade old equipment as part of the purchase price; to determine
whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Committee.

Article 11 Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for
remodeling, reconstructing and making extraordinary repairs to existing Town
buildings and the purchase of necessary equipment including computer hardware
and software to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing




                                           6
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen.

Article 12 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Administrative)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Administrative Pay Schedule; to strike out the pay schedule
as it relates to Administrative personnel, substitute in place thereof the following
new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of
money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 13 Pay Schedule and Reclassification (Traffic Supervisors)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Traffic Supervisors Pay Schedule; to waive the pay schedule
as it relates to Traffic Supervisor personnel, substitute in place thereof the following
new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of
money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 14 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Seasonal and
Temporary Personnel)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Seasonal and Temporary Personnel Pay Schedules; strike
out the pay schedules as they relate to seasonal and temporary personnel, substitute
in place thereof the following new pay schedules and to transfer from available
funds and/or appropriate a sum of money to make said new pay schedules effective,
or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 15 Compensation - Town Officers
To see if the Town will vote to revise the compensation of the Town Clerk as the
Town by vote may determine and to transfer from available funds and/or
appropriate a sum of money to make said revision effective or take any other action
relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 16 Water Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction, reconstruction and extending of




                                           7
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


water mains, replacement of water meters, appurtenances, engineering, consultants,
surveys including revenue studies and other general Water Department purposes,
and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by
purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements necessary to take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 17 Sewer Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction or reconstruction of sewers for
sanitary purposes and for sewerage disposal, pump stations, original pumping
equipment, metering equipment, safety equipment, replacement of said equipment,
engineering, consultants, surveys, including revenue studies and other general
Sewer Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or
easements necessary to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 18 Storm Drainage Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the construction or
reconstruction of sewers for surface drainage purposes, and to authorize the
appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise,
any land or easements necessary therefore, to determine whether this appropriation
shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 19 Water and Sewer Commission Claims
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the
Board of Selectmen acting jointly to compromise any claims for damages or suits
pending against the Town of Marblehead on account of acts which may have
occurred during the construction of the water, sewer and storm water system or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 20 Surface Drainage Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the construction or
reconstruction of storm sewers for surface drainage purposes, including engineering
services in connection therewith, and to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to
acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise, and land or easements necessary
therefor; to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or




                                         8
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


otherwise; or to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 21 Financial Assistance for Conservation
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Conservation Commission and other
proper officers of the Town to apply for financial assistance from public and private
sources to be expended by the Conservation Commission for the purchase of vacant
land and any other purpose, authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General
Laws as amended, or to reimburse the Town for sums of money expended for such
purposes, or both, and to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Conservation Commission.

Article 22 North Shore Regional Vocational School District
To see if the Town will vote to approve the gross operating and maintenance budget
of the North Shore Technical High School for the fiscal year commencing July 1,
2011 and appropriate a sum of money for the Town’s assessment of the same, or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 23 Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to pay the Town’s share
of the costs associated with the design, construction, and furnishing of the Essex
North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District’s new District High School
facility for the fiscal year commencing July 1, 2011; to determine whether this
appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 24 Available Funds appropriate to Reduce Tax Rate
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate free cash balance in the hands of the
Town Treasurer, including any surplus or part of surplus in the Electric Light
Department for use of the Assessors in making the tax rate or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Director.

Article 25 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the necessary and
usual expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2011, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Finance
Department.




                                         9
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Article 26 Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the supplemental
expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning July
1, 2011, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Finance
Department.

Article 27 Handicapped Parking
To see if the Town will vote to amend the By-Laws of the Town of Marblehead by
adding the following new Article to Chapter 119 thereof:

Article V:         Parking Spaces Reserved for Disabled Veterans or Handicapped
Persons
§ 119-5 Standing or Leaving of Vehicles Prohibited
The standing or leaving of vehicles unattended within parking spaces designated as
reserved for vehicles owned and operated by disabled veterans or handicapped
persons, including cross-hatch areas adjacent thereto, if any, is prohibited except
where such vehicle is owned or operated by a disabled veteran or handicapped
person or is transporting handicapped person(s), and only where such vehicle is
properly identified as such as specified in G.L. c. 40, § 21(23). Parking in such a
manner so as to obstruct a curb ramp designed for use by a handicapped person as a
means of egress to a street or public way shall also be prohibited. The foregoing
prohibition shall apply to all public and private ways and in all places where the
public has a right of access as invitees or licensees.

§ 119-6 Violations and Penalties
The penalty for violation of this Article V shall be not less than $100 nor more than
$300 per occurrence. The Board of Selectmen is further authorized to provide for
the removal of vehicles as may be required hereunder, in accordance with G.L. c.
40, § 22D, and the violator shall be liable for all charges incurred for the removal
and storage of such vehicle in addition to the foregoing penalty.

§ 119-7 Enforcement
Violations of this Article V may be processed pursuant to G.L. c. 40, § 21D, and
shall be in the amount set forth above. Enforcement under the noncriminal
disposition process shall be carried out by the Police Chief and /or by duly-sworn
police officers, who shall have full enforcement powers.

Or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Marblehead Disabilities
Commission.




                                         10
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Article 28 Old Town House
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to fund improvements
to the Old Town House, including but not limited to making the building
universally accessible; to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by
borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 29 Devereux Beach, Non Smoking Area
To see if the Town will declare the playground area of Devereux Beach as a no-
smoking area. Sponsored by Starr Campbell and others.

Article 30 Remove Position of Police Chief from Civil Service
To see if the Town will vote to petition the General Court to pass AN ACT
EXEMPTING THE POSITION OF POLICE CHIEF OF THE TOWNOF
MARBLEHEAD FROM THE PROVISIONS OF THE CIVIL SERVICE LAW

Section 1: The position of Police Chief in the Town of Marblehead shall be exempt
from the provisions of Chapter 31 of the General Laws and related regulations
applicable thereto.

Section 2: The provisions of Section 1 of this act shall not impair the civil service
status of the present incumbent Police Chief holding such status on the effective
date of this act.

Section 3: This act shall take effect upon its passage.

or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 31 Police Chief Selection Process
To see if the Town will vote to rescind Chapter 45, Article I, Section 45-1 of the
General Bylaws which now reads:
         The Board of Selectmen shall appoint the Chief of Police in accordance
         with the applicable provisions of the General Laws of the Commonwealth
         and amendments thereto and the applicable valid rules and regulations
         issued under said chapter and amendments thereto. Unless otherwise
         required by the applicable provisions of said chapter, amendments, rules
         and regulations, no member of the Board of Selectmen shall be eligible for
         appointment to such office.
and replace it with the following:




                                          11
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


45-1 Police Chief

        45-1-1 Appointment

                    45-1-1-1 Committee Composition
                    In the event there is an opening for the position of Police Chief,
                    the Board of Selectmen shall exercise its authority as the
                    Appointing Authority and appoint the Police Chief based upon
                    the recommendation of the Police Chief Screening Committee
                    (the “Committee”). Such Committee shall be comprised of seven
                    (7) members appointed by the Board of Selectmen and
                    representing the following municipal and/or community groups:

                    Town Administrator
                    School Department
                    Fire Department
                    Police Department
                    Council on Aging
                    Citizenry
                    Public Safety Professional

                    45-1-1-2 Recommendation
                                       Timeframe
                         The Committee shall advertise for the position of Police
                             Chief through any medium deemed appropriate by the
                             Committee, including but not limited to the Town’s
                             municipal website and at least one newspaper of wide
                             circulation throughout the Commonwealth.
                         Applicants shall have at least forty-five (45) days from
                             the date of initial publication to submit applications to
                             the Board of Selectmen.
                         At the close of the application period, the Board of
                             Selectmen shall provide the Committee with all
                             application response materials received.
                         Within ten (10) days following the close of the
                             application period, the Committee shall meet in
                             accordance with G.L. c. 30A, § 21 to review all
                             applications and determine by vote, the top 5 applicants.




                                          12
   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


       Within ten (10) days following the vote, the Committee
        shall interview the top five (5) applicants as determined
        by the Committee.
       Within ten (10) days of the completion of all interviews,
        the Committee shall determine the top three applicants
        and confirm with the Applicants that they are interested
        in moving forward in the selection process.
       The Committee shall thereafter submit forthwith a
        written recommendation to the Board of Selectmen
        indicating the top three (3) applicants.

45-1-1-3 Evaluation Criteria
The Recommendation Committee shall evaluate the applicants
using criteria including but not limited to the following:

        Character
        Education
        Prior Experience as a Police Officer
        Prior Experience as a Police Chief
        Prior Employment Record
        Recommendations (Personal and Professional)

45-1-1-4 Board of Selectmen Process
Within twenty-one (21) days of the receipt of the Committee’s
recommendation, the Board of Selectmen shall interview the
Candidates and conduct further review and investigation that the
Board deems necessary and appropriate.

45-1-1-5 Candidate Selection
The Board of Selectmen shall select a top candidate for the
position of Police Chief. Within ten (10) days of the Board’s
vote, the Chairman shall contact the top applicant and notify him
or her of the Board’s selection. The top applicant shall have
forty-eight (48) hours to accept the position of Police Chief,
subject to contract negotiations. Thereafter the Board of
Selectmen and the selected candidate shall enter into contract
negotiations and submit to any other applicable preliminary hiring
requirements. In the event the top applicant does not accept the
position of Police Chief within the forty-eight (48) hour
acceptance period, the Chairman of the Board of Selectmen shall




                      13
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                 contact the next ranked applicant and offer him or her the position
                 of Police Chief. In the event that all three (3) top applicants
                 refuse the position of Police Chief or the Board determines that
                 none of the applicants meet the needs of the community at that
                 time, then the Committee shall re-advertise for the position of
                 Police Chief and follow the process as noted in section 45-1-1-2
                 above.

                 45-1-1-6 Physical Examination
                 Prior to commencement of employment, the newly appointed
                 Police Chief must submit to a physical examination in accordance
                 with Section 106-1 of the Town’s General Bylaws

        45-1-2 Term
        The appointed Police Chief shall serve for three years subject to
        reappointment at the discretion of the Board of Selectmen.

        45-1-3 Duties
        The duties of the Police Chief shall be those established by the Board of
        Selectmen from time to time.

        45-1-4 Employment Contract
        The Board of Selectmen shall prepare an employment contract with the
        Police Chief covering the terms and conditions of the Chief's employment.

        45-1-5 Non-eligibility
        No member of the Board of Selectmen shall be eligible for appointment to
        the position of Police Chief.

        45-1-6 Applicability
        This by-law shall apply only to a Police Chief who is appointed
        subsequent to the time that the position of Police Chief is removed from
        Civil Service.

         45-1-7 Effective Date
         This by-law shall take effect if and when the General Court passes Special
         Legislation for the Town of Marblehead allowing the position of Police
         Chief to be exempted from the provision of Civil Service.
Or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.




                                        14
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Article 32 Old Landfill Remediation/ Construct New Solid Waste Facility
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for constructing a cap for the area(s) encompassing the old landfill
in accordance with and as required by applicable statutes and regulations,
deconstructing the old Transfer Station, constructing stormwater controls,
constructing and/or moving water and sewer mains, and constructing a new
Transfer Station, new Recycling Drop-Off Area, new Swap Shed, and new Yard
Waste Processing Area, and funding the purchase of all related real property
easements or other real property interests; to determine whether this appropriation
shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Health.

Article 33 Landfill Regulatory Compliance Activities
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for continued water quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk
assessment, and any other engineering services to determine the extent of clean up
or remediation necessary in connection with the old landfill; to determine whether
this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other
action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Health.

Article 34 Stony Brook Road Clean Up
Real Property Purchase and/or Taking
To see if the Town will vote to purchase, acquire or take by eminent domain, and to
raise and appropriate a sum of money, either by appropriation, borrowing or
otherwise, to fund said purchase or taking, along with all legal costs, costs of
remediation and costs of settlement in connection with the clean-up related to the
historic operations of the former landfill, the property and/or building(s) located at
the following:

        56 Stony Brook Road, and more particularly described in a deed found at
         Book 12823 Page 8 recorded at the Essex South Registry of Deeds
         containing 28,456 square feet +/-;

        A portion of 55 Stony Brook Road as more particularly described in a deed
         found at Book 11888 Page 451 and recorded in the Essex South Registry
         of Deeds that portion shown on a plan entitled “55 Stony Brook Road
         Taking or Acquisition Area” by Kleinfelder SEA and dated January 2011
         and which area contains 7,582 sq ft +/- which said plan is available in the
         Town Clerk’s office.




                                         15
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


        A temporary construction easement on a portion of 52 Stony Brook Road
         as more particularly described in a master deed found at Book 27351 Page
         3 that portion being shown on a plan entitled “52 Stony Brook Road Area
         of Remediation” by Kleinfelder SEA, dated January 2011 said area
         indicated as Area of Remediation which said plan is available in the Town
         Clerk’s office.

    Or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Health and the
    Board of Selectmen.

Article 35 Stony Brook Road Clean-up, Funding for Real Property Taking
and Remediation
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money, and to see
whether such sum shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise, to fund the purchase
or taking of the property and building(s), the remediation of the property and
building(s) and associated legal costs, located at 57 Stony Brook Road, and more
particularly described in a deed found at Book 22473 Page 485 recorded at the
Essex South Registry of Deeds containing 18,430 square feet +/-, which said
purchase or taking by eminent domain was approved in Article 23 of the 2010
Annual Town Meeting, as part of the clean-up related to the historic operations of
the former landfill, or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Health and the Board of Selectmen.

Article 36 Zoning Bylaw, Lot Width Requirement
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Marblehead Zoning Bylaw by changing
the minimum lot width requirement to apply within the Single Residence districts
only to that portion of a lot between the front lot line and the required front yard
setback, by changing the definition of Lot Width in Section 200-7, which presently
reads:

The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured perpendicular to
the mean direction of the side lot lines. At no point between the front lot line and
the rear lot line shall the lot be narrower than 75% of the required lot frontage. (See
§200-16E, Minimum lot width.)

To read instead:
The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured perpendicular to
the mean direction of the side lot lines. At no point between the front lot line and
the rear lot line shall the lot be narrower than 75% of the required lot frontage,
except that within the Single Residence districts, this limitations shall apply only




                                          16
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


between the front lot line and the minimum front yard setback (See §200-16E,
Minimum lot width)

And by changing Section 200-16(E), which presently reads:
Minimum lot width. The width of a lot shall not at any point be less than 75% of
the required lot frontage (for corner lots only the frontage opposite the rear lot line)
without having first obtained a special permit for use and dimension from the Board
of Appeals. (See the definition of “lot width” in § 200-7)

To read instead:
Minimum lot width. The width of a lot shall not at any point be less than 75% of
the required lot frontage (for corner lots only the frontage opposite the rear lot line)
without having first obtained a special permit for use and dimension from the Board
of Appeals, except that this limitation shall apply only between the front lot line and
the minimum front yard setback within the Single Residence districts. (See the
definition of “lot width” in § 200-7)

Or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by Andrew Colby and others.

Article 37 Zoning Bylaw, Lot Frontage Requirement
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Marblehead Zoning Bylaw by changing
the minimum lot frontage in the Single Residence districts from 100 feet to 75 feet
by amending the Single Residence row of Table 2, Dimensional Regulations, which
presently reads:

  Single        One family       10,000    100     20     15     15      (1)    35(6)
  residence     dwelling

To read instead:


  Single        One family      10,000     75      20     15     15      (1)    35(6)
  residence     dwelling

Or take any other action relative hereto. Sponsored by Andrew Colby and others.

Article 38 Schools Construction and/or Renovation Program
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
remodeling, construction, purchasing technology software and equipment,
furnishing or making extraordinary repairs, including all professional feasibility




                                          17
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


studies, design, architectural and engineering fees, to the Gerry, Coffin, Bell,
Eveleth, Glover, Village, Veterans Middle and High School and/or any other
schools and their respective playing fields;          to determine whether such
appropriation shall be raised by borrowing, by the transfer of an unused/prior
appropriation and borrowing authority for such purposes, or in any other manner; or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 39 Marblehead-Glover/Eveleth Project
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate, borrow or transfer from available funds,
a sum of money to be expended under the direction of the Glover School Building
Committee for the Glover/Eveleth School Building Project, consisting of a new
school building and all costs incidental and related thereto, to be located at 9 Maple
Street, Marblehead, Massachusetts, which school facility shall have an anticipated
useful life as an educational facility for the instruction of school children of at least
50 years, and for which the Town may be eligible for a school construction grant
from the Massachusetts School Building Authority (MSBA). The MSBA’s grant
program is a non-entitlement, discretionary program based on need, as determined
by the MSBA, and any project costs the Town incurs in excess of any grant
approved by and received from the MSBA shall be the sole responsibility of the
Town. Any grant that the Town of Marblehead may receive from the MSBA for
the Project shall not exceed the lesser of (1) forty-percent (40%) of eligible,
approved project costs, as determined by the MSBA, or (2) the total maximum grant
amount determined by the MSBA. Sponsored by the School Committee.




                                           18
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


You are hereby further required and directed to notify and warn the Inhabitants of
the Town of Marblehead aforesaid who are qualified to vote in elections and in
Town affairs to subsequently meet at the several designated polling places in their
respective precincts in said Marblehead to wit:

In Precinct 1 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 2 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 3 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 4 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 5 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 6 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 7 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER

on Monday, the 9th day of May next A.D. 2011 (it being the second Monday in
May) at 7 o’clock in the forenoon then and there to bring into the precinct officers
of their respective precincts their votes on one ballot for the following-named Town
Officers to wit:

5 Selectmen
1 Moderator
1 Assessor
1 Cemetery Commissioner
1 Board of Health
1 Housing Authority
2 Library Trustees
1 Electric Light Commissioner
2 Planning Board
5 Recreation & Park Commissioners
2 School Committee
2 Water and Sewer Commissioners

For these purposes the polls will be open at each and all of said precincts at 7
o’clock in the forenoon and will be closed at 8 o’clock in the afternoon at each and




                                        19
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


all of said precincts and you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested
copies thereof at Abbot Hall and ten (10) other conspicuous places in Town as
required by the Bylaws not later than thirty (30) days after being closed.
          Hereof fail not and make due return of this Warrant or a certified copy
thereof with our doings thereon, to each of the several precinct wardens at the time
and place of meetings aforesaid and to the Town Clerk as soon as may be before the
said meetings.

        Given under our hands at Marblehead aforesaid this 9th day of February
2011.

JAMES E. NYE, Chair
JACKIE BELF-BECKER
JUDITH R. JACOBI
T. MICHAEL ROCKETT
WILLIAM L. WOODFIN, II


Selectmen of Marblehead



A True Copy

Attest: Douglas Perry, Constable




                                        20
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                              Town of Marblehead
                              Annual Town Meeting
                              Monday May 2, 2011
                                       &
                              Tuesday, May 3, 2011

With A quorum met the Moderator called the 2011 Annual Town
Meeting to order at 7:47 pm

Recognized Charlie Delfaro, Harbormaster and Wayne Attridge Board of Health
Director for their service to the Town of Marblehead as they are retiring before next
year’s Town Meeting.

Recognized Paul Dulac Superintendent and Libby Moore Principal Veterans Middle
School on their retirement

Recognized Bill Woodfin, Selectman and Patricia Blackmer, School Committee as
they are not seeking re-election

ARTICLE 1 Articles in Numerical Order
           Voted: That the articles be taken up in their numerical order.

ARTICLE 2 Reports of Town Officers and Committees
           Voted: To receive the report of the Town Accountant, the reports
           of the Town Officers, and Special Committees.

ARTICLE 3       Assume Liability
                 Voted: That the Town will assume liability in the manner
                 provided by Section 29 of Chapter 91 of the General Laws as
                 most recently amended by Chapter 5, Acts of 1995, for all
                 damages that may be incurred by work to be performed by the
                 Department of Public Works of Massachusetts for the
                 improvement, development, maintenance and protection of tidal
                 and non tidal rivers and streams, harbors, tidewaters, foreshores
                 and shores along a public beach in accordance with Section II of
                 Chapter 91 of the General Laws and authorize the Selectmen to
                 execute and deliver a bond of indemnity therefore to the
                 Commonwealth.




                                         21
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


ARTICLE 4   Accept Trust Property
            Voted: That this Article be indefinitely postponed

ARTICLE 5   Lease Town Property
              Voted: To allow the Board of Selectmen and School Committee
              to let or lease such land, buildings or structures owed by the Town
              on such terms as they may determine.

ARTICLE 6   Unpaid Accounts
             Voted: to appropriate $280. 00 for the payment of any unpaid
             accounts brought forward from previous years.

ARTICLE 7   Proposed Acceptance of Section 18 of MGL Chapter 32B
              Voted: To accept the provisions of Section 18 of Chapter 32B of
              the Massachusetts General laws.

ARTICLE 8   Walls and Fences
             Voted: That this Article be indefinitely postponed


ARTICLE 9   Revolving Funds
             Voted: To continue the authorization of the following revolving
             funds as required by M.G.L. C.44,                s.53E 1/2 as
             recommended by the Board of Selectmen.
             1.    Historical Commission Gift Shop Revolving Fund in the
             amount of $13,000 in fiscal 2012 for the use of the Historical
             Commission to be taken from Historical Commission revenues
             from the sale of items at the gift shop operated by said
             commission; said appropriation to be used for expenses of
             operating said gift shop; and expended by the Commission.
             2.    Recreation and Park Revolving Fund in the amount of
             $300,000 in fiscal 2012 for the use of the Recreation and Park
             Commission to be taken from revenues in connection with
             recreation programs and activities including teen center, program
             fees, rentals, miscellaneous sales, promotional fees, $5.00 of out
             of town parking fees charged on weekends and various
             recreational fund raising events; said appropriation to be used for
             the expense of said activities including equipment and
             promotions; and expended by the Commission.




                                     22
   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


3.     Council on Aging Revolving Fund in the amount of
$250,000 in fiscal 2012 for the use of the Council on Aging Board
of Directors to be taken from revenues in connection with the
meals on wheels, and nutrition programs, mini-bus donations,
trips, miscellaneous programs, instructional classes, recreational
programs, games and tournaments, luncheons and entertainment,
and other activities including program fees, fund raising, rentals,
miscellaneous sales and promotional fees; said appropriation to be
used for the expense of said activities and trips, including
equipment and promotions; and expended by the Council on
Aging Board of Directors.
4.     Dog Officer/Animal Control Officer Revolving Fund in the
amount of $20,000 in fiscal 2012 for the use of the Dog Officer to
be taken from revenues in connection with fees, reimbursements,
deposits and refunds of animal medical expenses including spay
and neuter expenses, miscellaneous other sales and various fund
raising events;' said appropriation to be used for the expense of
said programs and activities including medical bills, animal food,
pet supplies and equipment, and promotional expenses; and
expended by the Dog Officer/ Animal Control Officer.
5.     RAD Program Revolving Fund in the amount of $7,500 in
fiscal 2012 for the use of the Police Chief to be taken from
revenues in connection with tuition, fees, reimbursements,
miscellaneous sales, gifts and donations of the RAD program;
said appropriation to be used for the expense of said program
including salaries and expenses including equipment.
6. School Tuition Revolving Fund in the amount of $40,000 in
fiscal 2012 for the use of the School Committee to be taken from
revenues in connection with tuition's from nonimmigrant foreign
students; said appropriation to be used for the expenses of
instruction including salaries, instructional supplies and
equipment.
7.     Commercial Waste Revolving Fund in the amount of
$450,000 in fiscal 2012 for the use of the Board of Health to be
taken from revenues in connection with commercial waste
disposal receipts; said fund to be expended for the cost of solid
waste disposal.
8.     Conservation Fines Revolving Fund in the amount of
$10,000 in fiscal 2012 for the use of the Conservation
Commission to be taken from revenues in connection with




                      23
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                receipts collected from fines assessed by the commission; said
                fund to be expended for remediation of wetlands violations and
                for the care and maintenance of lands under the control and
                jurisdiction of the Conservation Commission.
                9.    Sump Pump Improvement Revolving Fund in the amount of
                $25,000 in fiscal 2012 for the use of the Sewer and Water
                Commission; to be taken from revenues in connection with
                receipts collected from money received as a result of permitting
                fees; said fund to be expended for the aid in removal of sump
                pumps currently tied into the sewer system.
                10. Special Education Revolving Fund in the amount of
                $450,000 in fiscal 2012 for the use of the School Committee;
                revenues to be taken from tuition collected for special education
                students tuitioned in to the Marblehead Public Schools and from
                funds collected to pay for the other special education contracted
                services for out of district special education students being
                provided service through the North Shore Special Education
                Consortium and other approved special education public and
                private placements; said funds to be expended on costs directly
                related to the special education programs provided to these out of
                district students.
                11. Storm Water By-Law Revolving Fund in the amount of
                $10,000 in fiscal 2012 for the use of the conservation
                Commission; to be taken from revenues in connection with
                receipts collected from application fees associated with the town’s
                storm water management and erosion control regulations; said
                funds to be expended for expenses related to the enforcement and
                administration of the Storm water By-Law.

ARTICLE 10 Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
             Voted: That the sum of $624,615.00 be appropriated, and to meet
             this appropriation; $110,000.00 to be transferred from Sewer
             Retained Earnings, $135,000.00 is to be transferred from Water
             Retained Earnings and $379,615.00 is to be raised by taxation. To
             include the following:

                Police Department                   Highway Department
                2 Police Vehicles                   1 Paint Machine
                Tree Department                     1 Dump Truck w/Sander
                1 Brush Chipper                     Replace Fuel Pumps




                                      24
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                Building Department               Park Department
                Repair Bucket Truck               1 Utility vehicle
                School Department                 Water Department (1)
                1 School Bus                      1 Dump Truck
                Sewer Department (2)              1 Utility Vehicle
                1 Dump Truck
                                    1.    From Sewer Retained Earnings
                                    2.    From Water Retained Earnings

ARTICLE 11 Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
            Voted: That the sum of $182,300.00 be appropriated.
            $160,000.00 to be raised by taxation and $22,300.00 to be taken
            from the sale of lots fund.

                Abbot Hall                                          Fire Department
                Clock Tower Survey                                  New Turnout Gear
                Park Department                                     New Roof Headquarters
                Tennis Courts                                       Composite Cylinders SCBA
                Old Town House                                      Wire Inspector
                Reconstruction of Ramp                              Fire Alarm Circuit Upgrade
                Abbot Library                                       Cemetery Department
                Drainage & Foundation Improvements                  Grave Lot Expansion
                                                                    Fencing

ARTICLE 12 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule
            (Administrative)
            Voted: To amend the Classification and Wage Salary Plan by
            changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassifying
            certain positions in the Administrative Schedule: to waive
            Section 8 of the 1955 Salary By-Law as last amended by striking
            out the pay schedule as it relates to administrative personnel,
            substitute in place thereof the following new pay schedule as it
            relates to said personnel:

                ADMINISTRATIVE SALARY SCHEDULE
                        Effective July 1, 2011 - 2%
Grade   Title            Step 1     Step 2      Step 3    Step 4     Step 5
59      Town             1697.57    1838.13     1978.68   2119.19    2259.74
        Administrator




                                     25
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


58                     1528.13   1654.82   1781.50   1908.19   2034.88
57   Director          1376.11   1490.15   1604.13   1718.18   1832.19
     Finance/Town
     Accountant
     Police Chief
     Fire Chief
     Supt
     Water/Sewer
56   Asst. Assessor    1236.78   1339.69   1442.64   1545.56   1648.51
     Director Public
     Health
     Director
     Library
55   Harbormaster      1113.25   1205.88   1298.54   1391.17   1483.82
     Supt
     Recreation/Park
     Building
     Commissioner
     Director Public
     Works
     Assistant Supt
     Water/Sewer
     Engineering &
     Conservation
     Adm
     Assistant
     Director
     Accounting
     Director
     Council on
     Aging
     Town Planner
54   Asst. Director    1002.39   1085.12   1167.90   1250.64   1333.38
     Revenue




                                  26
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


     Assistant
     Director
     Library
     Asst
     Director/Public
     Works
     Public Health
     Nurse
     Plumbing
     Inspector
     Wire Inspector
53   Superintendent    902.61   977.05   1051.48   1125.93   1200.34
     Cemetery
     Local Inspector
     Building
     Recreation
     Supervisor
     Assistant Wire
     Inspector
     Office Manager
     Sewer/Water
     Payroll
     Administrator
     Asst
     Director/Tree
     Warden
52   Assistant         847.19   905.80   964.37    1022.99   1081.55
     Revenue
     Officer
     Health
     Inspector
     Veterans
     Agent/Sealer




                                 27
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


        Assistant
        Harbormaster
        Accounting &
        Website
        Assistant
        Administrative
        Aide Selectmen
51      Dog Officer       804.43    856.70      908.96     961.23     1013.49
        Accounting
        Assistant
50      Administrative    723.69    772.80      821.86     870.96     920.08
        Clerk
49                        652.43    696.36      740.31     784.24     828.23

ARTICLE 13      Pay Schedule and Reclassification (Traffic Supervisors)
                Voted: To amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification and
                Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated
                and reclassify certain positions in the Traffic Supervisors Pay
                Schedule; to waive the pay schedule as it relates to Traffic
                Supervisor personnel, substitute in place thereof the following
                new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or
                appropriate a sum of money to make said new pay schedules
                effective, or take any other action relative thereto.

ARTICLE 14 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Seasonal and
             Temporary Personnel)
             Voted: To amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification and
             Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated
             and reclassify certain positions in the Seasonal and Temporary
             Personnel Pay Schedules; strike out the pay schedules as they
             relate to seasonal and temporary personnel, substitute in place
             thereof the following new pay schedules and to transfer from
             available funds and/or appropriate a sum of money to make said
             new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
             thereto.




                                      28
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


ARTICLE 15 Compensation - Town Officers
            Voted: That the yearly compensation of the Town Officer named
            in this article be as follows:
            Town Clerk                                         $69,602.44

                Said amount to be in full compensation for services as Town
                Clerk. All fees received by the Town Clerk in his official
                capacity to be accounted for to the Town Revenue Officer. That
                the Town Clerk as elected and having served in that position or as
                a regular full-time employee for five consecutive years, and for
                each applicable additional five years on such basis, shall be paid
                longevity pay annually, in addition to her weekly salary.
                Eligibility will be determined on November 30 each year and
                payment made to the official with the first regular payroll of
                December of that year. Only those in office on the determination
                date and qualified by their consecutive years of service, as
                described above, shall receive longevity pay for the calendar year.
                Annual longevity for Town Clerk

                         Pay Schedule
                         Not less than 5 years                    $300.00
                         Not less than 10 years                    400.00
                         Not less than 15 years                    500.00
                         Not less than 20 years                    600.00
                         Not less than 25 years                    700.00
                         30 years and over                         800.00

ARTICLE 16 Water Department Construction
            Voted: To appropriate a sum of $440,928.00 to be expended by
            the Water and Sewer Commission for the construction,
            reconstruction and extending of water mains, replacement of
            water meters, appurtenances, engineering, consultants, surveys
            including revenue studies and other general Water Department
            purposes, and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer
            Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or
            otherwise any lands or easements necessary to take any other
            action relative thereto.




                                       29
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


ARTICLE 17 Sewer Department Construction
             Voted: To appropriate a sum $450,585.00 to expended by the
             Water and Sewer Commission for the construction or
             reconstruction of sewers for sanitary purposes and for sewerage
             disposal, pump stations, original pumping equipment, metering
             equipment, safety equipment, replacement of said equipment,
             engineering, consultants, surveys, including revenue studies and
             other general Sewer Department purposes, and to authorize the
             Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by
             purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements
             necessary to take any other action relative thereto.

ARTICLE 18 Storm Drainage Construction
             Voted: To appropriate a sum of $324,000.00or the construction or
             reconstruction of sewers for surface drainage purposes, and to
             authorize the appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase,
             eminent domain or otherwise, any land or easements necessary
             therefore, to be expended by the Water and Sewer Commission.

ARTICLE 19      Water and Sewer Commission Claims
                Voted: To authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the
                Board of Selectmen acting jointly to compromise any claims for
                damages or suits pending against the Town of Marblehead on
                account of acts which may have occurred during the construction
                of the water, sewer and storm water system or take any other
                action relative thereto.

ARTICLE 20      Surface Drainage Construction
                Voted: To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of
                money for the construction or reconstruction of storm sewers for
                surface drainage purposes, including engineering services in
                connection therewith, and to authorize the appropriate Town
                Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise,
                and land or easements necessary therefore; to determine whether
                this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or to
                take any other action relative thereto

ARTICLE 21      Financial Assistance for Conservation
                Voted: To authorize the Conservation Commission and other
                proper officers of the Town to apply for financial assistance




                                       30
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                from public and private sources to be expended by the
                Conservation Commission for the purchase of vacant land and any
                other purpose, authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the
                General Laws as amended, or to reimburse the Town for sums of
                money expended for such purposes, or both, and to take any other
                action relative thereto.

ARTICLE 22      North Shore Regional Vocational School District
                Voted: That this Article be indefinitely postponed

ARTICLE 23      Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District
                Voted: That this Article be indefinitely postponed

ARTICLE 24      Available Funds appropriate to Reduce Tax Rate
                Voted: That the sum of $4,925,434.00 be appropriated for the use
                of the assessors in making the Tax Rate.

                From Free Cash                                  $4,595,434.00
                From Electric Surplus                             330,000.00
                                                                $4,925,434.00

ARTICLE 25 Expenses of Several Departments
            Item 1 Moderator
            Voted: That the sum of $100.00 be and hereby is appropriated for
            the Moderator as follows:

                Item 1   Officials Expense                              $100.00

ARTICLE 25      Expenses of Several Departments
                Items 2 3 4 5 6 Selectmen
                Voted: That the sum of $453,834.00 be and hereby is
                appropriated for the Selectmen as follows:

                Item 2   Officials Expense                             $5,500.00
                Item 3   Salaries & Wages                             341,171.00
                Item 4   Expense                                       98,163.00
                Item 5   Zoning Board Legal Services                    7,000.00
                Item 6   Out of State Travel                             2,000.00
                                                                      $453,834.00




                                        31
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 7 8 9 Finance Committee
             Voted: That the sum of $14,070.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for the Finance Committee as follows:

             Item 7 Salaries & Wages                                $8,310.00
             Item 8 Expense                                          5,585.00
             Item 9 Local Travel                                       175.00
                                                                   $14,070.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 10 Reserve Fund
             Voted: That the sum of $144,000.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Reserve Fund.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 12 13 Finance Department
             Voted: That the sum of $887,436.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Finance Department as follows:

             Item 12 Salaries & Wages                         $640,231.00
             Item 13 Expense                                   246,205.00
                                                              $887,436.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 17 18 19 20 Assessor
             Voted: That the sum of $212,651.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Assessor as follows:

             Item 17 Officials Expense                            $300.00
             Item 18 Salaries & Wages                          178,166.00
             Item 19 Expense                                    33,785.00
             Item 20 Local Travel                                  400.00
                                                              $212, 651.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 29 30 Town Counsel
             Voted: That the sum of $64,932.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for the Town Counsel as follows:




                                  32
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


             Item 29 Salaries & Wages                            $2,000.00
             Item 30 Expense                                     62,932.00
                                                                $64,932.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 35 Parking Clerk
             Voted: That the sum of $10,484.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for the Parking Clerk Department as follows:

             Item 35 Expense                                    $10,484.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 39 40 Town Clerk
             Voted: That the sum of $164,556.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Town Clerk as follows:

             Item 39 Salaries & Wages                          $155,519.00
             Item 40 Expense                                      9,037.00
                                                               $164,556.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 43 44 Election and Registration
             Voted: That the sum of $39,865.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for the Election and Registration as follows:

             Item 43 Salaries & Wages                              $18,000.00
             Item 44 Expense                                        21,865.00
                                                                   $39,865.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 50 Planning Board
             Voted: That the sum of $1,675.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for the Planning Board as follows:

             Item 50 Expense                                        $1,675.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 55 56 57 Public Buildings
             Voted: That the sum of $190,016.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Public Buildings as follows:




                                  33
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



             Item 55 Salaries & Wages                            $88.516.00
             Item 56 Expense                                     101,100.00
             Item 57 Local Travel                                    400.00
                                                                $190,016.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 59 Town Report
             Voted: That the sum of $4,300.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for the Town Report to be expended by the Board of Selectmen.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 60 Town Audit
             Voted: That the sum of $40,000.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for the Town Audit to be expended by the Board of Selectmen.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 62 63 64 Police Department
             Voted: That the sum of $3,244,978.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Police Department as follows:

             Item 62 Salaries & Wages                        $3,047,579.00
             Item 63 Expense                                    187,399.00
             Item 64 Indemnification of Officers                 10,000.00
                                                             $3,244,978.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 68 69 Fire Department
             Voted: That the sum of $2,999,472.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Fire Department as follows:

             Item 68 Salaries & Wages                        $2,856,544.00
             Item 69 Expense                                    143,308.00
                                                             $2,999,472.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 73 74 75 Building Inspection
             Voted: That the sum of $456,257.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for Building Inspection as follows:




                                   34
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


             Item 73 Salaries & Wages                            $443,502.00
             Item 74 Expense                                        9,755.00
             Item 75 Local Travel                                   3,000.00
                                                                 $456,257.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 80 Sealer of Weights and Measures
             Voted: That the sum of $250.00 be and hereby is appropriated for
             the Sealer of Weights and Measures as follows:

             Item 80 Expense                                 $250.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 86 Animal Inspector
             Voted: That the sum of $2,400.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for the Animal Inspector as follows:

             Item 86 Salaries                              $2,400.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 101 School Department
             Voted: That the sum of $28,838,012.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the School Department.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 105 106 107 Engineer
             Voted: That the sum of $119,724.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Engineer as follows:

             Item 105 Salaries & Wages                            $108,829.00
             Item 106 Expense                                        10,395.00
             Item 107 Local Travel                                     500.00
                                                                  $119,724.00
             To meet this appropriation, $6,000.00 is to be transferred from
             Wetland Filing Fees and $113,724.00 to be taken from Taxation.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 112 113 Highway
             Voted: That the sum of $821,368.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Highway as follows:




                                   35
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



             Item 112 Salaries & Wages                           $734,284.00
             Item 113 Expense                                       87,084.00
                                                                 $821,368.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 116 Maintain Streets & Sidewalks
             Voted: That the sum of $33,750.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             to maintain streets and sidewalks and said work to be done under
             the direction of the Director of Public Works and said sum of
             money to be expended by the Director of Public Works.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 117 Snow Removal
             Voted: That the sum of $100,000.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the use of the Director of Public Works to cover
             all expenses incidental to snow removal.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 118 Street Lighting
             Voted: That the sum of $128,820.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Street Lighting in accordance with Section
             58, Chapter 164 of the Massachusetts General Laws.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 126 127 128 Waste Collection
             Voted: That the sum of $1,958,521.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Waste Collection as follows:

             Item 126 Salaries & Wages                           $288,354.00
             Item 127 Expense                                   1,668,655.00
             Item 128 Local Travel                                 1,512.00
                                                             $1,958,521.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 132 133 Drains
             Voted: That the sum of $105,800.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Drains as follows:

             Item 132 Salaries & Wages                           $100,650.00




                                   36
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


             Item 133 Expense                                     5,150.00
                                                               $105,800.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 141 142 143 Cemetery
             Voted: That the sum of $327,921.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Cemetery as follows:

             Item 141 Officials Expense                               $300.00
             Item 142 Salaries & Wages                             305,775.00
             Item 143 Expenses                                      21,846.00
                                                                  $327,921.00
             To meet this appropriation, $277,921.00 is to be raised by
             taxation, and $50,000.00 to be transferred from Cemetery
             Perpetual Care.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 148 149 Tree
             Voted: That the sum of $289,494.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Tree Department as follows:

             Item 148 Salaries & Wages                          $237,916.00
             Item 149 Expense                                    51,578.00
                                                               $289,494.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 153 154 155 157 158 Health Department
             Voted: That the sum of $154,494.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Health Department as follows:

             Item 153 Officials Expense                             $400.00
             Item 154 Salaries & Wages                           134,939.00
             Item 155 Expense                                     13,055.00
             Item 157 Local Travel                                2,100.00
             Item 158 HAWC                                         4,000.00
                                                               $154,494.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 162 Mental Health




                                   37
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


             Voted: That the sum of $60,000.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for the Mental Health Department as follows:

             Item 162 Contractual Services                           $60,000.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 164 165 Council on Aging
             Voted: That the sum of $197,277.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Council on Aging as follows:

             Item 164 Salaries & Wages                          $193,818.00
             Item 165 Expense                                       3,459.00
                                                                $197,277.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 175 176 177 178 Veterans Benefits
             Voted: That the sum of $78,700.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for the Veterans Benefits as follows:

             Item 175 Salaries & Wages                            $57,357.00
             Item 176 Expense                                       1,243.00
             Item 177 Local Travel                                 1,100.00
             Item 178 Benefits                                     19,000.00
                                                                 $78,700.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 185 186 187 Library
             Voted: That the sum of $991,798.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Abbot Public Library as follows:

             Item 185 Salaries & Wages                         $746,403.00
             Item 186 Expense                                   245,295.00
             Item 187 Local Travel                                  100.00
                                                               $991,798.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 190 191 192 Park Department
             Voted: That the sum of $777,561.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Park and Recreation as follows:




                                   38
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


             Item 190 Salaries & Wages                          $559,878.00
             Item 191 Expense                                    171,590.00
             Item 192 Facility Expense                            46,093.00
                                                                $777,561.00

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 210 Memorial & Veterans Day
             Voted: That the sum of $1,950.00 be and hereby is appropriated
             for Memorial and Veterans Day, said sum of money to be
             expended by the Board of Selectmen.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 214 215 Maturing Bonds and Interest
             Voted: That the sum of $4,314,596.25 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Maturing Bonds and Interest as follows:

             Item 214 Maturing Debt                            $2,525.000.00
             Item 215Interest                                   1,789,596.25
                                                              $4,314,596.25
             To meet this appropriation $238,956.00 is to be transferred from
             Bond Premium reserved for appropriation and $4,075,640.25 is
             to be raised by taxation.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 217 Contributory Retirement
             Voted: That the sum of $1,881,112.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Contributory Retirement Fund.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 218 Medicare
             Voted: That the sum of $480,000.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for Medicare, to be expended by the Finance
             Director.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 219 Workmen’s Compensation
             Voted: That the sum of $285,000.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated to be added to the Workmen’s Compensation Trust
             Fund (and allowed to accumulate from year to year) to be




                                   39
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


             expended by the Finance Director to pay expenses of Workmen’s
             Compensation.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 221 Group Insurance
             Voted: That the sum of $11,454,905.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for Group Insurance to be expended by the Finance
             Director.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 222 Other Insurance
             Voted: That the sum of $475,888.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for Other Insurance, to be expended by the Board of
             Selectmen.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 223 Salary Reserve
             Voted: That the sum of $195,242.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for Salary Reserve, to be expended by the Board of
             Selectmen.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 224 Non-Contributory Retirement
             Voted: That the sum of $116,324.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for Non-Contributory Retirement, to be expended by
             the Finance Director/Town Accountant.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 225 Energy Reserve
             Voted: That the sum of $533,544.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for Energy Reserve, to be expended by the Board of
             Selectmen.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 227 228 230 Sewer Department
             Voted: That the sum of $3,318,037.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Sewer Department as follows:

             Item 227 Salaries & Wages                         $597,054.00
             Item 228 Expense                                   555,651.00




                                   40
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


             Item 230 South Essex Sewer District                 2,165,332.00
                                                               $3,318,037.00
             To meet this appropriation, $3,318,037.00 is to be transferred
             from sewer receipts.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 231 232 235 Water Department
             Voted: That the sum of $2,939,632.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Water Department as follows:

             Item 231 Salaries & Wages                            $585,669.00
             Item 232 Expense                                      537,807.00
             Item 235 Metropolitan Water                         1,816,156.00
                                                               $2,939,632.00
             To meet this appropriation, $2,939,632.00 is to be transferred
             from water receipts.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Item 236 Municipal Light Department
             Voted: That the income from sales of electricity to private
             consumers, from electricity supplied to municipal buildings and
             electricity supplied for municipal power during the current fiscal
             year be appropriated for the Municipal Light Plant, the whole to
             be expended by the manager of the Municipal Lighting Plant,
             under the direction and control of the Municipal Light Board for
             the expense of the plant for said fiscal year as defined in Section
             57 of Chapter 164 of the General Laws; and said Municipal Light
             Board is hereby further authorized to pay from income of the
             plant for the fiscal year such amounts as may be expended for
             extensions, reconstruction enlargements, or additions and sell or
             trade apparatus that has worn out its usefulness and is unfit for
             requirements during the fiscal year.

ARTICLE 25   Expenses of Several Departments
             Items 238 239 241 Harbor Department
             Voted: That the sum of $901,183.00 be and hereby is
             appropriated for the Harbor Department as follows:

             Item 238 Salaries & Wages                           $342,776.00
             Item 239 Expense                                     308,407.00




                                   41
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


             Item 241 Outlays                                      250,000.00
                                                                 $901,183.00
             To meet this appropriation, $651,183.00 is to be transferred from
             harbor receipts and 250,000.00 will be from Harbor Retained
             Earnings.

ARTICLE 26   Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
             Voted: That this Article be indefinitely postponed

ARTICLE 27   Handicapped Parking
             Voted: To amend the By-Laws of the Town of Marblehead by
             adding the following new Article to Chapter 119 thereof:

             Article V: Parking Spaces Reserved for Disabled Veterans or
             Handicapped Persons
             § 119-5 Standing or Leaving of Vehicles Prohibited
             The standing or leaving of vehicles unattended within parking
             spaces designated as reserved for vehicles owned and operated by
             disabled veterans or handicapped persons, including cross-hatch
             areas adjacent thereto, if any, is prohibited except where such
             vehicle is owned or operated by a disabled veteran or handicapped
             person or is transporting handicapped person(s), and only where
             such vehicle is properly identified as such as specified in G.L. c.
             40, § 21(23). Parking in such a manner so as to obstruct a curb
             ramp designed for use by a handicapped person as a means of
             egress to a street or public way shall also be prohibited. The
             foregoing prohibition shall apply to all public and private ways
             and in all places where the public has a right of access as invitees
             or licensees.

             § 119-6 Violations and Penalties
             The penalty for violation of this Article V shall be not less than
             $100 nor more than $300 per occurrence. The Board of
             Selectmen is further authorized to provide for the removal of
             vehicles as may be required hereunder, in accordance with G.L. c.
             40, § 22D, and the violator shall be liable for all charges incurred
             for the removal and storage of such vehicle in addition to the
             foregoing penalty.

             § 119-7 Enforcement




                                    42
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                Violations of this Article V may be processed pursuant to G.L. c.
                40, § 21D, and shall be in the amount set forth above.
                Enforcement under the noncriminal disposition process shall be
                carried out by the Police Chief and /or by duly-sworn police
                officers, who shall have full enforcement powers.

ARTICLE 28 Old Town House
            Counted Vote:
            In Favor 571                Against 45
            2/3 Vote Achieved
            Voted: That the sum of $667,793.00 be appropriated to be
            expended by the Board of Selectmen to fund the final design,
            public bidding and construction for the improvements to the Old
            Town House, including but not limited to making the building
            universally accessible; to meet said appropriation authorize the
            Town Treasurer, with the approval of the Board of Selectmen, to
            borrow said sum under M.G.L. Chapter 44, or any other enabling
            authority; and further provided that said appropriation shall be
            subject to and contingent upon an affirmative vote of the Town to
            exempt the amounts required for the payment of interest and
            principal on said borrowing from the limitations on taxes imposed
            by M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 21C( Proposition 2 ½).

ARTICLE 29      Devereux Beach, Non Smoking Area– Amendment
                Vote Failed
                To strike “Playground” from Article 29.

ARTICLE 29      Devereux Beach, Non Smoking Area
                Voted: That the Town vote to amend the By-Laws of the Town of
                Marblehead by adding a new article IV to Chapter 119 thereof,
                entitled “No-Smoking Areas,” Section 119-8, entitled “Devereux
                Beach,” stating that the “Smoking of tobacco products in the
                playground area of Devereux Beach is prohibited.” This article
                shall be enforced by the Board of Health, pursuant to duly
                promulgated regulation as may be adopted by it consistent
                herewith.

ARTICLE 30      Remove Position of Police Chief from Civil Service
                Counted Vote:
                In Favor 428             Against 161




                                      43
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


             Voted: To petition the General Court to pass AN ACT
             EXEMPTING THE POSITION OF POLICE CHIEF OF THE
             TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD FROM THE PROVISIONS OF
             THE CIVIL SERVICE LAW

                Section 1: The position of Police Chief in the Town of
                Marblehead shall be exempt from the provisions of Chapter 31
                of the General Laws and related regulations applicable thereto.

                Section 2: The provisions of Section 1 of this act shall not
                impair the civil service status of the present incumbent Police
                Chief holding such status on the effective date of this act.

                Section 3: This act shall take effect upon its passage.

ARTICLE 31   Police Chief Selection Process
             Voted: To rescind Chapter 45, Article I, Section 45-1 of the
             General Bylaws which now reads:
             The Board of Selectmen shall appoint the Chief of Police in
             accordance with the applicable provisions of the General Laws of
             the Commonwealth and amendments thereto and the applicable
             valid rules and regulations issued under said chapter and
             amendments thereto. Unless otherwise required by the applicable
             provisions of said chapter, amendments, rules and regulations, no
             member of the Board of Selectmen shall be eligible for
             appointment to such office.
             Shall be rescinded and in place thereof the following shall be
             inserted:

             45-1 Police Chief

                45-1-1 Appointment

                  45-1-1-1.1 Committee Composition
                  In the event there is an opening for the position of Police
                  Chief, the Board of Selectmen shall exercise its authority as
                  the Appointing Authority and appoint the Police Chief
                  based upon the recommendation of the Police Chief
                  Screening Committee (the “Committee”). Such Committee
                  shall be comprised of seven (7) members appointed by the




                                    44
   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


     Board of Selectmen and representing the following
     municipal and/or community groups:

Town Administrator
School Department
Fire Department
Police Department
Council on Aging
Citizenry
Public Safety Professional

     45-1-1-2 Recommendation Timeframe
         The Committee shall advertise for the position of
          Police Chief through any medium deemed appropriate
          by the Committee, including but not limited to the
          Town’s municipal website and at least one newspaper
          of wide circulation throughout the Commonwealth.
         Applicants shall have at least forty-five (45) days from
          the date of initial publication to submit applications to
          the Board of Selectmen.
         At the close of the application period, the Board of
          Selectmen shall provide the Committee with all
          application response materials received.
         Within ten (10) days following the close of the
          application period, the Committee shall meet in
          accordance with G.L. c. 30A, § 21 to review all
          applications and determine by vote, the top 5
          applicants.
         Within ten (10) days following the vote, the
          Committee shall interview the top five (5) applicants
          as determined by the Committee.
         Within ten (10) days of the completion of all
          interviews, the Committee shall determine the top
          three applicants and confirm with the Applicants that
          they are interested in moving forward in the selection
          process.
         The Committee shall thereafter submit forthwith a
          written recommendation to the Board of Selectmen
          indicating the top three (3) applicants.




                      45
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


  45-1-1-3 Evaluation Criteria
  The Recommendation Committee shall evaluate the
  applicants using criteria including but not limited to the
  following:

             Character
             Education
             Prior Experience as a Police Officer
             Prior Experience as a Police Chief
             Prior Employment Record
             Recommendations (Personal and Professional)

  45-1-1-4 Board of Selectmen Process
  Within twenty-one (21) days of the receipt of the
  Committee’s recommendation, the Board of Selectmen
  shall interview the Candidates and conduct further review
  and investigation that the Board deems necessary and
  appropriate.

  45-1-1-5 Candidate Selection
  The Board of Selectmen shall select a top candidate for the
  position of Police Chief. Within ten (10) days of the
  Board’s vote, the Chairman shall contact the top applicant
  and notify him or her of the Board’s selection. The top
  applicant shall have forty-eight (48) hours to accept the
  position of Police Chief, subject to contract negotiations.
  Thereafter the Board of Selectmen and the selected
  candidate shall enter into contract negotiations and submit
  to any other applicable preliminary hiring requirements. In
  the event the top applicant does not accept the position of
  Police Chief within the forty-eight (48) hour acceptance
  period, the Chairman of the Board of Selectmen shall
  contact the next ranked applicant and offer him or her the
  position of Police Chief. In the event that all three (3) top
  applicants refuse the position of Police Chief or the Board
  determines that none of the applicants meet the needs of
  the community at that time, then the Committee shall re-
  advertise for the position of Police Chief and follow the
  process as noted in section 45-1-1-2 above.




                  46
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                      45-1-1-6 Physical Examination
                      Prior to commencement of employment, the newly
                      appointed Police Chief must submit to a physical
                      examination in accordance with Section 106-1 of the
                      Town’s General Bylaws

                   45-1-2 Term
                   The appointed Police Chief shall serve for three years subject
                   to reappointment at the discretion of the Board of Selectmen.

                   45-1-3 Duties
                   The duties of the Police Chief shall be those established by the
                   Board of Selectmen from time to time.

                   45-1-4 Employment Contract
                   The Board of Selectmen shall prepare an employment contract
                   with the Police Chief covering the terms and conditions of the
                   Chief's employment.

                   45-1-5 Non-eligibility
                   No member of the Board of Selectmen shall be eligible for
                   appointment to the position of Police Chief.

                   45-1-6 Applicability
                   This by-law shall apply only to a Police Chief who is
                   appointed subsequent to the time that the position of Police
                   Chief is removed from Civil Service.

                   45-1-7 Effective Date
                   This by-law shall take effect if and when the General Court
                   passes Special Legislation for the Town of Marblehead
                   allowing the position of Police Chief to be exempted from the
                   provision of Civil Service.

At 10:15pm voted to adjourn the meeting to Tuesday May 3 th at 7:45PM at the
Veteran’s Middle School Performing Arts Center.

With a quorum met the Moderator reconvened the 2011 Annual Town Meeting
at 7:46 PM.




                                      47
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


ARTICLE 32   Old Landfill Remediation/ Construct New Solid Waste
             Facility
             Counted Vote:
             For 668 Against 52
             2/3 Vote Achieved
             Voted: To appropriate a sum of $15,102,000.00 be expended by
             the Board of Health for the permitting, public bidding and
             construction of a cap for the area(s) encompassing the old landfill
             in accordance with and as required by applicable statutes and
             regulations, deconstructing the old Transfer Station, constructing
             stormwater controls, constructing and/or moving water and sewer
             mains, and constructing a new Transfer Station, new Recycling
             Drop-Off Area, new Swap Shed, and new Yard Waste Processing
             Area, and funding the acquisition of all related real property
             easements or other interests in real property and including
             engineering, testing, legal and related costs and fees; to meet said
             appropriation authorize the Town Treasurer, with the approval of
             the Board of Selectmen, to borrow said sum under M.G.L.
             Chapter 44, or any other enabling authority, and further provided
             that said appropriation shall be subject to and contingent upon an
             affirmative vote of the Town to exempt the amounts required for
             the payment of interest and principal on said borrowing from the
             limitations on taxes imposed by M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 21C
             (Proposition 2 ½ ).

ARTICLE 33   Landfill Regulatory Compliance Activities
             Counted Vote
             For 640            Against 29
             2/3 Vote Achieved
             Voted: That the sum of $770,600.00 be appropriated to be
             expended by the Board of Health for continued water quality
             monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk assessment, and any other
             engineering and any other services related to determining the
             extent of clean up or remediation necessary in connection with the
             old landfill; such amount to be raised by taxation, $114,600.00 of
             which shall be raised subject to the limitations on total taxes
             imposed by M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 21C (Proposition 2 ½ ),
             and $656,000.00 be subject to a Proposition 2 ½ capital outlay
             expenditure override; provided, however, that the appropriation in
             the amount of $656,000.00 shall not take effect until the Town




                                    48
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


             votes to exempt from the limitations on total taxes imposed by
             M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 21C (Proposition 2 ½ ) the amount of
             $656,000.00 required for said capital outlay expenditure.

ARTICLE 34   Stony Brook Road Clean Up Real Property Purchase and/or
             Taking
             Counted Vote
             For 648           Against 21
             2/3 Vote Achieved
             Voted: That the Board of Selectmen is hereby authorized to
             purchase, acquire or take by eminent domain, the property and/or
             building(s) located at the following:

                     56 Stony Brook Road, and more particularly described in
                      a deed found at Book 12823 Page 8 recorded at the Essex
                      South Registry of Deeds containing 10,026 square feet
                      +/-;

                     A portion of 55 Stony Brook Road as more particularly
                      described in a deed found at Book 11888 Page 451 and
                      recorded in the Essex South Registry of Deeds that
                      portion shown on a plan entitled “55 Stony Brook Road
                      Taking or Acquisition Area” by Kleinfelder SEA and
                      dated January 2011 and which area contains 7,582 sq ft
                      +/-;

                     A temporary construction easement on a portion of 52
                      Stony Brook Road as more particularly described in a
                      master deed found at Book 27351 Page 3 that portion
                      being shown on a plan entitled “52 Stony Brook Road
                      Area of Remediation” by Kleinfelder SEA, dated
                      January 2011 said area indicated as Area of
                      Remediation;

             And the sum of $1,820,808.00 be appropriated for said purchase
             or taking, along with all legal costs, costs of remediation, costs of
             settlement of claims or potential claims all in connection with the
             clean-up related to the historic operations of the former landfill to
             meet said appropriation authorize the Town Treasurer with the
             approval of the Board of Selectmen, to borrow said sum under




                                    49
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


             M.G.L. c. 44, or any other enabling authority, provided that said
             appropriation and borrowing authority shall be subject to and
             contingent upon an affirmative vote of the Town to exempt the
             amounts required for payment of principal and interest on said
             borrowing from the limitations on total taxes imposed by M.G.L.
             c. 59, Section 21C (Proposition 2 ½ ).

ARTICLE 35   Stony Brook Road Clean-up, Funding for Real Property
             Taking and Remediation
             Counted Vote
             For 640            Against 18
             Voted: That the sum of $1,251,769.00 to be expended by the
             Board of Selectmen and the Board of Health to fund the purchase
             or taking of the property and building(s), the remediation of the
             property and building(s) and to fund the settlement of claims or
             potential claims, related to, the property located at 57 Stony
             Brook Road, and more particularly described in a deed found at
             Book 22473 Page 485 recorded at the Essex South Registry of
             Deeds containing 18,430 square feet +/-, which said purchase or
             taking by eminent domain was approved in Article 23 of the 2010
             Annual Town Meeting, all as part of the clean-up related to the
             historic operations of the former landfill and including all
             associated engineering and legal costs; and to meet said
             appropriation authorize the Town Treasurer with the approval of
             the Board of Selectmen, to borrow said sum under M.G.L. c. 44,
             or any other enabling authority, provided that said appropriation
             shall be subject to and contingent upon an affirmative vote of the
             Town to exempt the amounts required for payment of principal
             and interest on said borrowing from the limitations on total taxes
             imposed by M.G.L. c. 59, Section 21C (Proposition 2 ½ ).

ARTICLE 36   Zoning Bylaw, Lot Width Requirement – Amendment
             Vote Failed
             Motion:
             Vote to amend the Marblehead Zoning Bylaw, by changing the
             definition of Lot Width in Section 200-7, which presently reads:

             The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured
             perpendicular to the mean direction of the side lot lines. At no
             point between the front lot line and the rear lot line shall the lot be




                                     50
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


             narrower than 75% of the required lot frontage. (see §200-16E,
             Minimum lot width.)

             To read instead: (bold text added)

             The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured
             perpendicular to the mean direction of the side lot lines. At no
             point between the front lot line and the rear lot line shall the lot be
             narrower than 60% of the required lot frontage. (See §200-16E,
             Minimum lot width)

             And by changing Section 200-16(E), which presently reads:

             Minimum lot width. The width of a lot shall not at any point be
             less than 75% of the required lot frontage (for corner lots only the
             frontage opposite the rear lot line) without having first obtained a
             special permit for use and dimension from the Board of Appeals.
             (See the definition of “lot width” in § 200-7)

             To read instead:

             Minimum lot width. The width of a lot shall not at any point be
             less than 60% of the required lot frontage (for corner lots only the
             frontage opposite the rear lot line) without having first obtained a
             special permit for use and dimension from the Board of Appeals.
             (See the definition of “lot width” in § 200-7)


ARTICLE 36   Zoning Bylaw, Lot Width Requirement
             Counted Vote
             For 474 Against 218
             Voted: That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 37   Zoning Bylaw, Lot Frontage Requirement
             Not Considered by Town meeting
             Ruled out of Order

ARTICLE 38   Schools Construction and/or Renovation Program
             Voted: That this article be indefinitely postponed.




                                     51
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


ARTICLE 39     Marblehead-Glover/Eveleth Project
               Counted Vote:
               For 605 Against 38
               Voted: That the Town of Marblehead appropriate the sum of
               twenty-five million, four hundred and fifty thousand dollars and
               no/100’s ($25,450,000.00) for the design, project management
               and construction of a new elementary school for 425 students at
               the Glover School site, located at 7-9 Maple Street, parcel number
               40 4 0; which school facility shall have an anticipated useful life
               as an educational facility for the instruction of school children for
               at least 50 years, said sum to be expended under the direction of
               the Glover School Building Committee, and to meet said
               appropriation the Treasurer is authorized to borrow said sum
               under M.G.L. Chapter 44, or any other enabling authority; that the
               town of Marblehead acknowledges that the Massachusetts School
               Building Authority’s (“MSBA”) grant program is a non-
               entitlement, discretionary program based on need, as determined
               by the MSBA, and any project costs the Town of Marblehead
               incurs in excess of any grant approved by and received from the
               MSBA shall be the sole responsibility of the Town of
               Marblehead; provided further that any grant that the Town of
               Marblehead may receive from the MSBA for the Project shall not
               exceed the lesser of (1) forty percent (40%) of eligible, approved
               project costs as determined by the MSBA, or (2) the total
               maximum grant amount determined by the MSBA; provided that
               any appropriation hereunder shall be subject to and contingent
               upon an affirmative vote of the Town to exempt the amounts
               required for payment of interest and principal on said borrowing
               from the limitations on taxes imposed by M.G.L. c. 59, Section
               21C (Proposition 2 ½ ); and that the amount of borrowing
               authorized pursuant to this vote shall be reduced by any grant
               amount set forth in the Project Funding Agreement that may be
               executed between the Town of Marblehead and the MSBA.


Voted to Adjourn at 10:21 PM




                                      52
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                              Marblehead Massachusetts
                               Annual Town Election
                               Monday May 9th, 2011

 The Number of Votes Cast were as follows:

 Precinct 1          483              22.2% of 2,179 Registered Voters
 Precinct 2          429              22.9% of 1,872 Registered Voters
 Precinct 3          418              22.6% of 1,851 Registered Voters
 Precinct 4          487              22.6% of 2,155 Registered Voters
 Precinct 5          430              20.7% of 2,077 Registered Voters
 Precinct 6          475              22.3% of 2,134 Registered Voters
 Precinct 7          497              23.5% of 2,114 Registered Voters
 Total               3219             22.4% of 14,382 Registered Voters

 Canvas Completed at 10:00 pm



                               Selectmen 1 Year Term

                                      Vote for Five

Precinct                 1       2        3       4     5       6          7    Total
Blanks                  623     594      586     618   619     674        661   4375
Jackie Belf-Becker      311     256      256     302   295     292        304   2016
Judith R. Jacobi        346     279      274     342   281     325        327   2174
James E. Nye            338     274      265     353   292     323        343   2188
Thomas Michael          179     160      185     243   178     214        206   1365
Rockett
Harry C.                292     238      238     268   232     256        288   1812
Christensen, Jr.
Rose Ann Wheeler        100     101      98      106   101      92        98     696
McCarthy
Bret T. Murray          226     241      183    203    151     199     256       1459
Write-Ins                0       2        1      0      1       0       2         6
Total                  2415    2145     2086    2435   2150   2375    2485      16091




                                           53
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011




                            Moderator 1 Year Term
   Vote for One
      Precinct            1      2       3      4       5      6      7     Total
      Blanks              88     82      94    115     112    120    108     719
      Gary A. Spiess     394    346     323    372     318    353    384    2490
      Write-Ins           1      1       1      0       0      2      5       10
      Total              483    429     418    487     430    475    497    3219

                               Assessors 3 Year Term

                                        Vote for One

      Precinct            1      2       3      4      5       6      7     Total
      Blanks             102    105     110    143    139     146    131     876
      John P. Kelley     380    323     307    343    289     326    365    2333
      Write-ins           1      1       1      1      2       3      1       10
      Total              483    429     418    487    430     475    497    3219




                       Cemetery Commission 3 Year Term

                                   Vote for One

Precinct                           1        2         3       4      5      6        7    Total
Blanks                            168      174       150     173    167    198      193   1223
Rose Ann Wheeler McCarthy         313      253       267     312    262    272      298   1977
Write-ins                          2        2         1       2      1      5        6     19
Total                             483      429       418     487    430    475      497   3219




                                          54
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011




                     Board of Health 3 Year Term

 Vote for One
   Precinct           1     2     3     4     5     6     7    Total
   Blanks            130   112   127   147   125   139   143    923
   Todd Belfbecker   352   314   290   338   302   335   353   2284
   Write-ins          1     3     1     2     3     1     1     12
   Total             483   429   418   487   430   475   497   3219



              Abbot Public Library Trustees 3 Year Term
 Vote for Two
   Precinct          1     2     3    4      5     6    7      Total
   Blanks           303 293 298 386 357 371 366                2374
   Jean Y. Howe     349 298 293 330 266 308 340                2184
   Susan Indresano 313 266 245 257 236 270 288                 1875
   Write-ins         1     1     0    1      1     1    0        5
   Total            966 858 836 974 860 950 994                6438



               Municipal Light Commissioner 3 Year Term
Vote for One
   Precinct             1     2   3     4     5     6   7       Total
   Blanks              75    72   75 107 104 104 87              624
   Charles O. Phillips 223 214 251 251 217 234 272              1662
   John W. Arata       185 142 92 129 108 137 138                931
   Write-Ins            0     1   0     0     1     0   0         2
   Total               483 429 418 487 430 475 497              3219




                                 55
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                           Planning Board 3 Year Term
    Vote for Two
      Precinct             1      2     3     4     5     6     7    Total
      Blanks              332    310   313   381   355   379   347   2075
      Philip Helmes       310    270   264   305   253   285   324   2011
      Kurt A. James       324    275   259   288   249   284   323   2002
      Write-Ins            0      3     0     0     3     2     0     8
      Total               966    858   836   974   860   950   994   6438


                         Housing Authority – 5 Year Term

   Vote for One
      Precinct              1     2     3     4     5     6     7    Total
      Blanks               142   117   127   159   160   162   143   1010
      Jean R. Eldridge     335   311   291   328   268   311   354   2198
      Write-ins             6     1     0     0     2     1     0     10
      Total                483   429   418   487   430   474   497   3218

               Recreation and Park Commission 1 Year Term
Vote for Five
 Precinct               1     2      3   4       5     6   7                 Total
 Blanks               793   747    724  854     820   862 863                5663
 Linda A. Rice        324   277    269  299     263   290 321                2043
 Collins
 Sam K. Ganglani      275   234    236  269     262   286 274                1836
 Derek Y. Norcross    325   271    278  338     269   313 315                2109
 Charles Edward       315   266    256  288     232   280 300                1937
 Osborne, Jr.
 David Andrew          95    89     85  138     115   106 117                745
 Deutsch
 Gerald P. Tucker, 288      260    239  248     188   235 295                1753
 Jr.
 Write-Ins              0     1      0   1       1     3   0                  6
 Total               2415 2145 2087 2435 2150 2375 2485                      16092




                                        56
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



                      School Committee 3 Year Term
 Vote for Two
   Precinct              1     2    3     4     5  6       7    Total
   Blanks               287 233 224 261 201 236           270   1712
   Richard S. Nohelty   235 232 239 263 239 270           266   1744
   Thomas F. Connolly 268 240 243 278 262 263             273   1827
   Barton K. Hyte       176 150 130 172 156 178           181   1143
   Write-Ins             0     3    0     0     2  3       4     12
   Total                966 858 836 974 860 950           994   6438



                   Water & Sewer Commission 3 Year Term
Vote for Two
Precinct                  1     2      3     4     5     6     7    Total
Blanks                   276   216    261   333   321   321   270   1998
John P. Doane            340   320    384   318   270   317   352   2201
Bradford Nick Freeman,   349   321    291   322   269   310   372   2234
Jr.
Write-Ins                 1     1      0     1     0     2     0      5
Total                    966   858    836   974   860   950   994   6438




                                     57
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
County of Essex, ss
to Any Constable in the Town of Marblehead
Greeting:

         You are hereby required and directed in the name of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts to notify and warn the Inhabitants of the Town of Marblehead
aforesaid who are qualified to vote in elections and in Town affairs to meet at the
several designated polling places in their respective precincts in said Marblehead to
wit:

In Precinct 1 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 2 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 3 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 4 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 5 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 6 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 7 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER

On the 14th day of June, 2011 A.D. (it being the second Tuesday in June) at 7
o’clock in the forenoon then and there to bring into the precinct officers of their
respective precincts their votes on one ballot for the following Questions to wit:

Question 1:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to assess an additional $667,793.00 in
real estate and personal property taxes for the fiscal year beginning July first, 2011,
to fund Article 28 of the 2011 Annual Town Meeting for the purpose of funding the
final design, public bidding and construction for the improvements to the Old Town
House, including but not limited to making the building universally accessible.

YES_________ NO_________




                                          58
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



Question 2:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to assess an additional $656,000.00 in
real estate and personal property taxes for the fiscal year beginning July first, 2011,
to fund Article 33 of the 2011 Annual Town Meeting for the purpose of continued
water quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk assessment, engineering and any
other services related to determining the extent of clean up or remediation necessary
in connection with the old landfill?

YES_________ NO_________


Question 3:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond
issued for the purposes of funding the permitting, public bidding and construction
of a cap for the area(s) encompassing the old landfill in accordance with and as
required by applicable statutes and regulations, deconstructing the old Transfer
Station, constructing stormwater controls, constructing and/or moving water and
sewer mains, and constructing a new Transfer Station, new Recycling Drop-Off
Area, new Swap Shed, and new Yard Waste Processing Area, and funding the
acquisition of all related real property easements or other interests in real property
and including engineering, testing, legal and related costs and fees and for funding
the purchase or taking of 56 and 57 Stony Brook Road, the purchase or taking of a
portion of 55 Stony Brook Road and the purchase or taking of a temporary
construction easement on a portion of 52 Stony Brook Road, including all legal
costs, costs of remediation and costs of settlement of claims or potential claims, in
connection with those properties all in connection with the clean-up related to the
historic operations of the former landfill?

YES_________ NO_________


Question 4:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond
issued for the purpose of funding the design, project management and construction




                                          59
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


of a new elementary school for 425 students at the Glover School site, located at 7-
9 Maple Street, which shall have an anticipated useful life as an educational facility
for the instruction of school children for at least 50 years?

YES_________NO_________

For these purposes the polls will be open at each and all of said precincts at 7
o’clock in the forenoon and will be closed at 8 o’clock in the afternoon at each and
all of said precincts and you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested
copies thereof at Abbot Hall and ten (10) other conspicuous places in Town as
required by the By-laws not later than thirty (30) days after being closed.

Hereof fail not and make due return of this Warrant or a certified copy thereof with
our doings thereon, to each of the several precinct wardens at the time and place of
meetings aforesaid and to the Town Clerk as soon as may be before the said
meetings.
Given under our hands at Marblehead aforesaid this 6th day of May 2011.


JAMES E. NYE (Chairperson)

JACKIE BELF-BECKER
JUDITH R. JACOBI
T. MICHAEL ROCKETT
Selectmen of Marblehead

A True Copy
Attest: Donald Hurwitz, Constable




                                         60
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                         Commonwealth of Massachusetts
                            Special Town Election
                            Tuesday, June 14, 2011

The Number of Votes Cast were as follows:
Precinct 1     909               41.6% of 2,187 Registered Voters
Precinct 2     726               38.4% of 1,886 Registered Voters
Precinct 3     665               35.8% of 1,855 Registered Voters
Precinct 4     924               42.8% of 2,157 Registered Voters
Precinct 5     955               45.8% of 2,083 Registered Voters
Precinct 6     1,028             47.9% of 2,146 Registered Voters
Precinct 7     960               45.2% of 2,123 Registered Voters
Total          6,167             42.7% of 14,437 Registered Voters

Canvas Completed at 9:00 pm

                                     Question 1:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to assess an additional $667,793.00 in
real estate and personal property taxes for the fiscal year beginning July first, 2011,
to fund Article 28 of the 2011 Annual Town Meeting for the purpose of funding the
final design, public bidding and construction for the improvements to the Old Town
House, including but not limited to making the building universally accessible.

Precinct          1        2          3         4      5          6      7       Total
Blanks            7        7         10         8     17         13      6        68
Yes              476      270       256        365    413       439     313      2531
No               426      449       399        551    525       576     641      3567
Total            909      726       665        924    955      1028     960      6167


                                     Question 2:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to assess an additional $656,000.00 in
real estate and personal property taxes for the fiscal year beginning July first, 2011,
to fund Article 33 of the 2011 Annual Town Meeting for the purpose of continued
water quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk assessment, engineering and any
other services related to determining the extent of clean up or remediation necessary
in connection with the old landfill?




                                          61
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



Precinct           1       2         3         4      5          6       7      Total
Blanks            10       5        13         8     15         13       9       73
Yes              489      368      355        499    617       688      476     3492
No               410      353      297        417    323       327      475     2601
Total            909      726      665        924    955      1028      960     6167


                                    Question 3:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond
issued for the purposes of funding the permitting, public bidding and construction
of a cap for the area(s) encompassing the old landfill in accordance with and as
required by applicable statutes and regulations, deconstructing the old Transfer
Station, constructing stormwater controls, constructing and/or moving water and
sewer mains, and constructing a new Transfer Station, new Recycling Drop-Off
Area, new Swap Shed, and new Yard Waste Processing Area, and funding the
acquisition of all related real property easements or other interests in real property
and including engineering, testing, legal and related costs and fees and for funding
the purchase or taking of 56 and 57 Stony Brook Road, the purchase or taking of a
portion of 55 Stony Brook Road and the purchase or taking of a temporary
construction easement on a portion of 52 Stony Brook Road, including all legal
costs, costs of remediation and costs of settlement of claims or potential claims, in
connection with those properties all in connection with the clean-up related to the
historic operations of the former landfill?



Precinct          1        2         3         4      5          6       7      Total
Blanks            9        2        10         5     25         13       5       69
Yes              481      371      350        500    596       646      472     3416
No               419      353      305        419    334       369      483     2681
Total            909      726      665        924    955      1028      960     6167




                                         62
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                                    Question 4:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from the provisions of
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond
issued for the purpose of funding the design, project management and construction
of a new elementary school for 425 students at the Glover School site, located at 7-
9 Maple Street, which shall have an anticipated useful life as an educational facility
for the instruction of school children for at least 50 years?



Precinct        1        2        3        4        5        6        7        Total
Blanks          5        3        3        2        1        4        3        21
Yes             429      312      313      511      716      729      384      3394
No              475      411      349      411      238      295      573      2753
Total           909      726      665      924      955      1028     960      6167




                                         63
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


      TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD ELECTED OFFICIALS 2011 - 2012

SELECTMAN                                              Term Expires
--Abbot Hall, Marblehead, MA 01945
Jackie Belf-Becker - Chair                                    2012
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.                                     2012
Judith R. Jacobi                                              2012
Bret T. Murray                                                2012
James E. Nye                                                  2012

TOWN CLERK
--Abbot Hall, Marblehead, MA 01945
Robin A. Michaud                                              2013

ASSESSORS
--Mary A. Alley Building, Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945
John P. Kelley                                                2014
Ann Nancy McCarthy                                            2013
Douglas E. Percy                                              2012

CEMETERY COMMISSION
--Waterside Cemetery, Marblehead, MA 01945
Rose Ann Wheeler McCarthy                                     2014
Richard F. Coletti                                            2013
David M. Cashman                                              2012

BOARD OF HEALTH
--Mary A. Alley Building, Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945
Todd Belfbecker                                               2014
Helaine Hazlett                                               2013
Michelle B. Gottlieb                                          2012

HOUSING AUTHORITY
--26 Rowland Street, Marblehead, MA 01945
Jean R. Eldridge                                              2016
Robert T. Bryne                                               2015
Pamela J. Foye                                                2014
Richard M. Whitehill                                          2013




                                     64
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


TRUSTEES OF ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY
--235 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA 01945                 Term Expires
Jean Y. Howe                                                   2014
Susan Indresano                                                2014
Maura Phelan Murnane                                           2013
Phil Sweeney                                                   2013
Peggy G. Blass                                                 2012
Phyllis B. Smith                                               2012

MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSIONER
Charles O. Phillips                                             2014
Calvin T. Crawford                                              2013
Walter E. Homan                                                 2013
Wilbur E. Bassett                                               2012
Phil Sweeney                                                    2012

MODERATOR
Mary A. Alley Building, Marblehead MA
Gary A. Spiess                                                  2012

PLANNING BOARD
--c/o Engineering Office, Mary A. Alley Building, Marblehead, MA 01945
Philip Helmes                                                    2014
Kurt A. James                                                    2014
Edward Nilsson                                                   2013
James Bishop                                                     2012
Karl A. Johnson                                                  2012
Russell Beck, Appointed, Alternate Member                        2012

RECREATION & PARK COMMISSION
--Marblehead Community Center, 10 Humphrey Street, Marblehead, MA
Linda A. Rice Collins                                       2012
Sam K. Ganglani                                             2012
Derek Y. Norcross                                           2012
Charles Edward Osborne, Jr.                                 2012
Gerald P. Tucker, Jr.                                       2012




                                    65
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


SCHOOL COMMITTEE
--Mary A. Alley Building, Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                       Term Expires
Thomas F. Connolly                                           2014
Richard S. Nohelty                                           2014
Jonathan S. Lederman                                         2013
Kathleen E. Leonardson                                       2013
Eurim Chun                                                   2012

WATER & SEWER COMMISSION
--Tower Way, Marblehead MA 01945                         Term Expires
John P. Doane                                               2014
Bradford Nick Freeman, Jr.                                  2014
Wilbur E. Bassett                                           2013
F. Carlton Siegel                                           2013
R. Thomas Hammond                                           2012




                                   66
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                         APPOINTED OFFICIALS


TOWN ADMINISTRATOR
Anthony M. Sasso

AMERICAN DISABILITIES ACT COORDINATOR
Kyle A. Wiley                                      2012

ANIMAL INSPECTOR at $2,400 per year
Isabel M. Lorenco                                  2012

BUILDING COMMISSIONER AND INSPECTORS
Commissioner - Robert S. Ives, Jr.                 2012
Local Inspector - Chris Butler                     2012
Local Inspector – Dan R. Williams                  2012
Plumbing Inspector - Domingos Furtado              2012
Assistant Plumbing Inspector – Peter McCarriston   2012
Assistant Plumbing Inspector – Bradford Smith      2012
Wiring Inspector – Ronald J. Marks                 2012
Assistant Wiring Inspector – Eric F.S. Chisholm    2012

CANINE CONTROL CLERK
Robin Michaud – Town Clerk                         2012

ASSISTANT DOG OFFICERS FOR THE PARKS
Robert Gillis                                      2012
Peter James                                        2012
C. Michael Lane                                    2012
Brad Delisle                                       2012
Reggie Berry                                       2012
Mike Attridge                                      2012
Greg Snow                                          2012
Pat Sylvester                                      2012
Brendan Egan                                       2012

TOWN COUNSEL at $2,000 per year
Jeffrey N. Shribman                                2012
         Assistant Town Counsel:
         Brody, Hardoon, Perkins & Kesten          2012




                                     67
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


        Leonard Kesten                             2012
        Marc J. Miller                             2012
        Earl Weissman                              2012
        Patrick J. Costello                        2012
        Lisa L. Mead                               2012
        Francis Mayo                               2012

COUNCIL ON AGING DIRECTOR
Patricia C. Roberts                                2012

EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR
Charles P. Cerrutti                                2012

ENGINEERING AND CONSERVATION ADMINISTRATOR
William C. Lanphear                                2012

FLAG OFFICER
David C. Rodgers                                   2012

FOREST WARDEN – Term: 1 Year
Chief Jason R. Gilliland, Fire Department          2012

HARBOR MASTER AND ASSISTANTS
Charles J. Dalferro, Harbor Master                 2012
         Assistant Harbor Masters
         Webb Russell                              2012
         Daniel Roads, Jr.                         2012
         Assistant Harbormasters (Seasonal):
         Thomas Murray                             2012
         Ray Gauthier                              2012
         Jeffrey Flynn                             2012
         John Vigneron                             2012
         John Payne                                2012
         Alternates:
         Charles Cullanie                          2012
         Allen Dennis                              2012

KEEPER OF THE LOCK UP                              2012
Chief Robert O. Picariello




                                        68
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


LICENSING AUTHORITY, DULY DESIGNATED AGENTS

Police Chief Robert O. Picariello                 2012
Captain: Mark D. Mills                            2012
Lieutenants:
           Matthew Freeman                        2012
           Jonathan Lunt                          2012
           Sean Sweeney (Acting)                  2012
Sergeants:
           Nicholas Economou                      2012
           Sean Brady                             2012

          Jason Conrad                            2012

MEASURER OF LEATHER – Term: 1 year
John Smidt                                        2012

TOWN DESIGNEE MASS. WATER RESOURCE AUTHORITY
Term: 1 year
F. Carlton Siegel                            2012
Alternate: Charles R. McCollum,
         Water and Sewer Department          2012

PARKING CLERK /HEARING CLERK – Term: 1 year
Jeffrey N. Shribman                               2012

CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER
Rebecca L. Curran                                 2012

PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
David M. Donahue                                  2012

RETIREMENT BOARD – Term: 1 year
Charles H. Gessner                                2012

 “RIGHT TO KNOW” COORDINATOR – Term: 1 year
Jason R. Gilliland – Fire Department              2012

SEALER OF WEIGHTS & MEASURES
David C. Rodgers                                  2012




                                    69
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



SPECIAL AUXILIARY POLICE
Patrolmen:
          James Donovan                             2012

SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS
Robert S. Ives, Jr.                                 2012

TAX COLLECTOR/TREASURER
Patricia Kelly Murray                               2012

VETERANS’ AGENT & DIRECTOR OF VETERANS’ SERVICES
Term: 1 year
David C. Rodgers                               2012

VETERANS’ GRAVES OFFICER Term: 1 year
David C. Rodgers                                    2012

WORKERS’ COMPENSATION AGENT Term: 1 year
Massachusetts Interlocal Insurance Association      2012

TOWN ACCOUNTANT– Term 3 years
John J. McGinn                                      2013

AFFORDABLE HOUSING TRUST FUND – Term 1 year
Board of Selectmen                                  2012
Vacant, Finance Committee Representative            2012
Kurt James, Fair Housing Committee Representative   2012
Vacant, At Large                                    2012
Vacant, At Large                                    2012

ARMED FORCES LIAISON– Term: 1 year
John M. McCloskey                                   2012

BOARD OF ABBOT LIBRARY SECOND CENTURY FUND
Term: 1 year
Peter Jalbert                                       2012
Judith Eissner                                      2012
Thomas A. McNulty – resigned 5/9/11




                                70
               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


CABLE TV OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE – Term: 3 years
Nancy Marrs                                    2012
Paul Rabin                                     2012
Vacant                                         2013
Wayne Avridson                                 2013
Vacant                                         2013
Alan G. Raymond                                2014
Vacant                                         2014

CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE – Term: 3 years
Thomas Gawrys                                  2012
Edward Lang                                    2012
Victor Wild                                    2012
Joe Zelloe                                     2013
Michael Auerbach                               2013
John J. McGinn – Ex Officio                    2014

CO-CARETAKER, FORT BEACH – Term: 1 year
Jeffrey P. Flynn                               2012
Douglas Percy                                  2012

CHAPLAIN – MARBLEHEAD POLICE DEPARTMENT
Term: 1 year
Rabbi Jonas Goldberg                           2012

SURGEON – MARBLEHEAD POLICE DEPARTMENT
Term: 1 year
Dr. Jack Richman                               2012

CONSERVATION COMMISSION – Term: 3 years
Craig Smith – resigned 10/14/11
Deb Payson – resigned 10/3/11
Vacant                                         2012
David VanHoven - appointed 11/30/11            2012
Walter S. Haug                                 2012
Frederick Sullivan                             2013
Ken Fisher                                     2013
Don Tritschler                                 2013
Brian LeClair                                  2014




                             71
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


CONSTABLES for Postings in Town – Term: 1 year
Donald B. Hurwitz                                                2012

CONSTABLES
      for the Purpose of Serving Civil Process – Term: 1 year
Douglas Perry – appointed 8/24/11                                2012
Paul Minsky                                                      2012
Nathaniel C. Greene                                              2012
Thomas K. Egan                                                   2012
Richard Rockett                                                  2012
Peter Yasi                                                       2012
David Andrew Deutsch                                             2012

CONSTABLES
    Shellfish
Wayne O. Attridge – Chief Constable - 3 yr. term                 2013

Term: 1 Year
Raymond H. Bates, Jr.                                            2012
David Donahue                                                    2012
R. Thomas Hamond                                                 2012
Jeffrey Flynn                                                    2012
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.                                        2012
Jack Attridge                                                    2012
Deborah Fadden                                                   2012
Susan Hogan                                                      2012
Douglas Aikman                                                   2012
Douglas Percy                                                    2012
F. Webb Russell- appointed 11/16/11                              2012

COUNCIL ON AGING – Term: 3 years
John Crowley                                                     2012
Catherine Brown                                                  2012
Freda Hoyt McGuire                                               2012
Lisa Hooper                                                      2013
Dana Denault                                                     2013
Edward Bell                                                      2013
Joseph Dever                                                     2014
Elizabeth Michaud                                                2014
Jeanne Louizos                                                   2014




                                      72
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



DESIGN REVIEW BOARD – Term: 3 years
Ralph Khouri                                     2014

EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES COUNCIL
Term: 1 year
Jason R. Gilliland– Marblehead Fire Department   2012

FAIR HOUSING COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Paul Crosby, Marblehead Counseling Center        2012
Joan McIntyre                                    2012
Vacant                                           2012
Ann Cohen                                        2012
Don Davies                                       2012
Janet Robinson                                   2012
Bonnie Howard                                    2012
Vacant                                           2012
Mimi Hollister                                   2012
Kurt James – Planning Board Representative       2012
Gordon King – resigned 11/7/11
Dirk Isbrandtsen – resigned 11/14/11

FENCE VIEWERS – Term: 1 year
Vacant                                           2012

FINANCE COMMITTEE – Term: 3 years
David E. Harris, Jr.                             2012
Eric Cole                                        2012
Benjamin S. Berman – appointed 6/8/11            2012
Patricia Moore                                   2013
Matthew Herring                                  2013
Lisa Louden                                      2013
Moses Grader                                     2014
Vacant                                           2014
W. Paul Pruett – appointed 6/8/11                2014
Robert Ross – Clerk

FIREWORKS COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Alexander Falk                                   2012




                                  73
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


FORT SEWALL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Vacant, Marblehead Museum and Historical Society   2012
Joyce Booth, Historical Commission                 2012
Ed Lang                                            2012
Brenda Arnold (OMIA Rep.)                          2012
Vacant (OHDC Rep.)                                 2012
Lloyd H. Caswell, Disabilities Commission          2012
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner                    2012
Derek Norcross, Recreation and Parks Department    2012
Larry Sands, Glover’s Regiment                     2012
Philip F. Norcross, Citizen at Large               2012

HARBORS & WATERS BOARD – Term: 1 year
John Doub                                          2012
Gary P. Gregory                                    2012
Jay Michaud                                        2012
Kenneth Breen                                      2012
Paul N. Williams                                   2012
Alternates:
                 Vacant                            2012
                 Paul Stevens                      2012
                 Spencer Moore                     2012

HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
TEAM - Term: 1 year
Charles P. Cerrutti, Emergency Management Director 2012
William Lanphear
Engineering and Conservation Administrator         2012
Charles R. McCollum
Superintendent, Water and Sewer Dept.              2012
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner                    2012
William E. Conly, Historical Commission            2012

HISTORIAN – Term: 1 year
Elizabeth Hunt                                     2012

HISTORICAL COMMISSION – Term: 3 years
Joyce L. Booth                                     2012
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.                          2012
William E. Conly                                   2013




                             74
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Vacant                                               2013
Paul C. Johnston                                     2014
Nancy Graves                                         2014
Don Gardner                                          2014

HOBBS MEMORIAL, SELECTMEN’S AGENT – Term: 1 year
Paul Crosby                                          2012

LOGAN AIRPORT, PREFERENTIAL RUNWAY COMMITTEE
Charles H. Gessner                           2012

MARBLEHEAD CULTURAL COUNCIL – Term: 3 years
Virginia von Rueden                                  2012
Georgia Murray                                       2012
Joan Hollister                                       2012
Phyllis McCarthy                                     2013
Joanne Johnston                                      2013
Vacant                                               2013
Nora Falk                                            2014
Gloria Coolidge                                      2014
Howard Rosenkrantz                                   2014

MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY ACCESS AND MEDIA, INC.
Term: 3 years
Ed Bell                                              2012

MARBLEHEAD DISABILITIES COMMISSION – Term: 3 years
Carol Arnould                                        2012
Fraffie Welch                                        2012
Mary Levine                                          2012
Andrea Mountain                                      2013
Patricia Sullivan                                    2013
(Elected Official rotating)                          2013
Lloyd Caswell                                        2014
Katie Farrell                                        2014
Laurie Blaisdell – appointed 12/12/11                2014

MARBLEHEAD FOREVER COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Fraffie Welch                                        2012
Andrew G. Christensen – appointed 7/27/11            2012




                               75
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Linda W. Doliber - appointed 7/27/11                 2012
Kerry O’Shaughnessy – appointed 7/27/11              2012
Kyle A. Wiley – appointed 7/27/11                    2012

MASSACHUSETTS ETHICS COMMISSION
MUNICIPAL LIAISON
Jeffrey N. Shribman                                  2012

MBTA ADVISORY BOARD – Term: 1 year
John Heffernan                                       2012

METROPOLITAN AREA PLANNING COUNCIL - Term: 3 years
James E. Bishop                                    2014
Rebecca L. Curran, Alternate                       2014

OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISSION
         Term: 1 year
Cheryl Boots                                         2012
F. Reed Cutting, Jr.                                 2012
Thomas Saltsman                                      2012
Charles Hibbard                                      2012
Sally Sands                                          2012
Alternates:
         Julia Glass – appointed 11/30/11            2012
         Vacant                                      2012
         Bette Hunt – resigned 10/13/11

OLD BURIAL HILL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE - Term: 1 year
Zeke Peach – resigned 8/31/11
Bette Hunt                                           2012
Susan Hogan                                          2012
Richard D. Holbrook – appointed 9/22/11              2012
Pam Peterson                                         2012
Richard Coletti, Cemetery Representative             2012
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner                      2012

REGISTRARS OF VOTERS– Term: 3 years
 Robin Michaud (Town Clerk)                          2013
J. Michael Canniffe                                  2013
Joyce H. Lofmark                                     2012




                                          76
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Donald A. Doliber                                     2014

SCHOLARSHIP COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Helaine Hazlett                                       2012
Nancy Marrs                                           2012
Tom Despres                                           2012
Deborah Green                                         2012
Sara Foster                                           2012
Mary Ellen Hart                                       2012
Julie Rowe                                            2012
Gregory Maass, School Superintendent                  2012

SIGN CULLER – Term: 1 year
Vacant                                                2012

SISTER CITY LIAISON – Grasse, France – Term: 1 year
Myriam Zuber                                          2012

SMART GROWTH COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Vacant                                                2012
Kurt James                                            2012
Vacant                                                2012
Michael McCloskey                                     2012
Don Morgan                                            2012
William L. Woodfin, II                                2012
Judith R. Jacobi                                      2012
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner                       2012

TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION – Term: 1 year
Helaine Hazlett                                       2012
Ann Marie Hunter                                      2012
Harvey Michaels                                       2012
Deacon John E. Whipple                                2012
Monica Tecca                                          2012
Melissa Volk Aizanman                                 2012
Judy Luise                                            2012
Loren Weston                                          2012
Ben Katzman                                           2012
Michael Harper – appointed 5/25/11                    2012
Chief Robert Picariello, Ex-officio                   2012




                                  77
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



TAXATION AID COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Patricia C. Roberts                                           2012
Pamela Foye                                                   2012
Vacant                                                        2012
Patricia Kelly Murray, Treasurer                              2012
John Kelley, Chairman Board of Assessors                      2012

TOWN PHYSICIAN – Term: 1 year
Quadrant Health Strategies                                    2012

TRAFFIC & SAFETY ADVISORY COMMITTEE -Term: 1 year
John P. Doane                                                 2012
Brian Hitchcock                                               2012
F. Carlton Siegel                                             2012
Chief Jason R. Gilliland – Fire Department – Ex Officio       2012
Chief Robert O. Picariello – Police Department – Ex Officio   2012

TREE WARDEN - Term: 3 years
Doug Gordon                                                   2012

ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS – Term: 5 years
Robert Schaeffner                                             2015
William R. Moriarty                                           2014
David Tubridy                                                 2014
Alan Lipkind                                                  2013
Vacant                                                        2012
Barbara Shefftz – resigned 10/13/11
     Alternates – Term: 1 year
     Paige Hintlian                                           2012
     Christopher T. Casey                                     2012
     Bruce Krasker                                            2012
     Vacant                                                   2012




                                  78
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


      Vital Records 2011


     Births Recorded - 135


    Marriages Recorded - 58


     Deaths Recorded – 135




              79
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                        ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY

In 2011, the Abbot Library continued to make progress on two major fronts – the
development of the Library as a destination and venue for community members of
all ages, and the further enhancement of online services and access to electronic
content.

The architectural firm of Arrowstreet, Inc. was chosen to provide professional
design expertise as the Marblehead High School Architecture students worked on
the re-design of the Library’s teen space. Scott Pollack, one of Arrowstreet’s
Principals, and Lawrence Spang, an Associate Principal at the firm, along with High
School Art Teacher, Catherine Landergan, and Library Director, Patricia Rogers,
regularly met with the students, to guide their exploration of options and their
production of conceptual designs. We are grateful to the Killam Fund for its
support of this first phase of the Teen Space Design Project, and we deeply
appreciate the generosity of the FMPS (Friends of the Marblehead Schools) in
awarding Ms. Landergan a grant to fund the design development phase of the
Project, in second semester 2012.

Our focus upon improved space for teens presented a natural opportunity to review
the adjacent lower level spaces and their configuration. Arrowstreet’s Pollack and
Stang facilitated the Trustees’ consideration of several alternative schemes for the
use of the Library’s existing spaces. At the conclusion of this process, the current
locations of the Children’s Room, teen space (Young Adult Room), Meeting Room
and Gallery were judged to be the best locations for each function. Having made
this decision, we now will proceed to make improvements to the Children’s Room
and other lower level spaces, in 2012, to better support both traditional and forward-
looking services.

Our Meeting Room and Gallery have served us well in the expansion of Library-
originated programs and exhibits. We thank the Friends of the Library for their help
in funding many of our programs for adults, teens and children. We also have
presented several events in collaboration with other Marblehead institutions and
organizations, including Marblehead High School, Marblehead Veterans Middle
School, the Marblehead Historical Museum and Society, and the Marblehead
Conservancy.

In May, we hosted the Third Annual High School Senior Art Exhibit at the Abbot
Library, filling the Meeting Room and the Virginia A. Carten Gallery with work in




                                         80
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


all media by the graduating senior art majors. The location of this exhibit in the
Library continues to provide an ideal opportunity for the community to view the
extraordinary talent of these young artists.

This year, seventh-grade English teachers from MVMS worked with the Library to
extend the graphic novel curriculum unit initiated together last year, to include the
entire seventh grade. As before, the students studied examples of the graphic novel
genre at the Library, produced their own graphic novel interpretations of short
stories read during the year, and, in June, attended a program, at the Library,
featuring a panel of four published graphic novelists. We would like to thank the
Killam Fund for helping make this innovative project possible.

In September, thanks to the generous support of the Harold B. and Elizabeth L.
Shattuck Fund, the Abbot Library and the Marblehead Historical Museum partnered
for the first time to present an exhibit, “Fishing and Shoemaking in Old
Marblehead,” and related programming. The exhibit, which mainly consisted of
charming images and artifacts from the Museum’s collections, also showcased a
wonderful model of a nineteenth-century Marblehead ship and dock, presented to
the Library in 1950. Two talks, one on John Greenleaf Whittier, who had many
fascinating connections with Marblehead, and one by local author Bob Booth on his
book, “Death of an Empire: the Rise and Murderous Fall of Salem,” brought large
audiences to the Meeting Room and adjoining Gallery, while the “Fishing and
Shoemaking” exhibit was on view.

In early October, culminating more than a year of planning, the Marblehead
Conservancy and the Abbot Library jointly presented an illustrated lecture by
renowned expert on naturalistic gardening Douglas Tallamy, Professor and Chair of
Entomology and Wildlife Ecology at the University of Delaware and author of the
award-winning book, “Bringing Nature Home: How You Can Sustain Wildlife with
Native Plants.” Over one hundred people attended Tallamy’s talk, along with the
public reception for the related exhibit, in the Library’s Carten Gallery, of
spectacular photographs of butterflies and insects, by Marblehead photographer
Dennis Curtin, and elegant wildflower prints by Ipswich artist and naturalist Erika
Sonder. Funds from the Elizabeth J. Houghton Memorial Account provided the
Library’s portion of this co-sponsored event. Beth Houghton was a very active
member of the Conservancy during her time in Marblehead.

Another mutually beneficial Library-Conservancy collaboration, begun this year,
focuses on the development of collections of Library materials in four subject areas
related to the Conservancy’s mission: “The Community and Conservation:




                                         81
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Marblehead’s Open Spaces”; “The Value of Nature”; “The Importance of Native
Plants”; and “Wetlands, Shorelines, Watersheds and Marshes.” The Conservancy
has donated funds to the Library and is providing suggestions of titles for the
Library to acquire. Volumes purchased through this project bear a special
bookplate designed by Jay Johnson, an exceptional artist who has illustrated many
Conservancy publications.

At the same time as all these developments continue to strengthen the Library’s role
as a community gathering place, we also are actively enhancing service to patrons
whose interest is in the use of the Internet at the Library or who wish to access and
download electronic content

During the summer, NOBLE (North of Boston Library Exchange) implemented a
change in Internet provider for its member libraries. A transition from Verizon’s
private, dedicated network to Comcast Business Class Service was accomplished,
increasing band width and response speed for all of our public computers.

In the fall, negotiations between Amazon and Overdrive, the main company
providing downloadable audio books and eBooks to libraries, resulted in the
expansion of Overdrive’s downloadable eBook service to include Kindles. As
Kindles are the most widely-owned eBook readers, this was very welcome news,
and we have seen the number of Overdrive eBook downloads increasing steadily.
As in past years, the Second Century Fund has kindly provided funding for our
Overdrive subscription.

In 2012, the Abbot Library will join the other libraries of NOBLE in moving from
Millennium, a proprietary integrated library computer system, to Evergreen, an
open source library software. Much time has been spent, in 2011, preparing for this
important transition, currently scheduled to go live at the end of May.

Respectfully submitted,

Phil Sweeney, Chairperson
Patricia Rogers, Director

                   ABBOT LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Phillip W. Sweeney, Jr., Chair                              Term expires 2013
Peggy Geist Blass, Vice-Chair                               Term expires 2012
Maura K. Murnane, Secretary                                 Term expires 2012




                                         82
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Jean Y. Howe                                   Term expires 2014
Susan Indresano                                Term expires 2014
Phyllis Smith                                  Term expires 2013

                         ABBOT LIBRARY STAFF

Patricia J. Rogers                             Director
Ann E. Connolly                                Assistant Director
Christine Evans                                Technical Services Librarian
Marcia Cannon                                  Children’s Librarian
Abigail Porter                                 Youth Librarian
Jonathan Randolph                              Adult Librarian
Mary Starrett                                  Senior Clerk
Elena Minayev                                  Para-Professional
Catherine Jamieson                             Library Coordinator/Circulation
Caroline Bock, Part-Time                       Program and Volunteer Coordinator
Linda Levy                                     Library Technician
Anne Thornton                                  Library Tech. Assistant
Janet Smith, Part-Time                         Library Tech. Assistant
Carole Brindamour, Part-Time                   Sr. Library Assistant
Christopher Tremblay, Part-Time                Sr. Library Assistant
Angelique Elser, Temp. Part-Time               Library Assistant
Cheryl Henderson, Temp. Part-Time              Library Assistant
Joan Kessel, Temp. Part-Time                   Library Assistant
Virginia Symmes, Temp. Part-Time               Library Assistant

                              CUSTODIANS

Richard Leahy                                  Custodian

                                    PAGES

Jordan Fowler
Kira Goldman
Holly Hayes
Adam Power
Cassandra Sprague




                                     83
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                         BOARD OF ASSESSORS


The Board of Assessors functions according to State mandated legislation. The
principal duty of the Board is to determine the “fair cash value” of all real and
personal property within the Town of Marblehead on an annual basis.

The assessing staff, under the supervision of the Assistant Assessor, and review of
the Board of Assessors performs all duties. Our primary goal is to ensure fair and
equitable assessments, administer the statutory exemptions available to the elderly,
blind, disabled, and veterans. Additionally, the department is responsible for
issuing motor vehicle excise based upon the Registry of Motor Vehicles values
provided to the assessor’s office. The assessors also administer boat excise tax
based upon the State formula and after receiving the required information from the
boat owner via the return of form 2BE, which must be filed annually at the
assessor’s office.

Under the quarterly tax billing procedure, the filing deadline for abatements is
February 1, (third quarter tax bill due date). The filing deadline for statutory
exemptions according to Massachusetts General Law is three months from the
mailing of the third quarter tax bill. Tax law and guidelines for exemptions are
constantly changing. We urge all taxpayers who may have questions regarding
abatements or exemption to contact the Assessors Office.

John P. Kelley was elected once again to a 3 year term. Mr. Kelley has served on
the Board since the 1980’s, while taking only a brief hiatus in the early 1990’s.
John was once again unanimously nominated to serve as chairman.

Assessments for the average single family dwelling increased 1.2% to $661,384 and
the median single family assessment increased 1.0% to $488,000. The average tax
bill increased 4.0% to $6,958, and the median single family tax bill also increased
4.0% to $5,134. The classification hearing held on November 30, 2011, resulted in
a single tax rate of $10.52 per thousand of value, an increase of .31 cents, based on
the vote of the Board of Selectman.

The Board of Assessor’s granted a total of $108,130 in statutory exemptions to 183
qualified seniors, veterans, and blind applicants.

The following is the breakdown of value by class and the respective tax levy as well
as the pertinent data for motor vehicle and boat excise tax.




                                         84
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



CLASS                                VALUATION             TAX LEVY

Residential         94.5554%         $4,822,272,753        $50,730,309.36
Commercial          3.9909%          $203,536,923          $2,141,208.43
Industrial          0.3517%          $17,934,700           $188,673.04
Personal Property   1.1020%          $56,201,470           $591,239.46
TOTAL               100%             $5,099,945,846        $53,651,430.29


                                   EXCISE TAX

MOTOR VEHICLE             #BILLS            TAX ASSESSED

2011 EXCISE               20,464            $2,791,440

BOAT EXCISE               2212              $151,980




Respectfully Submitted,

Board of Assessor’s                     Office Staff
John P. Kelley, Chair                   Leslie T. George, MAA, Senior Clerk II
Anne N. McCarthy, Secretary             Debra J. Long, Senior Clerk
Douglas E. Percy
Michael A. Tumulty, MAA, Asst. Assessor




                                       85
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                           BOARD OF HEALTH


The Marblehead Board of Health met in formal session on twenty eight (28)
occasions including the annual Town Meeting. Meetings were properly and duly
posted with the Town Clerk. BOH Members and staff also attended numerous
meetings pertaining to finance, collaboration, communicable disease, bio-terrorism,
tobacco control, grant application, sanitation code updates, environmental issues,
continuing education, emergency preparedness, as well as other public health
related issues of importance to the Town.

MARBLEHEAD.ORG WEBSITE
CODE RED EMERGENCY NOTIFICATION SYSTEM
News and notifications concerning public health, trash and recycling are posted in
timely fashion. This very successful media tool allows the posting of links to sites
relating to public health, emergency planning, solid waste and beach water quality.
A subscription service on Marblehead.org allows people to sign up for email alerts
regarding solid waste, recycling, public health emergencies, as well as other
important Town information.
The Code Red Emergency Notification System was implemented this past fall for
immediate emergency- related communications.

REPORTED* COMMUNICABLE DISEASES – 2011
Babesiosis                                    1
Campylobacteriosis                            9
Ehrlichiosis                                  1
Giardiasis                                    1
Group B Streptococcus                         4
Haemophilus Influenza                          1
Hepatitis A (suspect)                          1
Hepatitis C (chronic)                        10
Human Granulocytic Anaplasmosis                1
Influenza                                      1
Legionellosis                                  1
Lyme Disease                                 24
Pertussis                                      3
Salmonellosis                                  2
Toxoplasmosis                                  2
Varicella                                      1




                                        86
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


As with all communicable disease reports an extensive follow-up investigation is
conducted to determine the source and possible cause of the illness. All food-borne
illnesses (Campylobacter, Giardia, Hepatitis A, Salmonella) require public health
response.

IMMUNIZATIONS GIVEN IN OFFICE

Pneumovax (PPSV)                             5
Hepatitis A                                  1
Hepatitis B                                  1
Influenza                                    81
T dap                                        1
Td                                           4
Varicella                                    1

Due to budget cuts, both at the state and federal level, most vaccines are only
available to uninsured or underinsured adults. Immunizations are offered by
appointment only at the Board of Health office.

BLOOD PRESSURE SCREENING

BP monitoring is conducted Monday through Friday from 8:00 A.M. to 12:00 noon
at the Board of Health office by appointment only. Additionally, the Public Health
Nurse is at the Marblehead COA on most Thursdays of each month between 11:00
AM-12:00 noon to conduct a blood pressure clinic.

NORTH SHORE-CAPE ANN EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
COALITION

The North Shore-Cape Ann Emergency Preparedness Coalition continues to work to
prepare its communities to respond to public health threats and emergencies, which
include terrorism and outbreaks of infectious diseases as well as emergencies
caused by a force of nature. This coalition, established in 2004, is a sub-coalition
within Region 3 of the Massachusetts Department of Public Health regional Public
Emergency Preparedness Coalitions and meets monthly. The coalition receives
funding from a grant provided by the CDC and is mandated to attain certain
standards in emergency preparedness. The North Shore-Cape Ann Emergency
Preparedness Coalition has established a website with information for the public
and links to other sites that can provide valuable information to our residents. To




                                        87
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


date, the Board of Health has provided MDPH with 24/7 contact information,
submitted a Continuity of Operations Plan, participated in numerous drills, trainings
and conferences, trained key personnel in NIMS (National Incident Management
System) and ICS (Incident Control System), updated the All-Hazards Plan, and has
submitted a template of our Special Populations Plan. In 2008 the coalition began
the process of a multi-year Training and Exercise Plan. This plan will take us from
learning about a specific scenario to a full blown disaster drill incorporating all
hazards plans and testing of the established infrastructure. The coalition is
continuing the process of increasing our database of medical and non-medical
volunteers through our website and is offering training opportunities for these
volunteers. In the event of an infectious disease epidemic or pandemic, or a natural
disaster, volunteers will be greatly needed to assist in mass clinics, shelters or
wherever needed. Volunteers can register online and/or by calling the Marblehead
Board of Health. We urge residents to become volunteers. Please log on to:
www.nscalert.org or call the BOH at 781 631-0212 to register as a volunteer and to
learn more about our coalition.

2011 PUBLIC FLU CLINICS

October 13, 2011                             105
November 16, 2011                            108
Employee Clinic                              301
Office                                        81
Total Flu Shots given                        595

Due to budget cuts at the state level, the Marblehead BOH was allotted 730 doses of
flu vaccine for the 2011-2012 flu season. Initially, the flu vaccine was available to
uninsured or underinsured adults and all children 18 years and under. The vaccine
was administered by appointment at the office and a flu clinic was held in October
at the Village School for grades K-12. In late October, the State allowed
administration of the vaccine to anyone. In November, a public flu clinic was held.
Flu vaccine is still available at the Board of Health office by appointment.

INSPECTIONAL SERVICES

All food service and retail food establishments are required by the MDPH to be
inspected bi-annually. Additionally, walk-through inspections (a less formal visual
inspection for those establishments the Board has received complaints about, or that
are making physical changes, or to address any type of problem that may arise
during the year) are conducted at the Board of Health’s discretion.




                                        88
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



Beach samples are taken on a weekly basis from May through September. Test
results were consistently within beach testing standards set forth under 105 CMR
Sect. 445.000 throughout the summer for each of the five sites. Public and
semipublic pools are monitored for mandatory on-site quality control and proper
management as required by MA 105 CMR 435.000 Minimum Standards for
Swimming Pools.


ESTABLISHMENTS REGULARLY INSPECTED

Nursing Homes                                 2
Food Service Establishments                   62
Retail Food Service Establishments            25
Private Clubs                                 12
School Cafeterias                             4
Schools with Satellite Programs               7
Private Schools                               1
Carnivals W/3 Mobile Service Units            4
Ice Cream Trucks/Boat                         3
Mobile Food Service Trucks                    1
Hot Dog Push Carts                            1
Slush Push carts and Yogurt Push Carts        1
Year Round Swimming Pools                     1
Seasonal Swimming Pools                       5
Arts Festival Food Fair                       3
Bakeries                                      2
Caterers                                      5
One Day Permits                               10
Food Establishment Closing Inspection         8
Food Establishment Opening Inspection         8
New Business/Change of Ownership              7
Restaurant Inspections                        152
Re-Inspection Compliance                      63
Food Borne Illness Investigation              1
Fire Incidents Requiring Inspection           2
Day Camp Inspections                          16

INSPECTIONS REQUIRED




                                         89
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Water, Beach, Pool, Drain & Stream Samples            117
Asbestos Inquiry, Complaints/Removal Of               1


COMPLAINTS

Food and Retail Service Complaints            2
General Nuisance                              4
Air, Noise, and Odor Complaints               1
Housing Complaints                            16
Lead Paint Tests                              2
Lead Paint Follow-Up                          2
Exterior Sanding                              3
Radon Gas Inquiry                             2
Oil Spill Incidents                           2
Red Tide Notifications                        2
Court Subpoena                                1
Mold                                          5


NORTH SHORE TOBACCO CONTROL PROGRAM

In accordance with the North Shore Area Boards of Health Collaborative grant
requirements, one full and one targeted compliance check were conducted in 2011. The
outcomes of these checks were as follows:

Date             No. of Establishments Checked        Compliance Achieved

2/8/2011       11 establishments were checked      91% Compliance rate was achieved

10/25/2011       2 establishments were found in violation for selling tobacco without a
permit.

In addition to the compliance checks, the North Shore Tobacco Control Program
conducted two assessment/survey visits at each permitted establishment to survey and
evaluate the emerging number of Other Tobacco Products (OTP) and assess product
availability and pricing.




                                         90
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


HAWC (Healing Abuse Working for Change)
FY 2011 REPORT TO TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD

The mission of HAWC, which was founded in 1978, is to create social change by
taking action against personal and societal patterns of violence and oppression.
HAWC provides services and support to victims of domestic abuse residing in the
23 cities and towns on the North Shore in order that they may make informed,
independent decisions about their futures.

HAWC provides free, comprehensive services to victims of domestic violence and
their children including: a 24-hour hotline, emergency shelter, advocacy in courts,
police departments and healthcare settings; trauma recovery counseling for adults
and children; support groups; economic stability services; relocation and rental
assistance; prevention education in schools and communities. HAWC has five
office locations (Lynn, Salem, Gloucester, Beverly and Ipswich) with HAWC staff
out-stationed in hospitals, police departments, courts and schools. HAWC’s 24 paid
staff and 80 volunteers (after 40 hours of training) provide the following free and
confidential services:

HAWC’s staff, Board, volunteers and community-wide partners envision a world
where relationships are built upon mutual respect and partnership and where home
is a place of nurturing and renewal. Our work is rooted in an empowerment model
and we view domestic violence in the context of other social oppressions (racism,
classism, sexism, heterosexism, etc.) with the goal of altering social norms and
public policies that support them. HAWC staff members reflect the racial, ethnic,
sexual orientation, gender and linguistic backgrounds of the diverse communities
we serve. All staff and volunteers have been trained in best practices for serving
clients in same sex relationships.

Community-wide knowledge about the tactics of perpetrators prepares everyone to
recognize the warning signs of abuse and how to get help. Domestic abuse takes
many forms but its goal is always the same: to control one’s partner. Tactics of
control include emotional, physical, economic, social and sexual abuse. Name-
calling, belittling, stalking, isolating one from family and friends, intimidation, and
threats of harm are all abusive whether they involve physical violence or not.

In Fiscal Year 2011, HAWC provided the following free services:
      Hotline Calls: 385 individuals called 1,455 times for information, support
          and referrals




                                         91
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


      Counseling and support: 530 individuals received short-term one-on-one
       counseling; a total of 1,075 services.
      Support Groups: 199 people attended 7 weekly support groups; a total of
       1,045 services
      Parent/child trauma recovery: 45 children counseled, 92 services
       provided
      Legal Services: 2,463 clients received legal assistance; a total of 4,136
       services provided
      Family Law and Immigration Law Attorneys: during first four months of
       program (April – June 2011) we served 48 victims (28 family law, 17
       immigration, 4 protective orders); and 15 cases were referred by attorneys
       to HAWC’s pro bono law clinic
      High risk teams: 170 cases were accepted by 4 high risk teams for on-
       going safety planning to prevent homicide. The team reviewed cases 724
       times.
      Emergency Shelter: HAWC’s shelter assisted 31 families with 24 children
      Housing and economic stability: 28 clients received rental down payment,
       utilities payments, arrears payments, temporary housing in hotels, and/or
       short-term rental assistance along with support to find long-term housing
       and employment
      Education and training: 1,798 youth received education and training at 32
       events; another 765 individuals attended 33 community outreach events.
      The Crossroads Program at NSMC: 127 clients received 336 services
       focused on safety planning, legal advocacy, counseling, urgent care and
       other resources.


Marblehead residents served by HAWC in FY 2011:
      4 residents were supported through the 24-hour hotline
      8 residents received counseling services
      42 residents received legal advocacy services
      7 residents received homicide prevention services through a High Risk
       Team
      3 residents received HAWC hospital based domestic violence advocacy at
       North Shore Medical Center
      4 residents attended support groups
      1 resident family received shelter services




                                      92
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


If you or someone you know is living in fear of their partner, please call HAWC’s
24-hour, toll-free hotline at 800-547-1649. Contact and understanding from a
person outside the abusive relationship is often the one most important lifeline for a
person getting free from abuse. The more you know the more you see. You can
become part of the solution.

MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES
FISCAL YEAR 2011

Now in its 42nd year, the Marblehead Counseling Center (MCC) has collaborated
with the Board of Health to provide the Town counseling, education and community
service. These have afforded people the opportunity to work with highly trained
professionals on personal or community issues and concerns. Therapy is provided
to any resident or town worker regardless of his/her ability to pay a fee. Over and
above the $60,000 provided by the Health Department, MCC provided over $18,671
of free (unreimbursed) counseling services. The Center was finally approved for
full insurance coverage by MassHealth after 4 years of effort; this enabled more of
the free care to be covered for reimbursement.

During fiscal year 2011, MCC provided direct therapy to over 289 different
individuals who live in Marblehead for a total of 2,941 sessions offered for
individual, couple, family and group counseling. Therapists continued to help
seniors in their homes who, because of infirmities, could not make it to traditional
services. A support group for single parents continues to meet weekly run by MCC
in conjunction with the YMCA. In addition, the Center ran socialization skills
groups for all the fourth graders at the Charter School and taught time management
classes for seniors at the Marblehead High School in preparation for their entering
college.

Sometimes, our neighbors are hit by hard financial times and families struggle just
to survive. MCC has become the place that people can get connected with
resources that will help them, whether it is paying overdue bills, assistance with
housing, or connections to medical and dental treatment. Throughout last year 58
families for our town have received these social services from MCC’s social service
aides.

The Counseling Center has continued to encourage the development of healthy
children in Marblehead. This year the Center has been working with a small group
to develop an effective teen center. Also, Marblehead CARES, a coalition of
community leaders and teens, was formed in April of 2009 to address adolescents’




                                         93
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


high use of alcohol and other drugs; in fiscal year 2011 it began direct programming
to respond to the problem.

The Marblehead Counseling Center has always had a very strong commitment to
improving its community of which it is a part. In fiscal year 2011, the organization
gave over 400 hours as a participant in many community committees and task
forces. The Center has affiliated with the North Shore Community Mediation to
provide mediation services of all kinds in town. These include dispute resolution
for divorce, landlord-tenant, business-customer, neighbor-neighbor and others.
MCC has also begun a monthly series on MHTV which interviews experts on a
variety of mental health topics: such as anxiety, teen brain development, the stress
of single parenting and issues faced by returning veterans.

MCC will remain a vital part of our community and provide counseling, social
work, educational and community services for years to come.

ORGANIC PEST MANAGEMENT
Copies of the Organic Pest Management Regulations are available in the Board of
Health office at the Mary Alley Municipal Building at 7 Widger Road.

The Board of Health encourages residents to become educated in the dangers of
pesticide use and to eliminate the use of toxic pesticides and herbicides on private
property for the safety and well-being of your own families, your pets, your
neighbors, and our environment.

SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING

It is a constant challenge to address solid waste issues that face the town. It is a
difficult task to address the environmental and increasing cost controls placed on the
town by state and federal agencies. It is time that we refocus and substantially
decrease the amount of waste we generate and increase the amount of recycling we
separate from that waste.
      Marblehead generated 9,251 tons of trash in 2011
      Marblehead recycled a total of 2321 tons of paper, commingled material,
          cardboard, metal, and Swap Shed material out of the waste stream realizing
          diversion savings of $227,109.85.
      3,250 gallons of waste oil was collected for processing. (This includes
          town garages).




                                         94
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


        1,200 Televisions and 600 Computer Monitors were recycled.
        Two Household Hazardous Waste Days were conducted jointly with the
         Town of Swampscott. Materials were collected from over 300 households.
        Document Shredding /Recycling held every other HHW Day.


RECYCLING COMMITTEE
The Recycling Committee is a valuable volunteer resource for the Town. The
weekly “Recycling Tips” article in the Marblehead Reporter takes time and
commitment and is greatly appreciated and well read. Their staffing of a booth at
the Farmers Market selling compost and recycling bins is to be commended. The
Committee has taken a very keen interest in current and future trends and local
adherence to recycling in Marblehead. The Board looks forward to utilizing this
group of dedicated residents as we address the solid waste and recycling challenges
and opportunities facing the Town.

COMPOSTING AND YARD WASTE DISPOSAL

    2011 organic matter, vegetation, brush, wood waste generation and processing
    figures:
          Composted material: 18,500 cubic yards = 3083.33 tons.
          Spring/summer leaves & grass: 12,500 cubic yards = 2,083 tons.
          Woodchips (Town Tree Department): 5,400 cubic yards = 900 tons.
          Brush: 8,600 cubic yards = 1,433 tons.


SOLID WASTE FACILITY COMMITTEE

The committee has continued to work very hard since its appointment by the Board
of Health in the fall of 2010. After the 2011 Town Meeting and an override vote
that passed in June 2011, $15,102,000.00 was appropriated for the permitting,
public bidding and construction of a cap for the area(s) encompassing the old
landfill (in accordance with and as required by applicable statutes and regulations),
and for deconstructing the old Transfer Station, constructing stormwater controls,
and constructing a new Transfer Station, new recycling drop-off area, new Swap
Shed, and new yard waste processing area. The sum of $770,600.00 was also
appropriated for the continued water quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk
assessment, and any other engineering or services related to clean up or remediation




                                        95
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


necessary in connection with the old landfill. Basic conceptual design issues are
being reviewed by the Committee and are still being addressed at the present time.
The Board of Health expects to have the project permitted by fall of 2012.

SWAP SHED
The Swap Shed at the Transfer Station continues to be very popular and more
importantly a very useful means of re-using many different types of household
materials and appliances. The staff of hearty volunteers that operate, organize, and
perform crowd control every Saturday is to be commended. The Board wishes to
recognize these volunteers and express its appreciation for their efforts to reduce
solid waste tonnage.


In closing, the Board of Health commends its office staff and transfer station staff
for their adaptability, dedication, and devotion to their positions and to the Town.
We are continuing to work with our neighbors with the creation of the North Shore
Shared Public Health Services Program. We have been awarded a grant from the
Massachusetts Department of Public Health for the total of $325,000.00. With this
grant our long-term goals are to ensure that each community is successfully and
consistently meeting core mandates while striving to improve the overall health of
the region through regional approaches to service delivery and data-driven policy
changes.

The Board wishes to thank other Town Departments for assistance and cooperation
in the form of manpower, equipment, and other resources.               Bi-monthly
administrative staff meetings with the Town Administrator are an important and
appreciated form of support and cooperation. The Board also thanks Town Planner
Rebecca Curran.      She has helped the Health Department apply for and
administering various grants, has helped procure equipment and technical assistance
and has guided the Department with Chapter 30B Procurement issues. The Board
of Health and the Town are fortunate to have a willing and able group of volunteers
who assist in all aspects of our operation. The Board of Health thanks all those
volunteers.

HEALTH OFFICE STAFF
Rochelle Bartlett-Ayer, RN, Public Health Nurse
Roberta Cody, Health Inspector
Andrea Flaxer, Senior Clerk




                                        96
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



TRANSFER STATION STAFF
Peter Haskell, Leader Heavy Equipment Operator
Michael Louizos, Heavy Equipment Operator
Chris Monahan, Heavy Equipment Operator
Annette Louizos, Part-time Clerk
Kay Monahan, Special Clerk
Karen Patch, Part-time Clerk



Respectfully Submitted,


Helaine R. Hazlett, B.S., Chairman
Todd Belfbecker, D.M.D.
Michelle Gottlieb, M.E.M.

Wayne O. Attridge
Director of Public Health


Andrew H. Petty R.S.
Director of Public Health
(as of December 12, 2011)




                                     97
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


BUILDING COMMISSIONER & INSPECTIONAL SERVICES


The Inspectional Services Department ensures public safety, health and welfare by
regulating construction through Federal, State and Local Codes and By-Laws.

A total of 739 Building permits were issued in 2011 including those for the new
Warwick Place commercial building, and 15 new single family dwellings, of which 7
involved the demolition of an existing dwelling. The new Tedesco Country Club on
Tedesco Street was opened for business.

Based on an estimated cost of construction of $40,429,751 this activity produced fees
of $582,231 for the General Fund. In addition a total of 685 Electrical, 853 Plumbing,
and 642 Gas Fitting permits were issued which generated an additional $23,310 in
inspectional fees.

The Department also issued 176 Roofing permits, 25 Sign permits and 7 Stove
permits, which produced an additional $6240 in fees.

The Building Department, in conjunction with the Fire Prevention Office, conducts
annual inspections of public and private schools, churches and temples, day care
centers, food service establishments, nursing homes, and private clubs.

I would like to express appreciation to all of the employees of this department for their
continued fine service over the course of the year.

Estimated Cost of Construction activity for the past decade in millions of dollars
 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
 24.2 23.4 39.2 43.4 33.3 38.1 25.1 46.2 40.0 40.4

Respectfully submitted;

Robert S. Ives, Jr., Building Commissioner

Chris G. Butler, Local Inspector
Dan Williams, Local Inspector
Ronald J. Marks, Wire Inspector
Eric F. S. Chisholm, Assistant Wire Inspector




                                          98
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Domingos Furtado, Plumbing & Gas Inspector
Peter McCarriston, Assistant Plumbing & Gas Inspector
Mary A. Allain, Special Clerk
Ellen Vaughn, Data Entry Clerk
Ed Medeiros, Public Buildings
Steve Ware, Public Buildings




                                       99
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


       CABLE TELEVISION OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE

This year was relatively quiet, as the Committee monitored compliance of the
licenses of the two cable companies and saw the continuing improvement in the
operation of the Public Access Channel.

Discussions centered around the financing of MCAM and the television studio in
the High School. The CTOC voted to disperse some of the money it has been
holding in its account for these purposes, pending approval from the Selectmen.

Respectfully submitted,



Paul Rabin, Chair
Wayne Arvidson
Nancy Marrs
Ron Olson
Alan Raymond




                                     100
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                     CEMETERY DEPARTMENT


The Marblehead Cemetery Department respectfully submits our Annual Report for
the Calendar year ending December 31, 2011.

The Board of Commissioners has three members who are elected to three-year,
staggered terms. The Commission sets policy, establishes regulations and oversees
the cemetery budget.     The Cemetery Department is administered by a
Superintendent appointed by the Commissioners, who has jurisdiction over all
Town Cemeteries.

The Cemetery Department is responsible for the complete maintenance of
Waterside Cemetery, as well as, Harbor View Cemetery. The Recreation and Parks
Department is responsible for the cutting and trimming of the grass at Old Burial
Hill, Harris Street, and Green Street Cemeteries. The Cemetery Department takes
care of any other maintenance that is needed at these historic cemeteries.

For the fiscal year 2011 the sum of $298,122.10 was expended on salaries and
wages. The sum of $20,539.34 was spent on maintenance expenses. To defray the
cost of these expenditures the sum of $57,000.00 came from the Perpetual Care
Fund.

The Cemetery Department turned over to the Town Treasurer for the General Fund
the sum of $ 50,775 received from charges and fees as follows in fiscal 2011:

      Grave Fees                                              $ 41,500.00
      Chapel Fees                                                1,050.00
      Foundation and Inscriptions Fees                           8,225.00
      Annual Care Receipts                                           0.00
      Misc. & Vault Fees                                             0.00
                                                              $ 50,775.00


This Department keeps abreast with a survey of Commonwealth Communities and
Private Cemeteries as to the fees that are charged and then makes adjustments in
fees accordingly.




                                      101
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


The sum of $25,000.00 was received from the sale of lots and the sum of
$25,875.00 was received from bequests to the Perpetual Care Fund. The sum of
$15.00 was received from bequests to the Eternal Flame Fund.

There were no Gravestone Rubbing Permits issued this year. These permits cost
$10.00 and are used only at the Old Burial Hill. The total income receipts for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 2011 was $ 101,665.00.

The total number of interments for the Calendar year was 110 of which 62 were
cremations.

The Cemetery Department would like to thank Paul Gall from the Gallo
Construction Company for the work in developing more Cemetery Plots. Also
thanks to the Gerry #5 for continuing to pay for the Eternal Flame to be lit during
the summer months. Also, thank you to Eustis & Cornell Funeral Home for the
wreath hanging at the Bell Tower during the holidays.

This Department would also like to thank the Highway, Recreation and Park, Water
& Sewer, Light and Tree for their help in getting the cemeteries ready for Memorial
Day and whenever needed throughout the year.

Many thanks to the Tree Department for planting new trees throughout the
Cemetery.

During the year 2011, the Department employed Frank James as mechanic, Brian
Ware as heavy equipment operator, Christopher Phillips and Robert Delisle as
laborers, and Catherine Kobialka as office manager. We also saw the retirement of
long time employee William Stanton. Our Cemetery Board of Commissioners
consisted of, Richard F. Coletti as Chairman, David M. Cashman as clerk, and Rose
A. McCarthy.

Respectfully submitted


William H. James
Superintendent




                                       102
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                   CONSERVATION COMMISSION


This report is for Calendar Year 2011. The purpose of the Marblehead Conservation
Commission is twofold. First, to implement the safeguards specified in the state
Wetlands Protection Act, the state Stormwater Management Policy and the
Marblehead Wetlands Protection Bylaw in order to help preserve and protect the
wetlands and water resources in our Town. Second, to maintain and protect the
conservation lands held in trust for all residents of our Town. Of the six
communities adjacent to Salem Sound, Marblehead and Salem have the highest
density of population, with corresponding pressures on our open space and water
resources. The quality of life in Marblehead and its attractiveness is in part
dependent on these resources and we urge all Marblehead residents to join in our
efforts to preserve and protect them.

The Commission held regular meetings and public hearings throughout the year
2011. We continued to assist residents in their construction projects while guiding
them in their endeavors to protect the wetland resources potentially affected by their
construction. A major ongoing effort of the Commission is the management and
mitigation of pollution caused by storm water runoff. This polluting runoff comes
from streets, parking lots, driveways and lawns. Lawn chemicals, oil and coolant
leaks from vehicles, animal waste, paints disposed of in catch basins (storms drains
in our streets) - all these pollutants/nutrients eventually end up in our streams and
ocean. The effort to mitigate this pollution will require a long term change in the
thinking and actions on the part of the general public and in our approach to public
infrastructure. The Marblehead Water & Sewer Department already follows the
guidelines established by the state to mitigate stormwater pollution runoff into our
ocean waters.

The Commission reminds everyone that our ponds are all in the process of filling in
with vegetation. This is a natural process, especially with shallow ponds, and is
caused or accelerated, in part, by the inflow of chemicals and fertilizers from
abutting lawns and storm water runoff. If you live directly on one of our ponds,
please do not fertilize your lawn without guidance from the Commission.

Marblehead has exhausted (read developed) more than 95% of its buildable land.
With all the roofs, driveways, streets, parking areas and other impervious surfaces
we have built ourselves into one huge catch basin. This has exacerbated our drain
problems. All those little open fields, land depressions and pocket wetlands where




                                        103
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


storm water used to be able to collect and gently seep into the ground are, for the
most part, gone.

A major project completed in 2011 is the Lead Mills site. This site is referred to as
a Brownfields site and has been cleaned and rehabilitated so it is now available for
certain types of activity. The site is currently privately owned.

Again this year, we wish to express our gratitude to the Marblehead Conservancy
for its continuing efforts to restore walking paths in our conservation lands and for
its ongoing program to remove invasive plant species, which are strangling native
vegetation in the conservation lands. Since your Conservation Commission has no
budget or staff for managing the conservation lands, the ongoing efforts of the
Conservancy to preserve and protect these very valuable resources are crucial to the
health of these areas.

Please visit us on the Town web site, www.marblehead.org, to find information on
our meeting schedules, help with filing permit applications and accessing the
minutes of our meetings.

Respectfully submitted,
Marblehead Conservation Commission

Walter Haug, Chairman
Frederick Sullivan, Member
Donald Tritschler, Member
Brian LeClair, Member
Ken Fisher, Member
David VanHoven, member




                                        104
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                           COUNCIL ON AGING


The Council on Aging respectfully submits its annual report for the year ending
December 31, 2011.

The COA completed construction of a bocce court, funded by the Shattuck Fund. A
bocce league will begin in the spring 2012.

The Council on Aging provided programs and services to 3,183 seniors (age 60 or
more) and 2,254 non-seniors (including family members and caregivers) during the
past year. 2011 COA programs and services designed to keep elders independent,
remain healthy and stay connected with the community included:

Health/Wellness Screenings and Services: 924 health screenings and weekly
wellness clinics by the Public Health Nurse and the VNA were provided. No flu
clinics were held by the Board of Health at the Center this year.
Transportation: 7,784 rides were provided to 191 senior citizens to medical
appointments, the senior center, shopping, nursing home visits, volunteer positions
and on errands. Another 96 rides were provided to 8 individuals under the age of 60
and disabled.
Nutrition: 17,821 home delivered meals were provided to 129 homebound
individuals and 2,335 meals were provided to 294 seniors at the center. Home-
bound individuals were treated to “The Lazy, Hazy Days of Summer” by North
Shore Elder Services which included ice cream sundaes delivered by volunteers
from the Rotary Club of Marblehead Harbor. Once again, the Gerry VFA
generously provided a fish lunch at the annual picnic.
Education: 313 individuals took advantage of the many educational offerings at
the senior center including presentations on arthritis, stress management, brain
health, hearing loss, diabetes, reverse mortgages, a legal check up, end of life
decision making, osteoporosis, and health plan options. 28 seniors received
computer training.
Fitness and Exercise: 509 older adults participated in fitness and exercise classes
that included weight training, yoga, physical therapy, osteo prevention, stretching,
strength & stretch, tai chi, better balance, move & groove and Zumba. The Fitness
Center is also available with trained staff to assist those making use of the exercise
equipment.
Recreation and Arts/Crafts Activities: More than 252 sessions of bridge, Mah
Jongg, cribbage, bingo, oil painting, golf, drawing, knitting, quilting, crafts, line
dance, country line dance, tap dance, book discussion, and watercolor painting were




                                        105
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


held. The COA established sponsorship of the Seacoast Quilt Guild which meets
monthly to foster the art of quilting and is open to the community.
Travel Opportunities: The COA sponsored day and overnight trips for 126
seniors. Destinations included Atlantic City, Boston Flower Show, Patriot Place,
Arizona, Winnipesaukee Railroad, the Peabody Essex Museum and Foxwoods.
Social Events: Social events included the annual picnic and a Holiday Party at the
Gerry VFA and monthly luncheons with entertainment to celebrate the holidays and
seasons. Special events were held for Senior Center Month. The Men’s Group
celebrated its 5th anniversary and continues to grow. Speakers this year included
Dr. Timothy Johnson, Town Administrator Tony Sasso and Barry Mawn. The
VNA Care Network and Hospice underwrote the series again for the year.
Safety: The COA continues to sponsor, along with the Essex County Sheriff’s Dept
and the Marblehead Police Dept, the Marblehead TRIAD, which meets monthly at
the center. The group sponsored the Yellow Dot Program, a program on health care
fraud, the File of Life program, and weekly shredding sessions to avoid identity
theft.
Health Insurance Counseling: The COA had one trained SHINE (Serving the
Health Insurance Needs of Elders) counselor to assist senior citizens with questions
and concerns about their health insurance and prescription coverage. 78 seniors
were served.
Property Tax Work Off Program: Administered by the COA, this program
assisted 30 seniors who volunteered their services to the town in exchange for up to
$750 credit on their real estate tax bills.
Outreach: Outreach staff contacted 109 individuals to acquaint them with COA
programs and services. Referrals of seniors who may need assistance were received
from the police and fire departments and other agencies. More than 4000 referrals
were made to other agencies such as North Shore Elder Services, the Marblehead
Counseling Center and the fuel assistance program. 291 individuals received case
management and advocacy services. Farmers Market coupons were distributed to
83 individuals (an increase of 38%). A breakfast for veterans was held in
November.
Information and Referral: More than 2,900 seniors and 2,200 non-seniors
contacted the COA for information and more than 4,000 referrals were made to
other agencies. 3,000 copies of the monthly newsletter, The Old Marblehead Cod,
were distributed monthly. The COA also maintains website pages on the town
website.
Volunteer Opportunities: 116 volunteers provided 4,992 hours of service to the
COA in a variety of roles including board members, lunch servers, activity leaders,
and instructors. The Arrangers of Marblehead Garden Club was presented with the
COA Volunteer of the Year award for their work in landscaping the Center.




                                       106
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Intergenerational Events: Thirty seven seniors were assisted with snow shoveling
by students from the Marblehead Veterans Middle School and performances by
several school choruses were held.
Employment Assistance: The COA, with the help of Keystone Assoc., Clark
Willmott and five HR volunteers provided two 4-week sessions of “Wisdom
Works”. 14 individuals participated in the program. Production of sessions for
cable TV was initiated.

The Town of Marblehead appropriated $197,277 for FY12 for the COA. In
addition, the COA was awarded a Title IIIC federal grant of $21,000 for its nutrition
programs and a Title IIIB federal grant of $6,079 for its outreach program by North
Shore Elder Services for the period 10/1/11-9/30/12. The Marblehead COA was
awarded a state Formula Grant for FY12 in the amount of $30,750. The COA also
receives a monthly donation from the Marblehead Female Humane Society to fund
the part-time use of the second van and its driver for the transportation program.
The COA depends on the generous donations of Friends of the COA and some
individual donations for additional funding.

The staff of the Council on Aging is to be commended for their commitment to
serving the senior residents of Marblehead:

         Director                             Patricia C. Roberts
         Activities Coordinator               Janice Salisbury Beal
         Senior Day Center Coordinator        Jan DePaolo
         Outreach Worker                      Teri Allen McDonough
         Site Manager                         Randi Warren
         Van Chauffeurs                       Patricia Medeiros, Bob Hinch
         MOW Drivers                          Diane LeBoeuf, Virginia Power
                                              Jeanne Ventura
         Clerk                                Caryle Wildfield
         Maintenance                          John Belanger


Respectfully submitted,
Jeanne Louizos, Chairperson         Ed Bell                    Catherine Brown
John Crowley                        Dana Denault               Joe Dever
Lisa Hooper                         Freda Maguire              Liz Michaud




                                        107
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

The Marblehead Department of Public Works is pleased to submit its’ report for the
calendar year 2011.

Over the past year our employees have been very busy performing the necessary
maintenance to keep our public ways clean, clear and safe. Some of the services
provided include: pothole repair and patching, trench repair, sidewalk maintenance
and rebuilding, traffic lining, street sign installation and repair, street sweeping, and
of course snow removal.

As in the past, a major part of the Department’s funding comes from the State by
way of Chapter 90 funds. This money is used primarily for reconstruction and
repaving of our roads. This year our Chapter 90 funds went to pave West Shore
Drive (in part), Village Street (in part), Santry Road, Tidewinds Terrace, Beverly
Avenue, Bayview Avenue, Jersey Street (in part), Power Terrace, Rockland Road
Overlook Road, Puritan Road, Knollwood Road, Evans Road Ext., Tedesco Street
(in part) and over on the “Neck”, Foster Street, Ballast Lane., Kimball Street, Follett
Street, Manley Road and Corinthian Lane.

This past winter our snowfall averaged around 81”. Much of this snow was
centered around holiday periods.        Due to excellent participation by the
approximately 45 people involved in the plowing operation as well as good
equipment and maintenance, all snow was removed in a timely fashion and roads
kept passable throughout the operation.

As always, the DPW wishes to thank you the customer, for your cooperation and
understanding as we work to make improvements to the public ways. We also
would like to recognize all the other town employees who pitch in during other
major events.

In addition, this year we welcomed two new employees; Eric Fader, and Jeffrey
Maskell to our staff.


Employee                                        Occupation
David Donahue                                   Director
Arthur Graves                                   Assistant Director
Susan Hogan                                     Senior Clerk




                                          108
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Robert Nauss                          Mechanic
William Montgomery                    Mechanic
Jeffrey Maskell                       Mechanic
Frank Monahan, Jr.                    Working Foreman
Steven Magrane                        Working Foreman
Robert Mace                           Working Foreman
James DeCoste                         Heavy Equipment Operator
Eric Fader                            Heavy Equipment Operator
Jose’ Fagundes                        Heavy Equipment Operator
Dave Perry                            Heavy Equipment Operator
Robert Pollard                        Heavy Equipment Operator
Robert Titus                          Heavy Equipment Operator



Respectfully Submitted,


David M. Donahue
Director of Public Works




                                109
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                      ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT

During 2011, the Engineering Department provided engineering and surveying services
to several town boards, commissions and departments. Street line research and
determinations were provided as requested and plans were prepared. Plans and
descriptions were provided relative to new parking regulations. Working closely with the
Assessor’s office, the Engineering Department provided assistance in keeping property
ownership records up to date.

Throughout 2011, the Engineering Department provided administrative, clerical, record
keeping and budgetary support to the Conservation Commission, Planning Board and
Zoning Board of Appeals. Maps are prepared from the Town’s GIS for projects
submitted to these Boards to identify the abutters and any other parties necessary to
receive notice of public hearings. Legal advertisements were prepared and submitted to
local newspapers for projects requiring a public hearing. Numerous plans and documents
were reviewed throughout the year for projects submitted to these Boards and the
Conservation Commission. Site inspections were routinely done to verify compliance
with permits issued and to address any violations noted or reported to the department.

The department continues a long tradition of storing and providing copies of historic
survey and engineering field notes, records and plans from the Map Room at the Mary
Alley Building. These historically important records and plans are routinely needed by
engineers, land surveyors, and attorneys in the course of their work. Throughout the year,
department personnel answer hundreds of inquiries from residents and assist them with
research, and provide copies from town files.

The department continues to develop detailed electronic indices of all projects filed with
the Conservation Commission and the Zoning Board of Appeals. With the addition of a
new document scanner, numerous plans and documents have been scanned, or
downloaded from the Registry of Deeds, for electronic storage and retrieval.

Engineering Department personnel:
        William C. Lanphear, Engineering and Conservation Administrator
        Colleen M. King, Special Clerk

Respectfully submitted,

William C. Lanphear, PLS
Engineering and Conservation Administrator




                                          110
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                          FINANCIAL SERVICES


The Financial Services Department is responsible for the Town’s financial
functions, including accounting, payroll, revenue collection, budgeting, capital
financing and retirement management. The Financial Services Department is
overseen by the Town's Finance Director. The Finance Director also serves as the
Town Accountant and is responsible for the management of Information
Technology for the Town.

Within Financial Services, the Accounting office is responsible for the audit and
approval of all Town expenditures and preparation of various accounting and
financial reports required by the State’s Department of Revenue. The Revenue
office is responsible for distribution of payroll and vendor checks and collection of
taxes and fees owed to the Town. Both the Treasurer and the Collector functions
are performed by this office. The Payroll Office performs all payroll functions and
administers various employee fringe benefits, including health insurance, flexible
spending plans, 457 deferred compensation plans, and life insurance.

The department publishes a separate Comprehensive Annual Financial Report
(CAFR) for the Town on a fiscal year basis (July 1 to June 30) each year. A Copy
of the latest CAFR is available on the town’s website or by contacting the Finance
Director’s Office.

Among the more important accomplishments of the Financial Services department
during 2011 were:

        Received for the seventh consecutive year the Certificate of Achievement
         for Excellence in Financial Reporting from the Government Finance
         Officers Association. This award is only given to government units whose
         comprehensive annual financial reports (CAFRs) achieve the highest
         standards in government accounting and financial reporting. Marblehead
         was one of only 18 Massachusetts communities to receive this award last
         year.

        Completed the annual open enrollment process in May for employee and
         retiree health insurance. The Town purchases health plans through the
         Massachusetts Interlocal Insurance Association (MIIA).




                                        111
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


   Continued the management of the town’s Wellness program for employees
    covered by the various Blue Cross Blue Shield plan options offered by the
    Town. This program offered several voluntary courses related to fitness,
    nutrition, and stress management.

   Managed the Town’s Official Website (www.marblehead.org). This work
    includes managing the content of the website to ensure completeness and
    accuracy, implementation of new website features, and assisting other
    town departments with their website content.

   Managed the on-line payment option available for taxpayers to use in the
    payment of their Real Estate and Personal Property taxes, Motor Vehicle
    and Boat Excise taxes as well as Water and Sewer bills.

   Completed a capital financing on behalf of the Town involving the
    issuance of both long-term bonds and short-term notes to finance various
    capital projects undertaken by the Town. In the context of this financing
    the Town’s AAA bond rating was affirmed by the independent rating
    agency Standard & Poor’s (S&P). Marblehead is one of only 23
    Massachusetts communities to receive S&P’s highest municipal rating.

   In September 2011 the Town refunded approximately $15.8 million in
    outstanding long-term debt remaining from a 2004 bond issue related to
    the construction of the High School and the Veterans Middle School. The
    favorable interest rate climate resulted in a savings totaling $1,291,937
    over the upcoming 13 years remaining on these bonds.

   Assisted in the selection and procurement of new building permit software.
    This software replaces the outdated software used to issue various types of
    building, plumbing, and electrical permits by the town.

   Completed the merger of the town’s computer network with the previously
    separate police and fire computer network. This merger resulted in modest
    cost savings through greater efficiencies and improved network security.

   Oversaw the completion of a new actuarial valuation for the town’s
    liability related to Other Post Employment Benefits (OPEB) as required by
    the Government Accounting Standards Board (GASB 45).




                                  112
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


       Oversaw the procurement of new fuel pumps and fuel management
        software for the town.

       Continued the process of submitting to the Massachusetts School Building
        Authority for the reimbursement owed in connection with eligible school
        building project expenditures.

       Submitted all required Department of Revenue reports on schedule.


Financial Services Department Staff

John J. McGinn            Finance Director/Town Accountant
Robert Ross               Assistant Director – Accounting
Patricia Kelly Murray     Treasurer/Tax Collector
Barbara Kiernan           Payroll Administrator
Connie Ross               Assistant Revenue Officer
Dianne Rodgers            Accounting & Website Assistant
Dmitriy Vaydman           Accounting Assistant
Matthew Barrett           Retirement Administrator
Kathy Harvey              Administrative Clerk – Payroll Office
Deb Christensen           Senior Clerk – Revenue Office
Michael Milczarek         Senior Clerk – Revenue Office




                                      113
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                            FIRE DEPARTMENT


To the Honorable Board of Selectman and Citizens of Marblehead, it is with great
pride in this Department that I submit my 2011 Annual Report. Many of the
accomplishments highlighted in this report are a direct result of the commitment to
excellence by department members.

MISSION:
“The Marblehead Fire Department is committed to protecting the people, property,
and environment within our community. We shall always be responsive to the
needs of our citizens by providing rapid, professional, humanitarian services
essential to the health, safety, and well being of the community. We will
accomplish our mission through fire prevention, fire awareness education, fire
suppression, emergency medical services and other related emergency and non-
emergency activities. We will actively participate in our community, serve as role
models, and strive to effectively and efficiently utilize all of the necessary resources
at our command to provide a product deemed excellent by our citizens."

EMERGENCY & EMS RESPONSE:
The call volume for emergency services in 2011 was statistically the same as the
previous year. The Marblehead Fire Department responded to 2540 calls for
services. The majority of our emergency responses were medical emergencies.

The Marblehead Fire Department provides first response for Basic Life Support
services to the community, and we responded to 1143 calls for emergency medical
assistance in 2011. The Department currently has 38 EMT-Basics and 1 EMT-
Paramedic. Our two primary engines are certified as Class 5 Non-Transporting
Basic Life Support Ambulances. Members maintain their skills through regularly
scheduled training conducted by the Department’s Training Officer in conjunction
with Atlantic Ambulance Company. All of our apparatus and staff vehicles are
equipped with state-of-the-art cardiac defibrillators as well.

As always, the Department continues to evaluate new procedures, equipment and
training to improve patient care and service delivery to our customers. As I look to
2012, there are changes in OEMS statewide treatment protocols set to begin January
1st. These guidelines are for the treatment we provide during a medical emergency.
They will allow us to do more for our patients in their time of need.

PERSONNEL:




                                         114
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


The following personnel changes were made in 2011. Firefighter Eric Ridge left the
department for a career opportunity with the Department of Homeland Security.
Todd Burt, Aaron Handy, and Jacquelyn Popeo were appointed as Permanent Full-
Time Firefighters. I extend my congratulations to each of these department
members on their appointments, and wish Eric the best of luck in his new position.

I would like to extend a long and healthy retirement to Captain Walter Conrad and
Firefighter Ronald Borden. Captain Conrad served the Town as a Call Firefighter
for nine years before being appointed a fulltime firefighter on January 18, 1984.
Walter was appointed as a permanent Lieutenant on December 6, 1998, and three
years later, on May 27, 2001 he was appointed to the position of Captain. Walter
retired on January 18, 2011. On behalf of the Department, I want to thank Captain
Conrad for his 36 years of dedicated service to the town.

Ron was appointed as a Call Firefighter on July 14, 1980. Four years later, on May
25, 1984, Ron was appointed as a permanent Firefighter. Firefighter Borden retired
on January 4, 2011. On behalf of the Department, I want to thank Firefighter
Borden for 31 years of dedicated service to the town.

Firefighter Matthew Tina, whose National Guard Unit was activated in August of
2011 in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, returned home safely in
September. On behalf of the Department, I want to thank Matt for his service to our
country and congratulate him on his promotion to Captain in the National Guard.

I would like to extend my sincere thanks to the following people; my
Administrative Assistant Mary Levine, for her commitment and hard work
throughout the year; and our Department Chaplin, The Rev. Dr. Dennis B. Calhoun,
who is always there to lend spiritual as well as moral support to the Department and
Community at anytime of the day or night.

A special thanks to the Towns Wire/Fire Alarm Inspectors, Ron Marks and Eric
Chisholm. They do an incredible job maintaining the Town’s aging fire alarm
system. I also want to express my gratitude for taking time out of their busy
schedules to assist the Fire Department with the installation of the Department’s
new radio system as well as the many other projects.

GRANTS:
This department continues to aggressively seek out any and all opportunities to
supplement supplies, training, and firefighting equipment to benefit our department
as well as the community needs. We have had great success over the past years




                                       115
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


with the Assistance to Firefighter Grants. Since 2003, the Department has applied
for this highly competitive grant and has received it every year, except for one. In
2011 we were very fortunate to receive our eighth Assistance to Firefighter Grant in
the amount of $152,721.00. These funds were used to replace an aging radio
system that did not meet the new Federal Communication Commission’s mandate,
that all radios systems be narrow banded by January 1 st of 2013. I want to
commend and thank Lieutenant Gregg McLaughlin, who serves as the Department’s
grant writer. Gregg invested countless hours of his own time writing the grant, as
well as overseeing the project through its completion.

The Student Awareness of Fire Safety (SAFE) grant was also awarded to the
Marblehead Fire Department in the amount of $4,000.00 during fiscal year 2011. I
would like to thank Brendan Sheehan, The Departments (S.A.F.E.) Coordinator, and
his staff for their steadfast commitment to educating the Town’s youth and making
them more aware of the dangers of fire.

The Northeast Homeland Security Regional Advisory Council (NERAC) approved
an Equipment Distribution Project in 2011, under the Emergency Management
discipline. NERAC announced that Marblehead was eligible to select up to
$16,000.00 of emergency response equipment and supplies from the NERAC
Equipment Distribution Project. This funding was made possible through the
NERAC allocation under FFY07 Homeland Security Funding. We will soon take
delivery of five trash pumps, six Cyanide Detectors, and three Multi Gas Detectors.

STATIONS & FACILITIES:
In September of 2011, we received funding to replace the roof, gutters, and
downspouts at Central Headquarters. These needed repairs will afford us the
opportunity to begin painting and repairing the damage that resulted from years of
countless leaks.

In true fashion, Department members have put forth a great effort in helping to
maintain both stations. This year, two new circulator pumps were installed on the
boiler at Headquarters and one at the Franklin Street station. We installed a new
sink and toilet in the public restroom on the first floor at Central Headquarters, and
the bathroom at Franklin Street was also remodeled. Department members also
volunteered to construct a new trash bin and a new 8 X 10 shed to help meet our
growing need for more storage. There have been many significant upgrades made
to Central Headquarters and the Franklin Street station. These projects would not
have been possible without the hard work of all the Department members.




                                        116
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


COMMUNITY PROJECTS:
We continue to benefit from the Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-Off Program
sponsored by the Council on Aging. This program has proven to be extremely
beneficial to the Fire Department. Joan Smith has volunteered her services to the
Fire Department for the past ten years, and I would be remiss if I did not recognize
the great job she does. Joan is an incredible asset and we truly appreciate her
support and friendship.

The Fire Department remains an active participant in the TRIAD Committee. The
Marblehead TRIAD Committee has representatives from Public Safety
organizations, Senior Citizens and Community Groups. The TRIAD updates our
seniors about new laws, frauds, scams, emergency planning, elderly assistance
programs and any other needs that our senior population may have. The committee
continually works to provide our seniors with information and resources. One of
our goals is to host a Safety Fair in the Spring of 2012.

The Fire Department continues to benefit from an excellent partnership with the
Marblehead Scouting Program. Chris Tufts earned the rank of Eagle Scout by
going house to house, and verifying the correct number on the house as well as
making sure that there was an affixed house number and that it was visible to
emergency response personnel. Chris is the third scout to assist the Fire Department
on such a project. On behalf of the Fire Department I want to thank Chris for his
time and effort. Chris has provided a valuable service to this community, and I have
confidence that Chris will be very successful in his future endeavors. I also want to
express my gratitude to the Marblehead Scouts for volunteering to assist the Fire
Department for the third straight year with the harbor illumination. They have done
an excellent job monitoring the flares to prevent citizens from getting too close to
the open flame, as well as preventing the possibility of grass fires. I value our
partnership and look forward to working with the Scouts in the future.

The Marblehead Firefighters 2011 Annual Toy Drive was incredibly successful,
vastly exceeding the record number of toys donated last year. I want to commend
Firefighter Matthew Tina for taking the initiative of organizing this year’s annual
Toy Drive. I would like to note that the down turn in the economy, this year was
extremely difficult for many families and we are pleased to say that with the
generosity and commitment of the citizens of Marblehead, we were able make the
holidays a little happier for many children, who otherwise would have gone without.
With the charitable donations from the Town’s many supporters we will continue to
appreciate greater success in future years




                                        117
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


The Marblehead Firefighters continued their charitable efforts by sponsoring a
Firefighters Cook-off to raise money for Muscular Dystrophy. Firefighters from
surrounding departments met at the Danversport Yacht Club to participate in a
friendly competition to prepare their favorite meals for those attending. The
proceeds of the cook-off raised over $13,000.00 for the Muscular Dystrophy
Association. I want to recognize Firefighter Tim Doane, who has taken the lead in
organizing this philanthropic event for the past three years. .

This past year the firefighters combined their fitness training with a charitable
event. They put together a team to participate in the Race Up Boston Place 41
floors Stair Climb Competition, to benefit the American Lung Association of
Massachusetts. I would like to recognize these individuals.

Rich Cutting: Age 40 Finish Time: 23 Minutes 22 Seconds
John Lequin: Age 30 Finish Time: 09 Minutes 17 Seconds
Tim Doane: Age 47 Finish Time: 18:00 Minutes
Jeff Martin: Age 26 Finish Time: 10 Minutes 36 Seconds


The Marblehead Fire Department is committed to reducing the number of child
related injuries and death by implementing a child passenger safety seat program in
conjunction with the Governor’s Highway Safety Program. Since 2009 the
Marblehead Fire Department has conducted free seat safety checks to the residents
of Marblehead and surrounding communities. Currently there is one certified
technician. Firefighter James Horgan individual has checked or installed just over
200 child passenger safety seats in calendar year 2011. In the past year, two
technicians have relinquished their certifications due to other commitments. If the
Department is unable to find replacements for them, we may have to suspend the
program until such time as we can secure enough technicians to meet the high
yearly demand.

 CONCLUSIONS:
As Fire Chief, I recognize that the greatest asset of this department is its’ forty full-
time and one part time employees. Time and time again our personnel demonstrate
to me that our fire department has the best Firefighters/EMTs on the North Shore,
and possibly, in all of Massachusetts. To each and every member, I thank you for
your continued professionalism and commitment to the people of our community. I
would also like to recognize the Civilian Dispatchers. They are a group of
dedicated and hardworking individuals, and are to be lauded for the great job they
do each and every day to help keep our community safe. In addition, I want thank




                                          118
                                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


all of Marblehead’s citizens, officials, boards, committees, and other town
departments who have come to our assistance this past year. You may rest assured
that we will continue to provide the best in both emergency and non-emergency
services in the most efficient manner possible in the future.


Respectfully submitted,

Jason R. Gilliland
Chief of Department

Type of               Jan       Feb       Mar Apr       May Jun       Jul       Aug Sep       Oct Nov Dec        Total
Incident
Carbon Monoxide         15        11         5      9     4       5     11        6       6    12    7      13      104
Problems

Structure/                  0         1      4      2     1       3         3     2       1     4    4       4       29
Building Fires
Vehicle/ Boat Fires         0         0      0      0     0       0         0     1       0     0    0       0           1

Natural Gas Leaks           9         3      4      3     2       3         1     1       3     5    4       1       39
Response
Bomb Scare                  0         0      0      0     0       0         0     0       0     0    0       1        1
Mutual Aid                  1         1      1      0     0       1         5     2       1     4    2       1       19
Response
Electrical                  8         2      4      3     4       6         5    16       5     6    3       1       63
Problems
Alarm System                6         6     19   24      26     24      14       24   12       14   11      16      196
Malfunction
False Alarms                9         8      2      1     2       4         9    24   13       20   18       2      112
Lockouts/ Lock-         11        13        15   12       7     12      13       15       9    11   13      16      147
ins
Outside Fires               0         0      0      0     0       0         0     0       1     0    0       0           1
Rescue/Medical          71        77        57   88 104       122 102 122             91 109 103            97     1143
Responses

Water/Ice Rescue            0         1      0      0     0       0         0     1       0     1    0       0           3

Motor Vehicle               7         5      3      3    11     12      12       13   11       11    8       9      105
Accidents
Severe Weather              0         0      0      0     0       3         1     5       0     1    0       0       10
Responses




                                                          119
                           MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Good Intent Call      13     6       7    8    2     3   11    7   15    9    2      15     98

Public Service Call   11    26      15   15   12    14    8   20   14   97   12       8   252

Hazmat Response        0     0       0    0    0     0    0    0    0    0    0       0     0

Assist Police          1     3       0    1    1     5    2    1    3    3    2       2    24

Smoke Scare            6     3       2    0    5     6    8    9    5    2    2       7    55
Other Hazardous       10    15      33    8   10     8    8    4    3    9   16      14   138
Conditions
                                                                                  TOTAL   2540


                                          APPARATUS
          Engine 1               2006 -- 1500 G.P.M. Pierce Pumper
          Engine 2               1998 -- 1500 G.P.M. Seagrave Pumper
          Engine 3               1989 -- 1250 G.P.M. Mack Pumper
          Ladder 1               1997 -- 75 Ft. KME Aerial Ladder-Quint
          C1                     2006 -- Ford Explorer (Chief's Vehicle)
          C2                     2010-- Ford Escape (Fire Prevention)
          C3                     2002 -- Ford F250 Pickup Truck
          Rescue Boat            2001 -- 14 Ft. Zodiac with Outboard



                  FIRE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL CHANGES
     APPOINTMENTS
     Full Time Firefighter Todd S. Burt               June 13, 2011
     Full Time Firefighter Aaron R. Handy             June 13, 2011
     Full Time Firefighter Jacqueline S. Popeo        June 13, 2011
     RETIREMENTS
     Firefighter Ronald N. Borden                   January 4, 2011
     Captain Walter F. Conrad, Jr.                January 15, 2011
     RESIGNED
     Firefighter Eric M. Ridge                       March 6, 2011




                                              120
               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                   DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL

                             CHIEF
                        Jason R. Gilliland
                 FIRE PREVENTION CAPTAIN
                        Michael A. Porter
                            CAPTAINS
  Prov. Charles P. Cerrutti      Daniel A. Rice
  Scott R. Murray                Elizabeth A. Wilson
                      LIEUTENANTS
  Adam J. Hatfield          Provisional Frank T. Monahan
  Gregg M. McLaughlin       Thomas G. Rice
                       FIREFIGHTERS
  Patrick B. Attridge         Douglas B. Knowles
  Ar P. Barcamonte
  Mark                        Karl P. Lemieux
  Ar
  Steven L. Bivens            John Lequin, Jr.
  Arthur H. Boardway          Matthew W. Lunt
  Mark S. Borowski            Gregory T. Lydon
  Todd S. Burt                Jeffrey R. Martin
  Matthew G. Christensen      Scott T. Martin
  Richard C. Cutting          Robert L. McKay
  Rick R. DiGiammarino        Matthew I. Patterson
  Timothy J. Doane            Jacqueline S. Popeo
  Mark F. Fader               Matthew J. Serratore
  Grant W. Glavin             Brendan J. Sheehan
  Jeffrey K. Greenberg        Charles W. Sprague
  Aaron R. Handy              Eric Z. Thibodeau
  Martin T. Hines             Joseph M. Thibodeau
  James M. Horgan             Matthew J. Tina
ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK            DEPARTMENT CHAPLAIN
  Mary E. Levine                Reverend Dennis Calhoun




                                121
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                                Fire Prevention

          Don’t let your dreams go up in smoke ~ Practice Fire Safety


The main objective of the Marblehead Fire Prevention Bureau is the protection of
life and property through the prevention of fire. This is accomplished by the
elimination of hazards through effective code enforcement and public education of
fire and life safety principles.

The Fire Prevention Officer works in conjunction with the Building Department to
ensure that new construction and any renovations of existing structures meet the
minimum fire safety requirements. They also perform annual inspections of every
establishment that holds a license to serve alcohol.

The Fire Prevention Officer continued to install several complimentary carbon
monoxide detectors that were still available from a donation by the Shattuck Fund
and Ace Hardware. The Council on Aging screened and provided the names of
eligible recipients.

The Fire Prevention Officer also functions as the Public Information Officer whose
duties include the dissemination of information to the media and public. He
provides information on emergency incidents, as well as providing interviews and
demonstrations on life safety issues. Weekly “run” reports are disseminated and
multiple safety interviews are organized with MHTV and other local media
throughout the year.

Company Inspections ~ In-service fire companies made approximately 650 fire
and life safety inspections during 2011.

For this year’s inspection program we printed and mailed a checklist and “person to
notify” card to all businesses and multifamily building owners prior to our annual
inspection. The checklist highlighted all of the areas and systems that are required
to be inspected each year. This advance notification allowed business and building
owners to adequately prepare in advance for our fire and life safety inspections with
favorable results.




                                        122
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the business and building owners
that filled out and returned the person to notify cards as they are an important part of
our records.

These inspections included public buildings, offices, mercantile buildings and
multi-family structures with three or more units. The In-service inspections
accomplish several objectives; the fire crews become familiar with the building
layout and they can help reduce the loss of life and property by identifying fire and
life safety violations. Any violations found were promptly corrected.

            Through our continued vigilance and your help we hope
                 to make Marblehead a fire safe community!

Fire Prevention Open House ~ The Fire Department hosted its annual Fire
Prevention Open House during the National Fire Prevention month in October.

I would like to thank Group Four, led by Captain Cerrutti, for the fantastic
demonstration they provided by “cutting” up a car with the “jaws of life”. They
demonstrated how we remove the windshield, cut off and remove all the doors,
displace the steering wheel and remove the roof to gain access to the occupant of
the vehicle. During the extrication a firefighter stays in the vehicle to reassure and
protect the occupant.

Our “SAFE” squirt house was set up and continues to be a favorite of the children
and parents alike. The children got to be firefighters for the day and extinguish the
“flames”.

I would like to thank all of the firefighters and Atlantic Ambulance for providing
valuable safety information to all the families that attended the open house. I could
not have done it without their assistance.

I would also like to thank Papa Gino’s for their continued support of our open
house. They have been providing complimentary pizzas for many years now.

2011 Results by the numbers:

   1173          General inspections of property and buildings
   46            Complaints investigated and conditions corrected
   81            Inspection follow ups
   1             Blasting complaint




                                         123
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


   104            Sets of plans reviewed
   270            Residential sale of property inspections
   118            Miscellaneous calls made by the Fire Prevention Officer, which
    included fire drills, development of fire and life safety plans, evacuation plans,
    lectures on fire safety, inspector meetings and hands on demonstrations.

    THE FOLLOWING PERMITS WERE ISSUED BY THIS BUREAU:

     Fire Alarm Boxes                                                37
     Fire Reports                                                    14
     Fuel Permit                                                     02
     Oil Burner                                                      23
     Tank Removal                                                   114
     Tank Storage                                                    54
     Blasting                                                        05
     L. P. Gas                                                       20
     L.N. Gas                                                        01
     Dumpster                                                        78
     Sprinkler                                                       12
     Welding and Cutting                                             01
     Flammable Storage                                               01
     Tent                                                            00
     Tank Truck Storage                                              03
     Demo                                                            16
     Smokeless Powder                                                00
     Black Powder                                                    00
     Tar Kettle                                                      00
     SMOKE DETECTORS
     Residential Sale of Property                                   270
     Remodel Residential/Commercial                                  83
     Commercial New                                                  07
     TOTAL PERMITS                                                  741

The Fire Prevention Officer attends all Massachusetts Fire Prevention Association
and the Essex County Fire Chief’s Association - Fire Prevention Division meetings
to keep up to date with any new regulations or any changes to the present ones.




                                         124
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



      “Fire destruction is one man’s job, fire prevention is ever body’s job.”

Respectfully submitted,


Captain Michael A. Porter
Fire Prevention Officer


                                     S.A.F.E.

The following is a report from the Marblehead Fire Department Student Awareness
Fire Education (S.A.F.E.) Program for the year 2011.
The program is made possible by a grant from the Office of Public Education. The
goal of this program is to conduct fire and life safety education programs within the
town of Marblehead using trained Firefighters as educators.
For the past fifteen years we have conducted a comprehensive Fire and Life Safety
Program with students in the Marblehead Public School district. The program
covers subjects such as Stop, Drop and Roll!, Home Escape Plans, Get Out and Stay
Out and much more.
Our goal with this program is to continue our commitment to make the Marblehead
Fire Department more than just a town department. We want to be a partner with
our community and we believe that beginning life safety education early in a
student’s career makes our community a safer place to live.
Fire Prevention Week is the second week in October and the Marblehead Fire
Department along with the SAFE Program had its annual Open House. This year,
the weather threatened to not cooperate, but the rain held off and over 200 visitors
came by to meet our Firefighters. This year Group 4 performed a demonstration of
the Hurst Rescue Tools (Jaws of Life). Thank you to Captain Cerrutti and all of
Group 4 for their support and amazing demonstration. It was a great opportunity to
show the citizens of Marblehead our capabilities and the impressive tools we use. I
would like to thank all of the Firefighters who helped set up and man all of the
demonstrations.
I would like to thank the following educators who work so hard towards the
betterment of our program: Firefighter Greg Lydon, Firefighter John Lequin,
Firefighter James Horgan; and also Captain Mike Porter for his continued support.




                                        125
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


A very special thanks to the entire Marblehead Fire Department; without their
support many of our programs would not be possible.
Thank you to all of the children for being so wonderful and to the dedicated school
staff and teachers who work so closely with us and for allowing us into their
classrooms.
Respectfully Submitted,
Firefighter Brendan Sheehan
SAFE Coordinator


                                Training Report


Members of the Marblehead Fire Department are continually training in order to
provide the best possible service to the community. Members, both on and off duty,
attend training throughout the year. Reinforcement of the basic techniques along
with learning new procedures to meet present-day challenges is the focus of the
training. Department members and outside training agencies are utilized to provide
instruction.

On-duty groups conduct daily training. Topics such as emergency medical services,
search and rescue, pumping, ladders, boat operations, vehicle extrication, hazardous
materials, surface ice rescue, and many others were conducted. The emphasis in all
training procedures is firefighter safety.

Each year Marblehead Firefighters attend training conducted by outside agencies.
Many of the classes are several days long and require members to attend while on
and off duty. Courses this past year included: Hazardous Materials Technician, Fire
Investigation, Fire Officer, Structural Firefighting Practices, and Rapid Intervention
to name a few.

In addition, the Department requires all new members to attend the Massachusetts
Recruit Training program. This is an extensive 12 week program covering over 500
hours of training. This year, Firefighter/EMT Todd Burt, Aaron Handy, Matthew
Lunt, Jeffrey Martin, and Jacquelyn Popeo completed the Hazardous Materials
Technician course which covered 160 hours.




                                        126
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


In 2011 the Marblehead Fire Department hosted the Massachusetts Fire Academy
Fire Flashover Simulator Training Program. This was a one day flashover
recognition program. The objective is to introduce the warning signs of imminent
flashover to Firefighters conducting interior fire attack. The class begins with a
lecture on the characteristics of the flashover followed by live fire evolutions inside
the Swede Flashover Simulator. This training was invaluable to all members of the
department.

I would like to thank the Athanas family for allowing us to train on their property,
and Sagan Realtors and Temple Emmanuel for the use of their conference rooms.

To all of the members of the Marblehead Fire Department, thank you for your
support, dedication, and professionalism throughout the year.


Lt. Charles Cerrutti
Marblehead Fire Dept., Training Division

                           Emergency Management

The Emergency Management Agency prepares for natural and man-made disasters.
The Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) serves as the local
branch of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). In March, 2003,
FEMA became part of the U.S. Dept. of Homeland Security.

The Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) was established by
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to coordinate emergency services with various
state, local, and federal agencies. During a state of emergency, MEMA operates
from their headquarters in Framingham, MA.

Marblehead Emergency Management was successful in securing two grants for
$3,500.00 to purchase equipment.

The year of 2011 was a continuing challenge for Emergency Management due to
natural disasters. Hurricane Irene in August was declared a “pre-landfall” state of
emergency by President Obama. This provided for 75% reimbursement expenses
related to emergency protective measures for all cities and towns in the
Commonwealth.




                                         127
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Marblehead’s Emergency Management center was activated with representatives
from all town departments in attendance. Due to the hurricane’s changing course,
the number of emergencies was reduced. This allowed emergency responders to
implement additional training for future natural disasters.

Marblehead was one of many communities within Essex County that were hit hard
by flash flooding in October 2011. Some areas received more than six inches of
rain. Essex County received Small Business Administration (SBA) loans. Teams
consisting of the Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) and US
Small Business Administration personnel surveyed impacted areas based on
information gathered by local emergency management directors and other officials.
The team looked at both businesses and residences to ascertain the damage level
that would qualify for the SBA programs. Based on the results of the data collected
on October 7, 2011, Governor Deval Patrick requested and subsequently received a
SBA Disaster Declaration.

Marblehead subscribes to Code Red Networks, an emergency notification telephone
system that allows town officials to immediately notify residences and businesses
via telephone of emergency situations and important community information. For
further information, please visit www.marblehead.org and click on the code red
logo.

Emergency preparedness is the first crucial step in facing an unexpected crisis.
Marblehead residents are encouraged to develop a home/family preparedness plan.
To learn more about planning, please visit the Federal Emergency website:
http://www.fema.gov/areyouready.

In closing, Marblehead Emergency Management would like to thank all department
heads, town employees, and residents who have provided service and support.

Respectfully,


Charles Cerrutti
Emergency Management Director




                                       128
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


           FORT SEWALL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE


The Fort Sewall Oversight Committee is a group appointed by the Board of
Selectmen and comprised of the following: Larry Sands – Glover’s Marblehead
Regiment, Chairman; Joyce Booth – Marblehead Historical Commission; Brenda
Arnold – Old Marblehead Improvement Association; Derek Norcross – Recreation
and Park Department; Lloyd Caswell – Marblehead Disabilities Commission; TBD
– Old and Historic Districts Commission Ed Lang – At large member; Phil Norcross
– At large member; and Judy Anderson – Marblehead Museum and Historical
Society. Rebecca Curran, Town Planner and Brendan Egan, Recreation and Park
Department are both ex-officio members. The board meets monthly on the third
Friday of each month at 8:30 am.

The Fort Sewall Committee continues their focus to improve Fort Sewall. In 2011
this included new lights on the restrooms that are more fitting than the lights that
were previously on the restroom building. Also, thanks to the diligent effort of Judy
Anderson we received a grant from The Society of the Cincinnati which paid for the
cost of fabricating and installing a plaque to honor General John Glover. The
unveiling of the plaque took place on Saturday July 9, 2011 as part of the annual
Glover’s Marblehead Regiment Encampment. The event was attended by members
of the Society of the Cincinnati, town officials and descents of General Glover.


Respectfully submitted,

Larry Sands, Chairman




                                        129
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                        HARBORS AND WATERS


The Harbor and Waters Board is pleased to submit its annual report for the period
ending December 31, 2011.

The 27’ Metal Shark Patrol Boat that was approved by the voters at the annual May
2011 Town Meeting was delivered in October.

The Stramski Pier Project is on schedule to be completed during the 2012 boating
season.

The Marblehead Chamber of Commerce sponsored the visit of America’s Privateer
Lynx from May 18 thru May 23. Many Marblehead elementary school children as
well as residents boarded the Lynx for a tour and a lesson on the role the privateer
played in Americas struggle to preserve its independence.

From June thru mid October the Marine Sanitation Pumpout Boat operated Monday
thru Fridays. The land based Marine sanitation pumpout facility at Cliff Street is
available seven days a week twenty four hours a day. The Harbormaster encourages
all boaters to utilize this free service.

The Harbormaster’s patrol staff responded to various calls and rendered such aid as,
towing disabled vessels, dewatering vessels, providing medical assistance,
conducting search and rescue for overdue vessels, investigated fuel and oil spills,
and removed various hazards to navigation

Special events patrolled;

July 4, 2011 Fireworks
Marblehead to Halifax Ocean Race

The Harbors and Waters Board extends its gratitude to The Board of Selectmen, as
well as all the Town Departments and their employees that provide service and
support to the Harbormasters operations.


Fair Winds & Calm Seas,
Charles J .Dalferro
Harbormaster




                                       130
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



Harbor and Waters Board Members

Gary P .Gregory - Chairman
John Doub                         Kenneth Breen
Paul Williams                     Jay Michaud


Alternate members

Paul Stevens, Spencer Moore

Harbormaster Personnel

Charles J. Dalferro               Harbormaster
Fred Webb Russell III             Assistant Harbormaster
Daniel Roads                      Assistant Harbormaster
Sandra Carney                     Office Manager

Seasonal Assistants

Ray Gauthier                      John Vigneron            Allan Dennis
Thomas Murray                     John Payne
Jeff Flynn                        Charles Cullinane


To view the Manual for Marblehead Waters as well as other harbor related
information visit our web page at www.Marblehead.org/Harbors




                                     131
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


               MARBLEHEAD CULTURAL COUNCIL


FY 2011, with $460 in our account for various reasons and $3870 allocated to the
Marblehead Cultural Council by the state, a portion of $4330 was awarded to each
of 15 grant applicants. 6 grant requests were denied for various reasons. Below is a
brief summary of the grants that were approved.

    1. Yetti Frankel returns to the Abbot Public Library with her workshop
    Recycled Words: Found Poetry and Art-Making. Attendees create a poem and
    art project using words on paper scraps salvaged from a variety of sources and
    then incorporated into a choice of art projects

    2. The Marblehead Council on Aging hosts a St. Patrick’s Day celebration for
    Seniors, age 60 or more. A luncheon is followed by a performance of Irish
    music and sing-a-long by the Glenshane Irish Folk Duo.

    3. Davis Bates and Roger Tincknell received funding for Under One Sky: A
    Multi-Cultural Celebration. An exciting program of stories and songs
    celebrating reading and cultural diversity, this 60 minute long concert is for
    children and adults in support of the summer reading program at Abbot Public
    Library.

    4. The Jewish Community Center of the North Shore received funding in
    support of its on-going project Presenting: “Live from NY’s 92nd Street Y!” - a
    program that broadcasts live world-class lectures, interviews, panels, and
    readings via satellite across the nation. The JCCNS will broadcast select
    presentations at its Marblehead facilities where the audience will have the
    opportunity to interact with the live audience in NYC. The JCC will reach out
    to the entire North Shore community to take part in the broadcasts.

    5. The Marblehead Housing Authority Resident Music Committee received
    funding in support of its Quarterly Music Program. Four one hour
    performances will be enjoyed by residents of the MHA on one Tuesday
    afternoon per quarter in the Farrell Court Community Room, Farrell Court,
    Marblehead.

    6. Delvena Theatre Company returns to the Marblehead Senior Center with a
    live performance of Jack the Ripper. The audience will have the opportunity to
    learn the details of the ghastly murders of 5 women from London in 1888,




                                       132
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


meet the top suspects in the murders, and have the opportunity to question each
of the suspects and draw their own conclusion as to who the real “Jack the
Ripper’ is. The cast opens up to the audience at the end of the show for a lively
discussion.

7. Marblehead author Julie Hahnke presents an author talk to the 7 th grade at
Marblehead Veteran’s Middle School, tying the research behind her book,
Through the Eyes of a Raptor, back to the elements of fiction, and explaining
why research is so important for writing, even if a story is fiction. The author
returns for an author lunch with 15 students who are reading the book as a book
club.

8. Marblehead Arts Association received funding in support of its 2011
Lecture and Program Series for A Musical Portrait of Ken Burns’ America. The
performer, Ken Burns’ pianist, Jacqueline Schwab, will play vintage American
music from Twain’s era (1835-1910) and beyond - Stephen Foster and Civil
War song tunes, Victorian ballroom dance tunes, and more.

9. Rita Parisi of Waterfall Productions received funding in support of Zelda,
Musings from the First American Flapper. This 70 minute, one- woman play
about the life of Zelda Sayre Fitzgerald, the wife of F. Scott Fitzgerald, presents
March, 2011 at the Abbot Public Library.

10. Threshold Singers, a group of approximately 20 volunteer singers who sing
songs and chants from a variety of cultures and traditions, received funding to
support their ongoing program to provide music for hospice patients.

11. Each spring the Marblehead Museum & Historical Society opens the Lee
Mansion and the Frost Gallery to all 3rd graders, to learn about colonial life and
folk art and fishing. Funding was awarded in support of a J.O.J. Frost coloring
book that can be given to each 3rd grader to be used as pre or post museum visit
educational materials. The book will include color photos of the paintings,
depicting early life in Marblehead and fishing on the Grand Bank, and
descriptive captions.

12. Symphony by the Sea, in celebration of its 30th anniversary, will perform 2
concerts in abbot Hall in 2011. Symphony received funding to support their
efforts to extend outreach to under-served populations by providing
complimentary tickets to those who have limited access to cultural offerings.




                                    133
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


    Recipients will be identified with the assistance of the Marblehead Housing
    Office and North Shore Elders.

    13. John Root, at the Abbot Public Library in March, 2011, presents Edible
    Perennial Gardening and Landscaping, a 90 minute interactive power point
    presentation featuring the cultivation of both novel and traditional edible
    perennial. Basic gardening tips for establishing and maintaining hardy
    perennial herbs, vines, shrubs, and trees are discussed. Participants also learn
    how to integrate the needs of plants, beneficial insects, and soil organisms
    using organic gardening techniques.

    14. Marblehead Peace Committee received funding in support of the 2 nd annual
    Marblehead Peace Poetry Festival in June, 2011. Eighth grade students selected
    by their teachers read poems about peace written as part of the 8 th grade
    curriculum. Every student who participates in the project has his/her poem
    published in a book produced by the Peace Committee. The book is distributed
    to students at the Poetry Festival.

    15. MHS Television Production Teacher, H. Christensen, received funding for
    a field trip to cover the cost of admission for 70 students to attend the Salem
    Film Festival in March, 2011.

Members of the Council this year include Gloria Coolidge, Nora Falk, Joan
Hollister, Joanne Johnston, Ava Lawrence, Betsy Morris, Georgia Murray, Howard
Rosenkrantz and Ginny von Rueden.

Respectfully submitted by,

Phyllis McCarthy
Chair, Marblehead Cultural Council




                                       134
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


           MARBLEHEAD HISTORICAL COMMISSION


We live in a unique and historic town – its places, structures, people and stories tell
the history of New England in a microcosm. Our mission is to identify, preserve
and protect Marblehead's historical assets – its places, artifacts and stories, while
making these accessible to all. We want to educate the public about and publicize
Marblehead's proud history. We also want to work with other organizations to help
achieve our mission. Finally, we fulfill our legally required obligations per Mass.
General Laws Chapter 40, Section 8d by working with the state Historical
Commission and State Archeologist.

The Commission has spaces in Abbot Hall to display and store historic artifacts,
maintain a Maritime Room Museum, a gift shop and office space for research and
cataloging items in the collection. The office, on the second floor of Abbot Hall, is
open from 10:00 - 12:00 daily. The Commission has monthly meetings, normally
on the 4th Tuesday of the month at 10:00 am and the public is invited to attend.

The gift shop is managed by Gail Gray and is staffed by volunteers. The Maritime
Room Museum is also staffed by volunteers. Both are open during the tourist
season and for the Arts Festival and Christmas Walk.

In 2011 we accomplished the following:

    1.   The Commission appointed two Associate Members: Gail Gray and
         Eleanor Rhoades to one year terms.
    2.   The Commission procured and installed two new office computers using
         money from the Reynolds Fund.
    3.   Air Conditioning units were procured and installed in the Abbot Hall Gift
         Shop and the Maritime Room Museum.
    4.   Restoration of the Abbot Hall stained glass windows was completed with a
         grant from the Shattuck Fund.
    5.   The painting “Crossing the Grand Banks”, located in the Selectmen’s
         Room in Abbot Hall was restored using a grant from the Shattuck Fund.
    6.   A Shattuck Fund grant was received to replace the Gun House doors with
         historically accurate replicas, with the work to be completed in 2012.
    7.   A Shattuck Fund grant was received to assist in the restoration of the Old
         Burial Hill graveyard.
    8.   Cataloging work continued on newly received gifts, items from the Paul
         Lausier Collection, and assisting the Town Clerk by the cataloging of old




                                         135
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


        Town documents in the Clerk’s possession.
    9.  The Commission created and mounted an exhibit of photographs of
        Marblehead, titled “Marblehead Harbor – Around the Waterfront” in
        Abbot Hall. Most of photographs are now on display at the Mary Alley
        Office Building.
    10. The Commission sponsored two lectures, one by Bob Booth about Moses
        Maverick and another by Judy Anderson about Marblehead in the late
        1600’s.
    11. The Commission issued its first educational brochure, about Marblehead’s
        Gas Stations.
    12. The Commission mounted exhibits for the Marblehead Sign Museum in
        the basement of Abbot Hall.
    13. The Commission initiated a professional redesign of the Maritime
        Museum.
    14. The Commission and Board of Selectmen approved a Letter of
        Understanding with the Marblehead Museum and Historical Society that
        will improve collaboration between the organizations for the benefit of the
        Town.

Peter Stacey has joined our group of volunteers, Wayne Butler, Chris Johnston,
Eleanor Rhoades and Richard Case who are cataloging the collection and
performing other activities for the Commission.


Respectfully submitted,

Commissioners
Joyce Booth
Harry Christensen
William E. Conly, Vice Chairman
Donald Gardner
Nancy Graves
Chris Johnston, Chairman

Associate Commissioners
Gail Gray
Eleanor Rhoades




                                       136
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


              MARBLEHEAD HOUSING AUTHORITY

The Marblehead Housing Authority is pleased to submit our annual report for the
year ending December 31, 2011.

The primary mission of the Marblehead Housing Authority is to provide decent,
safe, and sanitary housing opportunities, thereby improving the quality of life for
those of low income, including the elderly, families, and those with disabilities.

Since 1948, the Marblehead Housing Authority has carried out this mission to
provide affordable housing options to the homeless, low income families, the
disabled, and the elderly living on fixed incomes.

In 2011, the Marblehead Housing Authority worked diligently to maintain and
improve our properties and to provide excellent service to all of the households that
rely on our assistance for affordable housing.

In 2011, the MHA assisted 472 people living in our developments, managed 3
housing programs and maintained 307 units of housing located at eight locations
throughout town.

The developments are of various ages, sizes, and configurations, and are as follows:

                         1 bedroom      2 bedroom        3 bedroom          Total
Family Housing:
Barnard Hawkes Ct            N/A              12               10             22
Broughton Road               N/A              33               21             54
New Broughton Road           N/A               4                4             8
Elderly Housing
Powder House Court            38              N/A             N/A             38
Green Street Court            32              N/A             N/A             32
Farrell Court                 64              N/A             N/A             64
New Farrell Court             48              N/A             N/A             48
Roads School                  41              N/A             N/A             41
TOTAL                        223               49              35            307




                                        137
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


The Marblehead Housing Authority is “a public body politic and corporate”
authorized by State Law and regulated by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
(Department of Housing and Community Development).

The Board of Commissioners consists of four members elected by the Town, and
one member appointed by the Governor. All members of the Board serve a 5 year
term. In May, Jean Eldridge was re-elected to her 4th, 5-year term on the Board.

The Board meets regularly on the third Tuesday of each month at the community
room at the Roads School, 26 Rowland Street, and conducts its Annual Meeting and
election of officers every June.

In June, Richard Whitehill was elected Chairman of the Board; Jean R. Eldridge
was elected Vice-Chair; Robert Bryne was elected Treasurer; and Peter Russell was
elected Asst. Treasurer. The fifth member of the Board, continuing her first term is
Pamela Foye.

The Board of Commissioners is responsible for establishing policy and approving
the MHA’s annual budget.

The Board of Commissioners contract with an Executive Director who administers
the day-to-day operations of the Agency.

Although the MHA is eligible for subsidy under its contributions contract with
DHCD, at the present time the overall income from rent is in excess of the
allowable expense level, therefore the Authority does not receive a subsidy.

The Marblehead Housing Authority receives no funding from the Town of
Marblehead.

Summary of Accomplishments:
In March, construction was completed for the replacement of old, inefficient heating
systems in 76 units of family housing. Funding for this project was made possible
by a grant in the amount of $758,000.00 in American Recovery and Reinvestment
Act (ARRA) stimulus funds.

The Authority received an Agency Commendation from the Massachusetts
Chapter of the National Association of Housing & Redevelopment Organizations
(NAHRO), in the area of Resident Service for the development and implementation




                                       138
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


of a Senior Community Resource Fair. The fair brought together 12 agencies to
better inform our residents of the programs and services available to them in
Marblehead and the surrounding communities.

The Authority’s Music Committee received a $300.00 grant from the Marblehead
Cultural Council which funded a Quarterly Music program for our senior residents.

The Massachusetts NAHRO Scholarship Committee selected Heather McKenney, a
resident of our family housing development, as a recipient of a $2500.00 college
scholarship.

Capital Improvements:
2011 was a busy and productive year. The Authority continued to focus on capital
improvements, and committed funds from its operating reserve to make these
improvements. In addition to planned improvements, with a focus on health and
safety, there were several unplanned repairs that were made this year as well.

Hallway Tile was replaced in 16 hallways at Farrell Court, at a cost of $11,429.00.

Several of the slate entries were replaced at Powder House Court, costing the
Authority $3,600.00.

A kitchen upgrade was completed in one unit of elderly housing at Powder House
Court at a cost of $11,488.00.

Roof repairs and gutter repairs were made at Broughton Road, Barnard Hawkes
Court, and Farrell Court at a cost of $7,890.00.

A stone wall at Green Street Court was repaired, costing $1,135.00.

Sidewalk repairs were made at Farrell Court, at a cost of $2,950.00.

New kitchen cabinets were installed in 2 units of family housing, at a cost of
$2536.92.

Several repairs were made to boilers and heating systems, and several hot water
heaters were replaced, at a total cost of $13,759.00

An exterior deck at the Roads School was replaced, costing $9795.00




                                        139
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



Appliances were replaced throughout our complexes, as needed, totaling
$14,857.00.

                       PROGRAM MANAGEMENT

Eligibility

Anyone wishing to be considered for public housing must submit an application and
supporting documentation. The MHA conducts a review of income and assets to
determine preliminary eligibility.

The Net Income Limits for determining eligibility to state-aided housing, as
follows:

                 No. in Household:                Net Income Limit:
                     1 person                          $45,100
                     2 people                          $51,550
                     3 people                          $58,000
                     4 people                          $64,400
                     5 people                          $69,600
                     6 people                          $74,750
                     7 people                          $79,900
                     8 people                          $85,050

Assets: There is no longer any asset limit in any of the Authority’s programs. The
current HUD determined interest rate, or actual interest earned on assets, is included
as income.

Local preference is given to eligible applicants who live or work in the town of
Marblehead.

Veteran’s Preference is given for family housing and to elderly local applicants.

Applications / Occupancy Statistics

Prior to being offered a unit, the MHA conducts a thorough screening process of
applicants, including a criminal record check, landlord history, and credit report.




                                        140
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


In our elderly housing program, the Authority received 103 applications for elderly
housing during 2011, including 22 applicants that were disabled and under the age
of 60. As of the year-end, there were 91 applicants on the waiting list for elderly
housing.

There were 29 vacancies in elderly housing in 2011.

The average age of a resident in our elderly housing program is 73 years.

There are 16 residents over the age of 90, including 4 residents age 95 or older. Our
oldest resident is age 99.

In accordance with State guidelines, 13.5% of the units are occupied by disabled residents
under the age of 60.

The average length of tenancy in our elderly housing program is 7.5 years. The longest
length of tenancy is 30 years.

In 2011, the family housing waiting list remained closed, due to the number of
families already on the list, and the estimated wait.

As of the year-end, there were 119 families on the waiting list.

During 2011, there were 11 vacancies in our family housing program. .

Of the 83 units of family housing occupied at year-end, there were 72 single-parent
households (66 female head of household; 6 male head of household); and 11 two-
parent households.

There are 110 children under the age of 18 living in the family housing
developments.

The average length of tenancy in our family housing program is 6.25 years. The
longest length of tenancy is 25 years.

Rent

Residents of elderly housing pay 30% of their adjusted gross income for rent, which
includes all utilities: heat, hot water, electricity and gas. Residents of elderly
housing




                                          141
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


have on-site laundry facilities at each complex. All residents have 24-hour on-call
maintenance. The average rent paid this year by an elderly resident was $361.00.
The lowest rent paid this year was $62.00 and the highest rent paid was $1121.00.

Family residents pay 27% of their adjusted income toward rent, and pay for their
own utilities. Family residents are also given an annual heat allowance of $500.00
(two bedroom unit) or $600.00 (three bedroom unit). Family housing residents also
have 24-hour on-call maintenance. The average rent paid by a family this year was
$450.00. The lowest rent paid by a family was $17.00 and the highest rent paid was
$1426.00.

State Regulations require the Authority to process an annual Rent Recertification of
every household, to determine continued eligibility. In addition, the Authority is
required to recertify rent any time there is a change in household income. In 2011,
the Authority processed 378 rent re-certifications, including 277 annual re-
certifications and 101 interim rent changes.


Maintenance

The Maintenance Department is responsible for the upkeep of 307 units at 8
locations, ensures that the buildings are safe, responds to routine calls and
emergencies situations, and maintains the landscaping and snow removal at each
development.

In 2011, the maintenance staff completed 989 work orders, including resident
requests, inspection findings and site work. The Department also performed the
work necessary in 40 vacant units.

There were 406 unit inspections completed this year. These included an annual
inspection of every apartment, 40 move-in inspections, 22 move-out inspections,
and 26 interim inspections.


Staff Development / Employee Training

The Authority continued its commitment to staff development in 2011.

Staff attended trainings and workshops in the areas of capital planning, risk
management, financial reporting, modernization, and hoarding.




                                       142
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



The Authority also added a licensed plumber and construction supervisor to the
maintenance department.


Services to Residents

Recognizing that our senior residents in particular benefit from social interaction,
two new programs were designed and implemented in 2011.

The first was the “Joy of Eating Well and Aging Well”. This program offered
residents the opportunity to learn more about the Farmer’s Market, understand the
language of food labels, watch a cooking demonstration, enjoy a complimentary
nutritious lunch, and share their favorite recipes at a Pot Luck Lunch. The second
program was a series of talks on the History of Marblehead, Patriotism and a
Tribute to our Veterans. Guest speakers included a local historian, the Veteran’s
Agent and the Director of the Marblehead Historical Society.

The Quarterly Music Program also continued in 2011, and offered residents an
opportunity to hear professional musicians perform.

Through its Resident Service Coordination Program, the Authority continued to
identify residents that may need assistance, and link those residents to the
community resources that will enable them to live independently for as long as
possible. Our approach to resident services emphasizes partnerships with local
service agencies and programs. We identify these resources and make them
available to our senior residents. This year, 44 referrals for services were made to
the following agencies: Marblehead Council on Aging: (transportation, meals, &
outreach) North Shore Elder Services: (home making, hoarding, protective service)
Marblehead Counseling Center: (mental health), and North Shore Mediation
Services (tenant disputes).

In addition, several residents of our family housing program were referred to
organizations designed to assist them with financial assistance and parenting issues.

The Authority continued to sponsor a monthly speaker and coffee hour for the
residents of our elderly housing developments. This year, there was a variety of
programs offered, Speakers from the District Attorney’s Office, Senior Care
Options, Northeast Senior Health, Council on Aging, Farmer’s Market, Marblehead
Historical Society, Veteran’s Agent, and a local historian addressed residents.




                                        143
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



Several special events take place during the year, designed to bring our residents
together for their enjoyment and overall well being. The staff and members of the
Board of Commissioners works together to plan, organize, and participate in these
events, and these programs keep our seniors active and involved in their
community.

The Annual Cookout was held in September. This year featured a Dixieland Jazz
Band and a theme of “Mardi Gras”. About 60 residents were served a traditional
menu, with all of the food either donated by local businesses, or prepared by the
staff and members of the Board of Commissioners.

Residents enjoyed our Annual Holiday Party held in December, with live music,
caroling, and a visit from Santa. Once again, local businesses generously donated
gift certificates for the raffle, which is always the highlight of this event.

The Authority distributes a monthly newsletter to all three hundred and seven
(307) households to keep residents up-to-date on programs and general information.

As an essential part of the Authority’s leasing procedures, “Making the
Connection” is designed to acquaint all new residents with the MHA’s policies and
procedures; resident’s rights, responsibilities and obligations; rent collection policy
and any other policy that affects occupancy. In addition, new residents are provided
with a packet of information outlining the services available to them and the local
agencies and community programs that may be of assistance to them.

The Authority completed its 9th year of a Rent Escrow Program, which enables
eligible households in family housing to transition to unsubsidized housing options
in the private market. Three (3) families are currently enrolled in this program.


                       COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES

In 2011, we continued our partnership with many local agencies and community
organizations to strengthen and expand resident safety, wellness programs and
elderly support services.

The Authority held our 13th Annual Safety Program for residents of elderly
housing. This popular event is a collaboration between the Authority and the




                                         144
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Marblehead Police and Fire Departments designed to present a comprehensive
program that includes fire prevention, cooking safety, fall prevention, evacuation
procedures, personal safety and identity theft. Residents participate in an open
discussion, and are given brochures and handouts. The Authority’s “Emergency
and Safety Plan”, which is designed to keep residents and staff as safe as possible
during an emergency, was reviewed with residents.

The Marblehead Providers Group, consisting of representatives from local
service agencies and community organizations that provide services to seniors,
continued to meet each month to share information on programs and services,
collaborate, and outreach.

The Authority sponsored monthly health clinics conducted by the
Marblehead/Swampscott VNA at all of our community rooms, affording residents
an opportunity to have their blood pressure checked on a regular basis, discuss
medical conditions and have questions answered.

The Executive Director is a member of the TRIAD Council, a partnership between
the Essex County Sheriff’s Department, the District Attorney’s Office, the
Marblehead Police Department and the Marblehead Council on Aging.

The Executive Director is past president and current member of the North Shore
Executive Director’s Association (NSHEDA). This group serves 65 housing
authorities north of Boston, and sponsors monthly speakers and programs.

The Housing Authority wishes to thank the current staff, Assistant Director Debra
Larkin, Housing Manager Cynthia Palladino, Administrative Assistant Christine
Levoshko, Office Clerk Danielle Caron, Maintenance Foreman John Bonfanti,
Maintenance Plumber and Construction Supervisor Phil Raithel, and Maintenance
Department staff members Christopher Homan, Stephen Abramo, and Michael
Curley, for their dedication and hard work during the past year.

The Housing Authority also wishes to express its sincere appreciation for the
outstanding cooperation of the town departments and the citizens of Marblehead,
who supported and assisted the Authority in our efforts to provide affordable
housing for the residents of Marblehead.




                                       145
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Respectfully submitted,


Nancy M. Marcoux
Executive Director

Board of Commissioners:
Richard Whitehill, Chairman
Jean R. Eldridge, Vice Chair
Robert Bryne, Treasurer
Peter Russell, Assistant Treasurer & State Appointee
Pamela Foye, Member




                                       146
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


            METROPOLITAN AREA PLANNING COUNCIL
                 NORTH SHORE TASK FORCE

Beverly, Danvers, Essex, Hamilton, Gloucester, Ipswich, Manchester
by the Sea, Marblehead, Middleton, Nahant, Peabody, Rockport,
Salem, Swampscott, Topsfield & Wenham


During 2011, the North Shore Task Force took part in a variety of activities,
including:

           Holding a workshop that detailed Massachusetts’ long range
            transportation financing outlook.

           Conducting an MAPC Services forum showing how communities can
            receive technical assistance and coordination of energy projects
            through MAPC.

           Implemented further discussion and implementation strategies for the
            North Shore, six town Regional Development, Open space and
            Transportation Grant funded by the Executive Office of Housing and
            Economic Development. The six towns involved in the grant were
            Beverly, Danvers, Ipswich, Hamilton, Salem and Wenham. The grant
            helped participating communities become aware of overall North
            Shore community development issues and serves as a precursor for
            more regional development collaboration under MetroFuture and the
            Sustainable Communities Program.

           Partnering with the Massachusetts Emergency Management (MEMA)
            staff to conduct a regional workshop on how to plan for, draft and
            implement Natural Hazard Mitigation Plans, as well as how to
            effectively use the plan to submit successful hazard grant mitigation
            applications to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).

           Reviewing and offering input into a variety of regional transportation
            programs, including the Transportation Improvement Program, the
            Unified Planning and Work Program and the Regional Transportation
            Plan, as well as opportunities to participate in Transportation Demand
            Management and Suburban Mobility programs.




                                      147
           MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



   Hearing a presentation on the Regional North Shore Services Project.
    Eight communities — Peabody, Salem, Danvers, Marblehead,
    Swampscott, Nahant, Lynn and Beverly — have formed the North
    Shore Regional Public Health Program. The collaboration will
    enhance and supplement existing public health services, and it will
    allow for more preventative programs as communities seek to share
    services and information.

   Participating in part one of a series of workshops co-sponsored by
    MA Coastal Management, and the Massachusetts Bays Program on
    measuring and adapting to sea level rise on the North Shore.

   Hearing a presentation on the Essex County Scenic Byway final
    Corridor Management Plan by the Essex National Heritage
    Commission.

   Identifying ongoing North Shore planning and community
    development issues through Community Exchange, in which local
    planners and decision makers share key issues or developments with
    fellow NSTF attendees.

   Receiving an update on the EPA funded Brownfields Assessment and
    Re-use Planning grant in Peabody and Salem. MAPC is facilitating
    this grant which is helping to accurately assess Brownfield sites in
    both communities while involving property owners in remediation
    opportunities and re-use planning in each city.




                             148
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


         OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISSION


The Old and Historic Districts Commission (OHDC) is pleased to announce the
appointment of noted author Julie Glass. Julie brings with her a sharp mind and a
keen interest in the historic preservation of the Districts. And it was with regret but
grateful appreciation that the OHDC accepted the resignations of members Karyn
Lang and Bette Hunt. Karyn’s enthusiasm and friendly demeanor were appreciated
by Commission members and applicants alike. Bette has the wonderful ability to
call to hand the varied, and often colorful, history of buildings and people in
Marblehead. She contributed tremendously to the preservation of the Districts and
she will be missed.

In 2011 the Commission held 23 meetings and 17 Public Hearings. It granted 164
Certificates of Appropriateness and denied 3 applications. More specifically, the
Commission has been very encouraged by the efforts of some homeowners to
preserve, and in some cases, restore the historic character of their homes. 7 Fort
Sewall Terrace has been undergoing a renovation which included replacing
incompatible windows with new stylistically appropriate ones as well as restoring a
balcony and other parts of the house to the original blueprints. 126 Front Street will
soon boast a new covered front porch of a style compatible with its date of
construction circa 1875. And at long last, the General John Glover house has found
a new owner that will give this landmark the care and attention it deserves.

The Commission continues efforts to publicize exterior features which are regulated
within the Districts, and thus require a Certificate of Appropriateness (COA) as well
as exclusions that do not. Descriptions of both are included in the OHDC By-laws
that are available on the Town website http://www.ecode360.com/MA1991. A
COA is not required for general maintenance or repair of features otherwise
regulated by the OHDC if they meet the following criteria:

    1.   Repair-in-like kind work only. New construction, alterations to existing, or
         changes in material do not qualify.
    2.   The proposed repair work must constitute less than 20% of any specific
         architectural feature/element. For example, repairs to siding are exempted
         from a COA requirement if the area to be repaired (sq. footage) is less than
         20% of the total façade/elevation area (sq. footage) in the same plane.




                                         157
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


OHDC regulations apply not only to exterior features associated with buildings but
also to driveways, walks, walls, steps, fences, gates, terraces, and sheds of a certain
size.

The OHDC is organizing to go digital! A trial computer database is being compiled
that will consolidate information on Marblehead’s historic district and permit
individual buildings to be viewed and evaluated with adjacent neighbors as well as
with the entire District. Anyone who has documents concerning buildings or
outdoor spaces in the District is encouraged to bring them to the Selectmen’s office
in Abbot Hall where they can be scanned and added to the database.

Finally, the Commission would like to acknowledge with thanks the assistance of
the Building Inspector’s Office, Assessors’ Department, Town Clerk’s Office,
Engineering Department and Selectmen’s Office.


Respectfully submitted,


Charles Hibbard, Chairman
Cheryl Boots
F. Reed Cutting Jr.
Thomas Saltsman
Sally Sands
Julie Glass, Alternate




                                         158
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                            PLANNING BOARD


The Planning Board is an elected board comprised of five members and one
alternate member, each with a three year term. The current board members are
James Bishop, Philip Helmes, Kurt James, Karl Johnson and Edward Nilsson.
Russell Beck serves as the alternate member. Philip Helmes continues to serve as
chairman. The Town Planner, Rebecca Curran, oversees the board's administrative
process and provides technical assistance to prospective applicants and interested
parties.

The Planning Board meets regularly on the second Tuesday of each month and as
needed at other times. The regular meetings are held in the selectmen’s meeting
room in Abbot Hall at 7:30 PM. The agendas are posted on the town’s website and
at the office of the Town Clerk.

The planning board approves different types of development including divisions of
land to create new lots, all new non residential buildings over 700 square feet and
all new residential construction and additions over 500 square feet within the
shoreline and harbor front districts. State and local laws which govern the process
for these approvals are Massachusetts General Laws (MGL) Chapter 40A (the
Zoning Act); MGL Chapter 41, Sections 81K – 81GG (the Subdivision Control
Law); the Town of Marblehead Subdivision Rules and Regulations Chapter 258 of
the by-laws of the town of Marblehead , MGL Chapter 40A and the Town of
Marblehead Zoning Bylaws.

The planning board received one application for an incentive zoning special permit,
for ten duplex buildings for a total of 20 units including two affordable housing
units at 151 Green Street. At the end of 2011 it was still in the permit process.

Properties reviewed under the subdivision control law in 2011 include Approval
Not Required – Form A applications (ANR) at the following addresses; 10 Corn
Point Road, 11 & 13 Glover Square, Legg’s Hill Road Subdivision, 29-33 Lincoln
Ave, 4 Roosevelt/147 Elm, 55 Stony Brook Road and 31 Ticehurst Lane. Also
Frontage waivers were granted at 4 Roosevelt/147 Elm Street and 31 Ticehurst
Lane.

The planning board held site plan review public hearings at the following addresses:
1 Nahant/Corinthian Lane, 117-129 Pleasant Street, 7/9 Maple Street, 24 Foster
Street, 12 Rolleston Road, 29 Orne Street, 90 Harbor Avenue and 22 Foster Street.




                                       159
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Three of the site plan approval applications were for teardowns of existing single
family houses and the construction of new single family houses, one application
was for the tear down of existing commercial and residential building and the new
construction of a commercial development in the downtown known as Warwick
place, one application was for an accessory building to a non residential building
within the shoreline district, one for the teardown of an existing public elementary
school and the construction of a new school and two applications for additions to
existing single family homes within shoreline and harbor front district in excess of
500 square feet.

The town received two citizen zoning articles for the 2011 annual town meeting. It
is a duty of the Planning Board to investigate all proposed amendments to the
Zoning Bylaw appearing in the Warrant for any Town Meeting, and to present its
recommendations to the Town for consideration at Town Meeting. This process is
governed by Massachusetts General Law Chapter 40A Section 5. One of the 2011
citizen zoning articles proposed changing the frontage requirement from 100 feet to
75 feet and the other changed the minimum lot width from 75% of the required
frontage throughout the lot to 75% from the front lot line to the building. The board
held public hearings on the matter and felt the first amendment reversed a very
important zoning change that was made by the town in 1994. That amendment
changed the way lot width was measured from being measured at the front of a
house to be measured through the lot and thus eliminating “rat tails” and “pork chop
lots”. As a result of the hearing, the second article was amended to change the 75%
requirement to 60% as a more rational way to accomplish what the article’s
proponent was attempting. The board found that this amendment affected very few
lots and although it would have no real impact on the town, it also felt it had no
benefit to the town as a whole. The board does not believe that it is a responsible
practice to make changes to the zoning bylaw to remedy one lots zoning
deficiencies. Rather the zoning bylaw should be amended only when a chronic
problem arises that needs to be corrected, a new provision is introduced or
necessitated by law.

Planning Board members served on a variety of Boards and Committees in 2011
including Jim Bishop - Metropolitan Area Planning Council, Kurt James – Fair
Housing and Smart Growth Committee and Edward Nilsson on the Zoning Sub-
Committee.

The Planning Board thanks the Board of Appeals, especially Barbara Shefftz, and the
Building Department for their input on the Planning Board’s Zoning Subcommittee and
in the coordination and cooperation on various projects throughout the year.




                                        160
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



The Engineering and Conservation Administrator Willy Lanphear advises the board
on the adequacy of filings under site plan approval, subdivision control and other
permit processes. He also provides technical assistance to the board and to
prospective applicants. Planning Board applications are processed and records
maintained in the Engineering Department by Colleen King. The board thanks both
Colleen and Willy for their excellent work.


Respectfully submitted,


Philip Helmes, Chairman

James Bishop
Kurt James
Karl Johnson
Edward O. Nilsson
Russell Beck, Alternate
Rebecca Curran – Town Planner




                                      161
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                          POLICE DEPARTMENT


The Marblehead Police Department is pleased to submit to the citizens of
Marblehead our Annual Report for the year ending December 31, 2011.

For the year 2011 the Police Department had a total of 15,642 logged incidents
requiring police response with 365 of those incidents involving felonies. The
Department had a total of 199 arrests including 37 for protective custody.
Department officers stopped 1224 motor vehicles for various violations and issued a
total of 517 citations. There were a total of 224 reported motor vehicle accidents in
2011. Officers issued 3,095 parking tickets during 2011.

In 2011 the Police Department saw several changes in personnel. Lt. David Millett,
Sgt. Donald Decker and Sgt. Marion Keating all retired in 2011, each having served
the Department and the Town for many years. Additionally, Dispatcher Alexandria
Michaud was hired to replace Barbara Gomez.

A strategic planning committee was formed from the community and representing
several stakeholders in the Police Department. The committee met regularly
between March and June guided by Dr. Phil Devaux, a Town resident, who
volunteered his expertise in the strategic planning process. On October 12, 2011 the
Selectmen were presented with and accepted the Chief’s plan entitled “Looking
Forward, an Action Plan for the Future of the Marblehead Police Department.”
Since that time, the Police Department has been working towards implementing
each of the action items listed in the plan, in the time frame presented.

On behalf of the department I would like to thank all other departments for their
help over this past year and also thank the citizens of the Town for their support and
cooperation.

I would also like to commend the officers and staff, both sworn and civilian, of the
Police Department for their dedication and professionalism and express my most
sincere gratitude for the tremendous job they do on a daily basis.

Respectfully submitted,


Robert O. Picariello
Chief of Police




                                        162
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Police Department Personnel 2011:

Police Officers:

Chief                      Robert O. Picariello
Captain                    Mark D. Mills
Lieutenant                 David J. Millett (ret.)
Lieutenant                 Matthew Freeman
Lieutenant                 Jonathan Lunt
Temporary Lieutenant       Sean Sweeney
Sergeant                   Donald Decker (ret.)
Sergeant                    Marion Keating (ret.)
Sergeant                   Jason Conrad
Sergeant                   Nicholas Economou
Sergeant                   Sean Brady


Patrol Officers:

Arthur Buckley Jr.         Charles Sinclair
Lori Knowles               Eric Osattin
Roy Ballard                Brendan Finnegan
David Ostrovitz            Christopher Gallo
Adam Mastrangelo           Richard Alex
Dean Peralta               Michael Everett
Christopher Adkerson       Jason McDonald
Andrew Clark               Daniel Katz
Michael Roads              Daniel Gagnon
Dennis DeFelice

E-911 Dispatchers:
Supervisor Amy Gilliland
Scott Kaufman
Teresa Collins
Gregory Lapham
Nicholas Michaud
Michael Economou
Alexandria Michaud




                                        163
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Senior Clerk:
Deborah Frongillo

Part Time Clerk:          General labor:
Theresa Tauro             Charles Sinclair Sr.

Animal Control Division:
Animal Control Officer Betsy Tufts
Assistant                Laura Consigli
Assistant                Diane Treadwell

Animal Inspector:
Isabel Lorenco

School Traffic Supervisors:
Paul Lemieux              Edith Chalifour
John Spanks               Marjorie Mace
Warren Perry              Leroy Millett
Margaret Denis            Douglas Bates
Robin Reed                Earline Lemieux
Susan Page                Basil Rubin
Elizabeth Greely          Katherine Millett
Thomas Adams              Susan L’Etoile
Peter Preble              Marilyn Doane


                           ANIMAL CONTROL

The following is a summary of the calls received by animal control in 2011:

Dogs:

Reported lost/ found/loose: 441
Impounded: 80
Returned to owner: 78
Barking dog investigations: 86
Dog bites to people: 24
Dog attack on dog/cat: 16
Dog quarantine for unknown wound: 7




                                       164
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Dogs Hit by Car: 9
Dogs found deceased: 3(drowned)
Dogs in need of assistance/investigations: 41

Cats:

Reported lost: 104
Reported returned home: 45
Picked up by Animal Control: 44
Hit by Car: 11
Found deceased: 2
Surrendered/Abandoned: 23
Cat bites to a person: 11
Cat quarantine for unknown wound: 28
Attacked by a dog: 1
Attacked a dog: 2
In need of assistance/Investigations: 57

Wild life hit by vehicles:

Squirrels: 45
woodchucks: 5
Raccoons: 10
Opossums: 4
Deer: 1
Ducks: 1
skunks: 4
seagulls: 3
birds: 2

Wildlife calls: 404

Turkeys: 35                         Opossums: 6
Hawks: 4                            Coyote: 5
Owls: 2                             Fox: 2
Bats: 8                             Ducks/geese: 17
Parakeets/ cockatiels: 2            Skunks: 10
Crows: 9                            Beavers: 2
Seagulls: 41                        Woodchucks: 7
Birds: 74                           Raccoons: 45




                                           165
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Chickens: 2                        Goats: 4
Deer: 5                            Rabbits: 3
Alpacas: 1                         Turtles: 5
Rats/mice: 10                      Bees: 3
Seals: 13                          Squirrels: 66
Chipmunks: 2                       “Alligator”:1 (unfounded)

Animals Adopted:

Cats: 87                           Ferrets: 2
Kittens: 67                        Cockatiel/parakeet: 3
Dogs: 9                            Guinea Pigs: 2
Rabbits: 4


In September of this year, our shelter mascot “Gypsy Rose” was diagnosed with
stomach cancer. Many of our visitors remember her as the “official greeter” when
they came in to visit. She passed away this December and is sadly missed.

Please remember to keep your cats and dogs rabies shots up to date. Failure to
vaccinate your pet is a $50.00 fine, but more importantly rabies is 100% fatal.

The Animal Control Office/ Shelter are located at 44 Village Street. This year the
shelter will have expanded hours, thanks to our dedicated volunteers, so more
people can come in on nights and weekends to see our beautiful pets that are up for
adoption.

The Atlantic Veterinary Hospital located on Ocean Ave. is our Vet. We would like
to thank Jeff Rockwell, DVM, and his staff for always making time for our shelter
animals and animals hit by cars.

ALL wild life comes under the jurisdiction of the Division of Fisheries and Wild
life@ www.mass.gov/dfwele. Please call them or log onto their web site with your
wild life questions/concerns.

Every year our Animal Control Officers are called out for unleashed dogs on the
Rail Way path, parks and beaches. While some areas are open to dogs in the
summer, DOGS STILL MUST BE LEASHED! There is no “off leash” season.
The ONLY off leash areas are River Head beach and the new dog park located off
Tioga Way.




                                       166
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



LOVE, LEASH, AND LICENCE YOUR DOG! (And please try to keep your cat
indoors!)

Respectfully submitted,
Betsy Cruger
Animal Control Officer




                                167
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                       RECREATION AND PARKS


The Recreation and Parks Commission submits this report for the year ending
December 31, 2011.

The Commission is made up of five residents who are elected annually at a general
town election on the second Monday in May each year. The Commission’s
regularly scheduled meetings are held on the first and third Tuesday of each month
at 7:00 PM in the Community Center at 10 Humphrey Street. These meetings
consist of reports, the appearance of persons or groups on the agenda, the review of
correspondence submitted for consideration, discussions of plans and objectives,
and reviews of policies, rules, and regulations as needed. The Commission reviews
and approves the hiring of personnel when recommendations are presented.
Programs and budgets are reviewed by the Commission annually and they act as an
advocate with the Finance Committee and at Town Meeting. The Commission also
reviews and approves the fees and charges made for various uses and programs
concerning the department. The Commission has responsibility for overseeing the
programming, rental, and operation of the Community Center. Night and weekend
fees and rental charges are used from the Revolving Fund to contribute to the
operating and utility costs of the Community Center.

Fields and School Athletic Facility Maintenance

The Department maintained the fields and was responsible for the field preparation,
including lines, for the following sports: High School (Varsity, Junior Varsity, and
Frosh): football, baseball, softball, lacrosse, soccer, and field hockey; Youth Sports
baseball and football; men’s softball and soccer, and co-ed softball.

Spring required varsity school sports first followed by the mid-April Youth Sports
through the summer, adult softball through September, and varsity/JV soccer, field
hockey, and football at the end of August. In September, October, and November,
all fall varsity and junior varsity football, soccer, and field hockey fields and youth
sports fields were maintained for their seasons.

The mowing and trimming of athletic fields is done on weekdays with school in
session due to extensive usage on afternoons, evenings, and weekends. Line
marking with latex paint and/or non-caustic chalk is also done while classes are
inside the schools. Mowing of properties began in early April and continued
through November on a five day per week schedule. Leaf cleanups ran October




                                         168
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


through December, and spring cleanups ran March through May. In cooperation
with the school department special playground fiber (surfacing) was purchased and
added to all school and town playgrounds as needed for safety to reduce the chance
of injuries due to falls. The department was unable to “manicure” the grounds at the
Schools due to budget and manpower limitations; plantings and mulch were added
as time and materials allowed.

Budget and staff limitations, requests for extra work, and changes on short notice
remained a continual problem. Early spring and late fall field scheduling depended on
when fields were dormant, wet, frozen, or overused in any one area. Fall is the best time
to do seeding and sod work on fields but was frequently in conflict with the demands of
the activities scheduled and the department’s continual shortage of funds, materials, and
manpower vs. those demands.

In June conditions became normalized and the landscaping and horticultural problems
slowed down, allowing the department to begin fertilizing, aerating, seeding and mowing.

The department continued to utilize money from the operating budget to complete
necessary projects on athletic fields. This year the department focused its work on two
Park properties. The Hobbs Playground diamond received a substantial upgrade to its
infield surface and the Seaside Park baseball infield was completely renovated. The
Hobbs infield dimensions were re-cut and the overgrown areas were stripped and
removed. The stone dust infield was removed to a depth of 5”, new infield mix was
added and the bases were reset. The work was completed by two full-time Recreation &
Parks Department employees, Greg Snow and Bob Gillis.

The Seaside Park baseball infield was completely renovated. The existing infield,
including 8’ around the perimeter of the infield, was stripped and removed from the site.
The area was power tilled to the depth of 2” to help prevent layering, compatibility and
drainage issues between infield materials and 35 tons of premium native infield mix was
added and laser graded. The infield area was then power raked to the depth of 2” to
alleviate layering of soils, compaction, and organic build up and to provide a healthier
environment for the turf to establish. The infield then received 130 yards of 50/50 root-
zone over the tilled soil and approximately 11,000 square feet of sod was added. A new
pitcher’s mound was built to specification, with mound clay, batters boxes were restored
using packing clay and the bases were reset.

During the year a sports utilization group met at the Community Center with Sam
Ganglani and Linda Rice Collins acting as liaisons for the Commission. The group
kept communications and scheduling concerns open so the various town sports
teams and coaches could minimize conflicts and maximize usage.




                                          169
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



The Recreation and Parks Department continued its participation in the Property
Tax write off program. There were a number of residents who provided outstanding
assistance as part of the program at various times during the year. They assisted
with cleanups and projects at Memorial Park, Fort Sewall, Redd’s Pond, Old Burial
Hill, Seaside Park and the Recreation and Park Department office. Volunteers also
helped with a number of other tasks including Carol Green at Devereux Beach, and
Jim Zeiff and Fred Alling who assisted with keeping the dog waste bag stations
supplied at Fort Sewall and Crocker Park.

All line marking, mowing, and field schedule changes were coordinated by Grounds
Foreman Peter James who assigned Pat Sylvester to the athletic field marking. Pat was
assisted in the fall by a seasonal employee and their efforts continually earned kudos from
the school department and youth sports leagues.

The parks maintenance expense budget was again level funded while material and
delivery costs continued to increase. With these restrictions, and the limited
available seasonal maintenance staff, one of the park’s seven full time employees
was again switched to a Wednesday – Sunday schedule and dedicated to trash
removal and restroom repairs and maintenance during the summer season.

The Commission received numerous requests for fund raising and business use of
the Community Center and the parks. These requests must be approved by a vote of
the Commission as required in the Town By-laws. Among those approved were:

        At the community center:
              o The Board of Health Flu Shot Clinics
              o The Marblehead Arrangers Garden Club Christmas plant and
                  arrangement sale during the Christmas Walk
              o The Democratic Town Committee Caucus
              o Scouting functions
              o Marblehead Family fund “Touch a Truck”
              o Marblehead Youth Badminton
              o Marblehead Youth Basketball
              o Free seminars
              o New Recreation opportunities
        Hamond Nature Center:
              o The Massachusetts Audubon Society sponsored a camp program
                  during July with the staff from the Ipswich River Sanctuary
                  supervising.




                                           170
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


             o   Increased Recreation offering by Recreation Supervisor Mike
                 Lane
       Devereux Beach and parking areas:
            o Senior Class Carnival
            o The M.S. Walk in April
            o The Boston Children’s Hospital “Cycle for Life” used the beach
                 to begin and end its fund raising bike ride
            o Marblehead Rotary Club’s Great Race
            o Several other bicycle and road races to use the beach to begin and
                 end events
            o Rack storage for prams/kayaks
            o Winter dock storage
       Gerry Playground:
            o The Republican Town Committee
            o Several Cub Scout outings
            o Eco Farm Co-operative Market from spring through fall
            o Rack storage for prams/kayaks
       Other fields:
            o Boy Scout Troop 11 for the sale of Christmas trees at Gatchells
                 Playground

Building and Comfort Station (restroom) Maintenance

In addition to the community center other buildings required more attention due to
increased demand. The department continuously maintained a workshop and
equipment storage at Devereux Beach, the garage on Vine Street, Gerry Playground
garages and playground room storage and the Seaside Park grandstand storage area.

The department also maintained comfort stations (restrooms) at the following
locations: Chandler Hovey Park, Devereux Beach, Crocker Park, Fort Sewall,
Reynolds Playground, Gerry Playground, Gatchells Playground, and Hamond
Nature Center on a seasonal basis. Water & Sewer costs, electricity, cleaning
supplies, and paper goods came from the department budget. Doggie bags were
provided through the department’s budget at Chandler Hovey Park, Crocker Park,
and Fort Sewall. Dogs are prohibited from all athletic fields and children’s
playgrounds; all other Parks require dogs to be leashed and dog waste is required by
law to be disposed of in proper safe receptacles designed for fecal waste disposal
(not public trash barrels).

Park Improvements




                                       171
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



Through hard work and dedication by a number of community groups and residents
the following park improvements were made possible.

       The renovation of the “Living Lawn” site into a Butterfly Garden was
        made possible with assistance from the Marblehead Conservancy.
       The entrance to the Hamond Nature Center was renovated with new
        curbing, pavement and gate posts.
       The purchase of three Big Belly Solar Trash receptacles was made possible
        through donations from youth sports groups.
       In cooperation with the Board of Health and middle school students, Grace
        Lavoie and Mia Bongiorno, public area recycling containers were added to
        a number of athletic fields.
       The restroom building in Crocker Park received a complete renovation
        making it handicap accessible. The renovation included new toilets, sinks,
        glass block windows, electrical, lighting and doors with timer locks. These
        improvements were made possible through funding from the Coffin Fund.
       The Crocker park pier head renovation was completed with funding from
        the Coffin Fund.
       The memorial benches in Seaside Park, along Atlantic Ave. were
        completely refinished.
       Installation of a new 70’ fiberglass flagpole at Seaside Park was made
        possible through generous donations from the McKernan Family and the
        Shattuck Memorial Fund.


Anticipated Capital Improvements

   Restroom remodeling at Chandler Hovey Park with a grant from the Shattuck
    Memorial Fund.
   Renovation of Memorial Park with a grant from the Shattuck Memorial Fund.

Leased Properties

The Devereux Beach Concession Stand was operated in 2011 by Mr. Paul Petersiel
doing business as “Lime Rickey’s” in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 30 with
permission of the Board of Selectmen and the Recreation & Parks Commission.




                                      172
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


The Gerry Playground House (A.K.A the Stramski House) lease still remained
vacant. The Commission began to actively seek usage of the facility compatible
with recreation & park programs and policies.

Equipment Replacement and Seasonal Staffing

The department continued to look for reliable seasonal maintenance staff from April
through November, utilizing college students during the summer school break which left
us short staffed during spring and fall months when we needed them the most. This has
resulted in the shifting of budget monies to allow for use of sub contracting in some areas
to meet the demands of grounds maintenance.

Facility & Grounds Landscape Maintenance Program

The Parks staff was responsible for the landscape maintenance, mowing, trimming
of trees and shrubs, and removal of litter on the following properties in 2011 (Note:
“*” denotes athletic fields requiring continuous mowing, lining, and reconditioning
for the Town’s sports programs):




  Recreation, Parks, &          Cemetery & Historic
                                                                  Public Landings:
  Forestry Properties:                Grounds:
    Castle Rock Park            Cressy Street Cemetery             Barnegat trash
  Chandler Hovey Park           Green Street Cemetery           Clark Landing trash
   Community Center             Hooper Tomb Cemetery              Cloutmans trash
      Crocker Park              Harris Street Cemetery         Commercial Street trash
    Devereux Beach             Old Burial Hill Cemetery          Parker Yard trash
       Fort Beach                    Redd’s Pond                Tucker Wharf Trash
                                 Waterside Cemetery
      Fountain Park               (when requested by
                                Cemetery Department)
    Gerry Playground           School Dept. properties:        Other Public Grounds:
                                 Beacon/Green Street
 * Gatchells Playground                                               Fort Sewall
                                        reserve
  * Hobbs Playground                 Bell School                  Gas House Beach
   * Orne Playground                Coffin School                Grace Oliver’s Beach
 * Reynolds Playground              Eveleth School                  Red Steps Way
     * Seaside park                  Gerry School               Fort Sewall turnaround




                                           173
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


     Memorial Park                Glover School              Brookhouse Drive
                                * Marblehead High
 Devereux Beach garage                                     Gallison Avenue Way
                                      School
     Vine St. Garage           Lincoln Ave. reserve           Gatchells Green
                               * The Village Middle
                                                             Lovis Cove Beach
                                      School
                               * The Veterans Junior
                                   High School
                                                               Conservation
                             Other Public Building’s
         Other:                                             Commission Lands
                                   properties:
                                                            (As labor permits):
                                                            Bicycle, Exercise, &
  All public shade trees            Abbot Hall
                                                             conservation trails
Traffic Islands (donated)        Abbot Library                Robinson Farm
 All Public litter barrels         Gun House               Hamond Nature Center
                               Mary Alley Building              Forest River
                                 OKO Building                 Hawthorn Pond
                                Old Town House                 Steer Swamp
                                 Powder House                 Wyman Woods
                               Tower Way Grounds                 Ware Pond


Winter and Spring 2011 Recreation Programs

The department continued the successful ski program under the planning and
supervision of Recreation Supervisor Mike Lane to Attitash/Bear Peak in Bartlett,
N.H. leaving at 6:00 AM on five Saturdays and returning at approximately 6:00 PM.

The department also continued to offer programs at the Community Center and
other town facilities including: an adult boot camp; a Saturday morning Youth
Basketball program; a winter pre-school “indoor park”; after school programs sports
clinics, “Wicked Cool for Kids” science classes, Lego workshops, piano lessons,
kids boot camp and a basketball program for girls in grades 2 – 8. Evenings featured
adult badminton on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Sundays and adult pickup
volleyball on Mondays and Thursdays. Marblehead Youth Badminton and
Marblehead Youth Basketball also rented time in the gym for their programs on
weekday afternoons.




                                       174
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Mike Lane continued to coordinate and implement a number of free community
events such as the yearly Christmas Parade, the free Halloween decorating contest,
and the free “Talk with Santa” program.

Summer and Fall 2011 Recreation Programs

The department continued providing numerous summer outdoor programs (with
rain locations provided) including the Gerry Playground Program (ages 5-7) and the
Seaside Park Program (ages 8-11). Both programs offered an “extended day”
option. Other programs offered in various locations included: Field trips to Canobie
Lake Park and Pump It Up; The Magician’s football, field hockey, basketball,
baseball, and lacrosse clinics; the Roger Day baseball clinic, a soccer clinic; tennis
lessons; youth sailing classes at Gerry Playground; and kayaking instruction at
Riverhead Beach. Indoor programs in summer and fall at the Community Center
continued to offer science classes, adult volleyball, and piano lessons. The
department also offered a number of new programs including track and field, voice
coaches, television production and a junior explorer’s science program.

Department Staff

The Recreation Department is very fortunate to have a great staff of full and part-
time employees. Our employees strive to make a positive difference and are
committed to our community and, are willing to go the extra mile.

We want to thank the Department’s employees for their dedication to our Town’s
natural resources and recreation opportunities. The following people worked for the
Departments during the past year:
   Brendan Egan, Department Superintendent
   C. Michael Lane, Recreation Supervisor and Assistant Superintendent
   Ric Reynolds, Senior Clerk
   Peter R. James, Working Foreman/Building and Grounds
   Robert Gillis, Parks Maintenance Craftsman
   Greg Snow, Maintenance Craftsman/Mechanic
   Reginald Berry, Mike Attridge, Brad Delisle, and Pat Sylvester, Maintenance /
    Groundskeepers.

There are many instructors who worked in the various recreation programs,
playground, and other leisure services within the department in the parks and at the
Community Center. Also, there were seasonal maintenance workers and caretakers
for the parks, and summer maintenance workers and lifeguards at Devereux Beach.




                                        175
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



The Commission would like to thank the staffs of the Tree, Highway, Health,
Harbormaster, Building, Schools, Finance, Municipal Light, Cemetery, Police, Fire,
and Water/Sewer Departments for their continued support and the Town
Administrator, Town Clerk’s, and Selectmen’s office for their assistance during the
past year.

Every year there are many who volunteer with maintenance and recreation
programs for the Town. The Commission wants to express its thanks on behalf of
all the residents who benefit from the countless hours volunteered, making
Marblehead a great place to live.


Respectfully submitted,

Chip Osborne, Chairman
Derek Norcross
Sam Ganglani
Linda Rice-Collins
Gerald Tucker


Brendan Egan
Superintendent, Recreation & Parks
Town of Marblehead




                                       176
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


             SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES


The following work was completed for the year ending Dec 31, 2011:

Scales Sealed:                             40
Scales Condemned:                           0
Scales Rechecked After Repairs              0
Consumer Complaints Investigated            0
Report Letter Written                       0
Apothecary Sets Sealed                      3

Respectfully submitted,


David C Rodgers
Sealer




                                     177
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                       SHELLFISH CONSTABLES


Devereux, Tucker’s, and Goldthwait beaches were opened for the harvesting of surf
clams on November 15th. The Board of Health supplied the MA Division of Marine
Fisheries with historical water quality reports. As of the writing of this report there
were 83 licenses issued to date for the 2011/2012 season. The clamming season in
Marblehead is historically during the months of September through April. The areas
may open later and close temporarily during the season when environmental issues
may change.

Monitoring diggers, checking water quality and testing of the clams is performed
constantly by the Board of Health, MA Division of Marine Fisheries and local
residents that have volunteered to serve as Shellfish Constables. The Town Clerk
and her staff have been very diligent in processing the paperwork for the State and
issuing licenses.

Respectfully submitted,

Wayne O. Attridge, Chief Shellfish Constable

         Constables:
         Douglas Aikman
         John Gregory Attridge
         Raymond Bates Jr.
         Harry Christensen, Esq.
         David Donahue
         Deborah Fadden
         Jeffrey Flynn
         R. Thomas Hamond
         Susan Hogan
         Douglas Percy
         F. Webb Russell




                                         178
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


           TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION

In the summer of 1989, a series of horrific hate crimes occurred at the Jewish
Community Center of the North Shore and Temple Emanu-el. The community
response to these crimes was that of outrage. At that time, a group of citizens
requested that the Board of Selectmen appoint a task force.

At their regular meeting on August 2, 1989, the Board voted to establish and
commission the Task Force against Discrimination (TFAD) to help fight acts of
discrimination, hatred, and bigotry. Ever since, the Task Force has had a visible
presence in the town, meeting in open session on a regular basis, creating
informative programming, and reacting to situations as they arise. The committee is
appointed yearly by the Board of Selectmen and includes members of the clergy,
educators, students, the Marblehead Police Department and concerned citizens.

Throughout the years, the Marblehead Task Force Against Discrimination’s mission
has been to work toward a safe community that celebrates diversity. Marblehead is
a place where diversity is embraced and where discrimination will not be tolerated.
The Task Force continues to discuss how anti-discrimination can be
“institutionalized” throughout Marblehead, connections among hate crimes and
bullying, and incidents of vandalism within Marblehead.

During 2011, Task Force members participated in the North Shore Interfaith Seder
on April 6 and the North Shore’s Walk for Respect on May 22. In addition, Task
Force member Loren Weston was honored with the Community Service Award at
ADL’s Annual Law and Education Day on May 6, 2011 for her visionary work in
the community and at Marblehead High School.

The Task Force also responded with vigor to incidents of racism that occurred
during the Fourth of July festivities in Marblehead. Task Force members contacted
the victims, and TFAD member Deacon Joe Whipple wrote a compelling Letter to
the Editor that was published in the Marblehead Reporter. TFAD members
contributed to the ongoing conversation that occurred both in print and online, and
reached out to conversation participants with support. The Task Force commends
the individuals involved: the victims so bravely reporting the incidents as well as
those concerned citizens who responded. TFAD encourages all Marbleheaders to do
the same.




                                       179
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


The TFAD’s major project in 2011 was to bring “Rachel’s Challenge” to the
Marblehead community. “Rachel’s Challenge” is a program about respect and
everyday kindness that grew out of the Columbine High School crisis and has
spread to many communities across the country. Through the story of one
Columbine victim, “Rachel’s Challenge” encourages students, teachers, and all
community members to engage the issues that can divide communities and to
commit to the hard work that strengthens the ties that hold communities together
and discourages events such as the Columbine HS massacre.

Loren Weston and the Team Harmony group at MHS, in partnership with the
Friends of Marblehead Public Schools, Eastern Bank, and the TFAD, brought this
program to MHS on October 6, 2011. The TFAD supported the effort with
fundraising and publicity at the Farmer’s Market, and provided ongoing help to
Loren and her MHS team. Programming occurred throughout the day for all grades
in the high school, and continued in the evening with a free event for parents and
community members. Approximately 120 people attended the evening event.
During the daytime MHS event, more than 100 MHS students were trained to take
“Rachel’s Challenge” to another level by engaging their friends and community to
“create a chain of kindness.” Ongoing follow up and related events continue at
MHS through the efforts of Task Force member Loren Weston and the Team
Harmony students. Team Harmony is supported, in part, by generous donations
from National Grand Bank and through contributions from several Marblehead
residents.

Twenty-one years after the precipitating event, the Task Force Against
Discrimination still calls on Marblehead residents, of all ages, races, classes, sexual
orientations, gender identities, faiths, physical and mental abilities, and backgrounds
to join with the Task Force Against Discrimination in continuing to make
Marblehead a respectful, supportive, and inclusive community for its many and
diverse citizens and visitors.

Respectfully submitted,

Helaine R. Hazlett, Co-Chair
Rev. Dr. Anne Marie Hunter, Co-Chair

Melissa Aizanman                     Chief Robert Picariello
Michael Harper                       Monica Tecca
Ben Katzman                          Loren Weston
Harvey Michaels                      Dean John Whipple




                                         180
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                          TREE DEPARTMENT

Public shade trees located on public ways are under the jurisdiction of the Tree
Warden and the four person tree crew. The department tries to identify and reduce
tree hazards along public ways including the parks, cemeteries, and school grounds.
The department removed over one hundred and fifty dead or hazardous trees also
removed the same amount of stumps, and trimmed well over four hundred trees and
planted sixty five new trees around town. Telephone calls from residents regarding
tree matters remained heavy through the spring, summer, and fall we made every
effort to respond to all calls. Tree department employees also assist the DPW with
plowing and snow removal operations. The department purchases seedlings from
the Massachusetts tree Wardens and Foresters Association that were planted in
conservation areas by the Marblehead Conservancy and other volunteers. The
department would like to thank the DPW for all their help this past year a special
thanks to DPW Dir David Donahue and Senior Clerk Sue Hogan. I would like to
thank the department’s employees for their hard work and dedication. I would also
like to thank the town for their continued support



Respectfully submitted,

Doug Gordon
Marblehead Tree Warden


Ed Park                   Foreman
Art Beauchesne            Groundsman
Walter Leszczynski        Heavy Equipment Operator,
Brendon Odonell           Tree Climber/Forestry Maintenance




                                       181
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                           VETERANS’ AGENT


I hereby submit my report as Veterans Agent, Flag Officer, Veterans Burial Officer,
and Veterans Graves Registration Officer for the year ending Dec 31, 2011.

My number one duty is to the Veterans of the Town of Marblehead and their
families. I continue to attend State and Federal training sessions and seminars to
remain updated in all aspects of Veterans Affairs.

Office records for 2011 indicate that four Veterans or their families filed for
benefits under Mass General Laws, Chapter 115. This chapter of the law provides
assistance to Veterans in need.

Requests for assistance in filing for Department of Veterans Affairs Benefits
(Federal) remained high. This office has encouraged enrollment in the VA
Healthcare System. Many Marblehead Veterans have taken advantage of this health
benefit, which includes obtaining daily prescription drugs for $8.00 per month for
each medication. Casket Flags and Grave Markers were the principal Death
Benefits filed for with the Department of Veterans Affairs

Packages were sent to our service men and women deployed overseas in the WAR
ON TERROR. The Gerry Five VFA, Chaplain Lyman Rollins VFW POST 2005,
and the Mark Brings Family(C.A.P.T.S) assisted with the packages. Keep these
brave men and women in your prayers.

A special commemorative coin was given to WWII Veterans or their surviving
spouses on Veterans Day 2011.

A total of 68 Marblehead Veterans were laid to rest between Nov 11, 2010 and Nov
11, 2011. A large percent of these men and women were World War II Veterans.
As a town and country we have an obligation to this generation of Americans.
Service to our Veterans and their families remains the most important goal of this
office.

I would like to thank Chaplain Lyman Rollins VFW Post 2005, the American
Legion Post 32, and the US Submarine Veterans, Marblehead Base for their
assistance in the affairs of this office in 2011. I would also like to thank
Marbleheader Karin Martin for her work in Memorial Park.




                                       182
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



Respectfully submitted,


David C Rodgers, Veterans Agent




                                  183
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                WATER AND SEWER COMMISSION


The Water and Sewer Commission is pleased to submit its report for calendar year
2011. During the year our staff completed several projects and continued the
planning for several new improvements to be done by the Water, Sewer and Drain
departments.

The Water Department completed its annual maintenance and inspection program
that included repair and replacement of hydrants, water quality testing, backflow
inspection, water meter reading and meter replacement, as well as the continued
installation of new radio meter-reading devices. Other projects accomplished by the
department include leak detection, gate valve maintenance and replacement, water
main repairs and assisting our customers with various concerns.
Some of the major projects undertaken by the Water Department during 2011
include the rehabilitation and refurbishing of the Village Street standpipe (water
tank), replacement of the water main on Corinthian Lane, installation of new valves
in the downtown section of Pleasant Street (which was completed without any
interruption of service to businesses or homes) and repaving of a section of West
Shore Drive and roads on Marblehead Neck where previous work had been done.

The Sewer Department continued its annual maintenance and inspection program,
including the maintenance of its 28 sewer pump stations. Other projects completed
during 2011 were line cleaning, root treatment and inspection of over 100 miles of
sewer mains and over 3,000 manholes.
In addition the Sewer Department performed sanitary sewer diagnosis and
assessment of 16 manholes and over 300 sewer lines, laid the final paving on Tufts
Street, Ruby Avenue and Ruby Terrace from a previously completed project and
installed SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) monitoring systems
at the Sunset Road and Beach Street pump stations.

The Storm Drain Department maintained over 2,000 catch basins throughout
town. Projects included the installation and rebuilding of 29 catch basins and
manholes and completion of repairs to the Red Gate outfall structure off Harbor
Avenue. The annual cleaning of all catch basins took place during the month of
October.
The department also began an extensive study of the storm drainage system in the
Pleasant, Sewall and School streets area. Based on the results of this study, a
proposal for upgrading the drainage system was presented to the Board of
Selectmen in December. The Board of Selectmen and the Water and Sewer




                                       184
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Commission will jointly sponsor an Article at the May, 2012 Town Meeting seeking
funding for the project.

The Water, Sewer and Drain departments, along with all other town departments,
began the process of complying with a new Federal Communications Commission
(FCC) mandate for converting current radio communication frequencies from a
VHF band to a UHF band.

Our office staff has once again been active, processing over 30,000 bills while
collecting over $7,000,000 in revenue. Other duties were maintaining and updating
house connection records, construction planning, scheduling of appointments and
addressing customer inquiries. The on-line payment program continues to be a
convenient bill payment option; customers can register for on-line payment of their
water and sewer bills at www.marblehead.org.

There were a few staff changes that took place in 2011. Robert Landry, a mechanic
pipefitter for the Sewer Department, retired in January and was replaced by
department employee Michael Atkins. Johann Gebhard transferred from the
Cemetery Department to fill the special laborer position vacated by Mr. Atkins.
Helen Smith was hired for the billing technician position that became available
when Krissey Regan left in May.
Finally, we would like to thank all of our staff for their dedication and
accomplishments during the year. Without their help, none of the work mentioned
above would have been possible. We also extend our appreciation to the other Town
Departments for their cooperation and, last but certainly not least, to the members of
the Water and Sewer Commission for their valued commitment, guidance and
expertise throughout 2011 and for their continued support in 2012.
And, as always, we encourage customers with questions concerning Marblehead’s
water, sewer or drain systems to visit our website at www.marblehead.org/water or
to call the office at 781 631-0102 or 781 631-2694. Information on water quality
can be found on the website for the Massachusetts Water Resource Authority
(www.mwra.com), the provider of Marblehead’s water.


Respectfully submitted,


Charles R McCollum
Superintendent




                                        185
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Marblehead Water and Sewer Commission
F. Carlton Siegel, P.E. (Chairman)
Bradford N. Freeman (Vice Chairman)
Wilbur E. Bassett, P.E.
John P. Doane
R. Thomas Hammond
Telephone (781) 631-0102
Fax (781) 631-2670


Charles R. McCollum, Superintendent     Amy McHugh, Assistant Superintendent




                                      186
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011




Office Staff:                                 Drain Department Employees:
Paul E. Jalbert, Office Manager               Kevin Wilson, Leader Drains
Helen Smith, Billing Technician               William Larios, Heavy Equip Operator
Lynne DeGrandpré, Special Clerk



Water Department Employees:                   Sewer Department Employees:
William Haskell, Special Laborer III          Mark Fulton, Special Laborer III
Gregory Burt, Water Technician                James Johnson, Mechanic Supervisor
John Bradshaw, Mechanic Pipefitter            Jonathan Morley, Mechanic Pipefitter
Michael Marsters, Mechanic Pipefitter         Michael Atkins, Mechanic Pipefitter
David Cameron, Heavy Equip Operator           Brian Conrad, Mechanic Pipefitter
Corey Smith, Special Laborer I                Eric Hildonen, Heavy Equip Operator
Matthew Thibault, Special Laborer I           Steven Hull, Special Laborer I
Peter Dorney, Special Laborer I               Johann Gebhard, Special Laborer I


                     WATER DEPARTMENT REPORT

    1. Water Breaks                                                        3
    2. Hydrants Replaced                                                   2
    3. Hydrants Repaired                                                  19
    4. New Main Line Valves Installed                                      9
    5. New Water Service and Renewals                                     27
    6. Inside Valves Replaced                                             26
    7. New Water Mains or Extensions                                       1
    8. Water Services Repaired                                            11
    9. Replaced Gate Boxes                                                12
    10. Frozen Meters                                                     10
    11. Hydrants Painted                                                  15
    12. Trouble Calls                                                     19
    13. Radio Reader Installations                                       270
    14. Dig Safe mark outs                                             2,184

                     SEWER DEPARTMENT REPORT

    1.   Sewer Lines Cleaned                                          47,385 ft
    2.   Drain Lines Cleaned                                           3,059 ft




                                        187
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


3. Wet Wells Cleaned /H2O used                                         28
4. Total Water Used From Lines 1,2 & 3                           114,763 gals
5. Vacuum Dig Repairs                                                  10
6. Lines Televised – Sewer                                            550 ft
7. Service Repaired – Permits                                          20
8. New Services – Permits                                                9
9. Construction Repairs                                                  6
10. Manholes Repaired                                                  13
11. Pumping Stations Maintained                                        28
    Repairs made include but were not limited to overhaul/replacement of
    sump pumps, motor drive couplings, seals, compressors, air lines,
    generators, computer component controls, doorway access and hatch cover
    repairs along with grounds-keeping. Air lines and vent tubes were installed
    at the Sunset Station and hot top and curbing were replaced outside the
    station. The by-pass valve at the Clifton Station was adjusted and a new
    furnace and chimney were installed at the Sargent Station.

12. Vehicles Maintained by Sewer Mechanic                             23
    The water and sewer departments each purchased a 2011 Freightliner,
    replacing two older vehicles. The Water Department also purchased a Ford
    Transit and an equipment trailer was added to the fleet. Repairs were done
    on the 1996 vacuum truck and several portable generators and pumps were
    inspected, maintained and repaired.

13. Dig Safe Mark Outs                                             2,184
14. Oil Spills Into Sanitary Sewer                                     0
15. Footage of Sewer Lines Treated for Roots                       5,425 ft


                   DRAIN DEPARTMENT REPORT

1.   Catch Basins Repaired                                            19
2.   New Catch Basins                                                  3
3.   New, repaired Manholes                                            6
4.   Drain Lines Cleaned                                              10
5.   Drain Lines Repaired                                              3
6.   Sump Pump Connection                                              5
7.   Inspected and maintained all town open ditches and outfalls
8.   Drain system monitored during all snow and rain events
9.   Graded and hot topped all drain work




                                   188
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



  REPORT OF THE SOUTH ESSEX SEWERAGE DISTRICT
We are pleased to report that our treatment facility performed well throughout 2011.
As in past years, the SESD staff has continued to refine the treatment methods to
assure the best level of treatment at the lowest possible cost to the member
communities and ratepayers. We recognize the employees of SESD and commend
them for a very productive and successful year.

We will be glad to answer any questions that may arise concerning our waste water
treatment facility. The Town is proud to be a member community of SESD and
looks forward to the continued operation of this clean, safe and efficient facility.


Respectfully submitted,

Charles R. McCollum
(SESD Representative)




                                       189
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



                      South Essex Sewerage District
                   EXPENSES & REVENUES REPORT
                       TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD
                             Fiscal Year 2011
                    Report Prepared by Brian McNamee
                             SESD Treasurer

REVENUE
                   Method of          Percent      Marblehead       SESD
 Description    Apportionment         Of Total      Amount           Total
Assessment     FY11 Budgeted             7.84%      $ 2,128,532   $27,161,157
Revenue        Apportionment

Member         Actual                      0.00%             0     (260,000)
Refunds Paid
Chemical       District Apportions         0.00%             0             0
Reimburse-
ments
Sewer Rate     Fixed Amount                0.00%             0             0
Relief         Budgeted for
               Marblehead
               Utilization
Septage        District Apportions         7.64%        17,664       231,190
Revenue
MWPAT          Based on Cost               7.22%       543,780     7,534,822
Loan           Apportionment
Subsidies      Agreements
Interest       Actual & District       10.24%           16,292       159,110
Income,        Apportions Based
Investment     on Average Monthly
Income         UFB Balance
Energy         Actual                      7.67%          4,060       52,903
Savings
Revenue
Misc Revenue   Actual                      9.97%          1,905       19,106
Other Income
Special        District Apportions         0.00%             0         5,231
Assessment
TOTAL                                      7.77%     $2,712,234   $34,903,518
REVENUES




                                     190
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



EXPENSES
                    Method of          Percent      Marblehead    SESD
 Description     Apportionment         Of Total      Amount       Total
0 & M 2000     Based on Percentage        0.00%               0    135,115
               of Flow
O & M 3000     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0     235,887
               of Flow
O & M 4000     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      28,617
               of Flow
O & M 5000     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0     464,680
               of Flow
O & M 5001     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0           0
               of Flow
O & M 6000     Based on Percentage          7.65%        32,127    419,816
               of Flow
O & M 6001     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0           0
               of Flow
O & M 7000     Based on Percentage          8.04%       331,482   4,120,653
               of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
               Flow and Solids
O & M 7001     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0           0
               of Flow 3 - Yr. Avg.
               Flow and Solids
O & M 7050     Based on Cost                0.00%            0           0
               Apportionment
               Agreements
O & M 7100     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      14,989
               of Flow
O & M 7200     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      11,657
               of Flow
O & M 7300     Based on Percentage     100.00%            5,661      5,661
               of Flow
O & M 7400     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      28,754
               of Flow
O & M 7500     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0       8,895
               of Flow
O & M 7600     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0      27,798
               of Flow
O & M 7601     Based on % of Flow           0.00%            0           0




                                      191
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



                    Method of          Percent      Marblehead     SESD
 Description     Apportionment         Of Total      Amount        Total
O & M 8010     Based on Percentage        8.04%         109,092   1,356,127
               of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
               Flow and Solids
O & M 8011     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0           0
               of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
               Flow and Solids
O & M 8020     Based on Percentage          7.43%       140,044   1,886,058
               of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
               Flow and Solids
O & M 8021     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0           0
               of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
               Flow and Solids
O & M 8030     Based on Percentage          7.65%        32,016    418,364
               of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
               Flow
O & M 8031     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0           0
               of Flow - 3 Yr. Avg.
               Flow
O & M 8040     Based on Percentage          8.91%       161,141   1,808,601
               of BOD
O & M 8041     Based on Percentage          0.00%            0           0
               of BOD
O & M 8060     Based on Weighted            8.08%       328,087   4,061,537
               Percentage of
               BOD/TSS
O & M 8061     Based on Weighted            0.00%            0           0
               Percentage of
               BOD/TSS
O & M 9000     Based on Percentage     100.00%          150,421    150,421
               of Flow
Special        Actual                       0.00%            0           0
Assessment
Principal –    Based on Cost                6.96%       582,665   8,376,803
Long Term      Apportionment
               Agreements
Interest –     Based on Cost                6.31%       125,104   1,982,005
Long Term      Apportionment
               Agreements




                                      192
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



MWPAT           Based on Cost               7.22%          543,780     7,534,822
Loan            Apportionment
Subsidies       Agreements
MWPAT           Based on Cost               7.21%            7,975       110,686
Administra-     Apportionment
tive Fees       Agreements
Interest –      Based on Cost               0.00%                0             0
Short Term      Apportionment
                Agreements
Debt Expense    Based on Cost               0.00%                0             0
Origination     Apportionment
Fees            Agreements
Payment in      Based on Cost               9.53%           47,664       500,000
Lieu of Taxes   Apportionment
                Agreements
Intergovern-    Based on Cost               0.00%                0             0
mental Fines    Apportionment
                Agreements
Stabilization   Based on Percentage         0.00%                0             0
                of 3 Yr. Avg. of
                Flow & Solids
Transfer to     Actual                      0.00%                0             0
CPF’s
Misc.           Actual                      0.00%                0             0
Expense
TOTAL                                       7.71%        $2,597,258   $33,687,946
EXPENSES


EXCESS (DEFICIENCY) OF                       $ 114,976
REVENUES OVER EXPENSES
FOR MARBLEHEAD




                                      193
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



                    ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
The Zoning Board of Appeals met in regular monthly sessions in 2011, conducting
81 advertised hearings, granting 66 applications, denying 1 and allowing 11 to
withdraw. Three hearings were continued into 2012. The Board also conducted 9
non-advertised administrative hearings for minor modifications to previous special
permits.

At the close of 2011, Board members were David Tubridy, Alan Lipkind, Bob
Schaeffner and William R. Moriarty. The alternates were Christopher Casey, Paige
Hintlian and Bruce Krasker.

Special acknowledgement must be given to former Board member Barbara Shefftz
for her fine service to the Board since 1987. Ms. Shefftz was the Board’s
“Institutional Memory,” boasting an impressive, even surprisingly detailed,
knowledge of Marblehead’s zoning affairs. Her diligence, doggedness, and
decisiveness will be sorely missed. It is safe to say that she has no equal and we
shall not see her like again. Marblehead must count itself very fortunate to have had
the benefit of her long service.

Special thanks (in no particular order) to Steve Ware (unfailingly helpful), Willy
Lanphear (unfailingly cheerful), Colleen King (unfailingly organized) and Becky
Curran.

Respectfully submitted,
William R. Moriarty
Chair




                                        194
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



                         SCHOOL DEPARTMENT

                   MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE

                 EuRim Chun                 Term Expires May, 2012
                 Jonathan Lederman          Term Expires May, 2013
                 Kathleen Leonardson        Term Expires May, 2013
                 Dick Nohelty               Term Expires May, 2014
                 Thomas Connolly            Term Expires May, 2014

                                ORGANIZATION
                         Chairperson      EuRim Chun
                         Vice-Chairperson Jonathan Lederman
                         Secretary        Dick Nohelty

                              REGULAR MEETINGS

The regular meetings of the School Committee are held in the High School Library
bi-monthly at 7:30 p.m. on the first and third Thursdays of the month except in July
and August.

                   MARBLEHEAD SCHOOLS ON THE WEB

Additional information about all Marblehead Public Schools programs can be found
on the internet site at: http://www.marbleheadschools.org

                        ADMISSIONS REQUIREMENTS

Entrance Age: Any child who will be six years of age on or before August 31 of that
school year may be admitted to the primary unit (first grade) during the month of
September. No child ineligible for the primary unit in September shall be admitted
during the school year. The minimum age for entering the kindergarten shall be five
years on or before August 31 of that school year.

Children entering school for the first time are required to present a birth certificate,
a physical exam (including vision screening for distance visual acuity and
stereopsis) completed within 12 months prior to the date of school entry, and
documentation of immunizations. All children must be immunized against polio;
diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus(DPT); measles, mumps and rubella (MMR); Hepatitis




                                         195
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


B; Varicella vaccine or M.D. documentation of disease(chicken pox); and date and
results of lead test. Exemptions from immunizations are allowed under
Commonwealth of Massachusetts Law for either religious or medical reasons, both
of which require documentation.

                          SIGNALS FOR NO SCHOOL

No school announcements will be made over radio, television channels 4, 5 and 7,
on the Marblehead Public Schools website at http://www.marbleheadschools.org as
well as through email and phone messages with the AlertNow system. Telephone
calls should not be made to the Police or Fire Departments.

Since widely varying conditions in the various parts of Marblehead may make it
difficult to reach decisions about inclement weather conditions, parents are
requested to exercise their discretion in regard to their own children's attendance.

2011-12 SCHOOL HOURS
High School       7:55 a.m. to 2:37 p.m.
              Middle School           8:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
              Village School          8:00 a.m. to 2:15 p.m.
              Glover, Gerry, Bell     8:15 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
              Eveleth, Coffin         8:05 a.m. to 2:20 p.m.

SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS
Our 2012-2013 proposed budget request is built around the assumption of level-
services budget funding. The description “level-services budget” usually means the
prior year’s budget allocation plus increases to fund those currently existing
contractual obligations for existing services. These obligations arise primarily from
advances in employee pay due to step and lane adjustments. This year’s level-
services budget request also includes a return of the base portion of those salaries
charged to the Ed Jobs Grant in place of the prior year’s appropriation of $270,000.
These funds make up for the “funding cliff” caused by the end of the federal Ed
Jobs grant. Last years appropriation was $28,838,012, before adding back the
return of the Ed Jobs grant funds. As per prior agreement by the Town those funds
are being returned to the make the town appropriation base to the school from the
prior year $29,108,012. The pre-existing contractual obligations increase needed is
$475,700. The proposed 2012-2013 budget appropriation is therefore the combined
total amount of $745,700 more than 2012, or $29,583,712. The total change to the
appropriation is 2.59%, made up of .94% return of the prior year’s base and a 1.65%




                                        196
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


increase the current year. This level-services budget includes neither an allocation
to fund future collective bargaining settlements nor funding for any new services.

The Town’s FY13 budget assumptions anticipate a reduction of state aide of 4%, a
reduction in local receipts of 6%, and a projected increase in health insurance rates
of 12%. The town has had a long and successful history of demonstrating its
appreciation and commitment to its employees by funding budgets at levels that
have avoided layoffs. 2012-2013 will be the sixth consecutive budget to be funded
at level-services. This is an accomplishment, especially when viewed within the
context of the extended period of tough economic times we find ourselves in. Each
of these level-service budget years saw resources re-positioned to some degree in
order to allow some new education services. The re-alignment of staff and resources
this year will reflect a much more significant shift than in recent years. As
Superintendent, I worked with the Administrative Council through a process of
assessing our current situation and identifying and prioritizing those initiatives best
able to move the district forward. The focus of initiatives funded by this year’s
budget will move away from professional development toward a new focus on
improvement to the organizational structure, systems and the classroom itself. The
re-alignment of staff and resources is not only more significant in that there is a new
focus but also because the amount of funds being re-aligned is larger than in recent
years. We hope to affect these changes in the least disruptive manner possible.

This budget will re-align $915,670 in order to fund district improvements in the
areas of: curriculum, instruction and assessment, human resources, technology, ELL
program support, and Math program support. In addition, this re-alignment will
fund the costs related to the move from the Glover School during construction as
well as additional coverage needed for elementary lunch supervision. Finally, this
year’s re-alignment also will adjust the budget back to within its means by not
recommitting $200,000 of the reductions. The close of the FY 2011 books required
accessing additional funding sources at a level approximately $200,000 above and
beyond the amount normally required and, more importantly, reliably available.
The current FY 2012 budget would not have been able to close in the black had it
not been for unbudgeted increases in both the Circuit Breaker funding and in
additional revenue from Special Education “in-district tuition-in.”

The assumption built into the budget for 2012-2013 utilizes additional budgeted
revenue from Special Education “in-district tuition-in” sources projected to
increase, this year by $67,595 for a total amount of $625,000. The amount of
savings anticipated from teacher retirements is down significantly to $21,169 from
$240,000 last year. The anticipated Circuit Breaker reimbursement from the state




                                         197
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


for Special Education tuition is anticipated at 65%. We also have a 2012-2013
budget assumption that revenues from facilities rentals will offset custodial
overtime costs in the amount of $75,000. The town will continue its commitment to
the energy reserve program now entering its seventh year. This program provides a
method of relief if energy costs were to spike dramatically. The school
department’s maximum allocation from the energy reserve fund will allow an
adjustment up to $250,000 if its appropriated energy budget is expended.

In support of our budget and to support the Marblehead Public Schools’ Executive
Team (School Committee) and their belief in student success and a support-first
philosophy, I am recommending an educational plan for the Marblehead Public
Schools. The plan focuses on three areas: 1.The development of a coherent,
connected, and continuous curriculum; 2.The development of and support for the
new Massachusetts Educator Evaluation model; 3.A data and technology system
that supports performance-measuring assessment. Let me take a moment to explain
each of these areas.

       The development of a coherent, connected, and continuous
        curriculum. The curriculum gives an explicit definition of what students
        will learn, and to what extent they will learn it. These definitions should
        reflect educational rigor and emphasize thinking and problem solving; they
        should also apply to relevant and authentic contexts. We need to develop a
        K-12 content-based curriculum in our core areas and in all the other parts
        of our program. This area requires leadership and curriculum development
        expertise.
       The development of and support for the new Massachusetts Educator
        Evaluation model. We are beginning to implement the Massachusetts
        Educator Evaluation model. This model will support all educators in their
        pursuit of professional improvement while targeting student achievement.
        Currently, we lack a formal Human Resource Department. The new model
        of increased accountability for evaluation and achievement is tied closely
        to the curriculum, so it’s vital that we accelerate human resource
        development in order to lay the foundation for success.
       A data and technology system that supports performance-measuring
        assessment. To warehouse and analyze data to inform decisions related to
        curriculum and outcome is a challenge that is increasingly becoming
        critical to student achievement.      Determining and establishing such
        technology systems that directly support teachers in utilizing data to inform
        their instruction in the classroom is tantamount to student learning and
        success.




                                       198
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


To succeed in these three areas, we need to hire individuals who can help lead our
system. Thus, we will hire an Assistant Superintendent for Curriculum/Instruction
and Assessment, a Director of Human Resources, and a Supervisor of Technology.
The funds for these positions will come from realigning existing resources. The
School Committee will have the opportunity to consider these recommendations and
approve allocations to implement this plan as we prepare the school budget for the
upcoming school year.

Class Size
This budget was prepared under the assumption that Class Size is projected to
remain stable with the prior year’s overall levels. The Pre-K & Kindergarten
enrollments are projected to edge up slightly while grades 1 through 4 are expected
to see a slight downtick. Similarly, grades 5 & 6 are expected to rise slightly while
grades 7 & 8 will see a small decrease. The High School enrollment is expected to
remain stable. With the Glover School Elementary Project beginning, the
reconfiguration of pupils may give the illusion of larger classes in the lower grades
due to the Eveleth and Village Schools operating closer to full capacity.

Special Education Program
The 2012-2013 budget line for this category was increased by $45,000 over its prior
years originally budgeted appropriation for the second year in a row. This budget
line now represents the fully funded budget allocation for the Summer Education
Salaries at a total of $135,000. The “Circuit Breaker” state reimbursement for pupil
services tuition costs are projected to remain at the 65% level, restored from the
prior years projected 40% level. The percentage of pupils receiving some form of
supplemental pupil services is, like overall enrollment, projected to remain stable at
about 17%.

Utilities
For FY12-13 the allocation for electricity, gas, and water, were all increased to fully
fund the amount of current projections. The 2010-2011 fiscal year saw dramatic
increases in electricity and water costs. Management and conservation measures
during 2011-2012 returned expenditures to more historical cost and usage levels for
water. However the electricity increase appears to be a new base to project from.
This increase resulted from various improvements in our buildings, including more
square footage to heat and maintain. Finally, utilities savings related to the Glover
Elementary School coming off-line is the source of funding for the costs of the
move and the “fit-up” at the Eveleth to accommodate housing the Glover pupils and
staff during construction.




                                         199
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


I would like to thank the School Committee members, Marblehead residents and
Town officials, for their continued support on behalf of our children in the
Marblehead Public Schools.

                                                       Respectfully Submitted,
                                                       Dr. Gregory R. Maass
                                                       Superintendent of Schools


MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE
The Marblehead School Committee’s three primary responsibilities are the hiring
and supervision of the Superintendent of Schools, the approval and oversight of the
Marblehead Public School district’s budget, and the creation and oversight of school
policy. Working closely with the new Superintendent, Dr. Gregory Maass, the
School Committee strives to balance the needs of individual students, schools, and
programs with the overall direction and priorities of the district, all within the
town’s financial means. The School Committee works in partnership with the town,
including the Marblehead civic community, parents, students, teachers and school
administration to make appropriate and sustainable educational decisions.

Since the last Report to the Town, the School Committee successfully engaged in a
Superintendent search process and hired an outstanding new Superintendent, Dr.
Gregory Maass, former Superintendent of the Green Bay, Wisconsin’s Public
School system, to replace the retiring Superintendent, Dr. Paul Dulac. Dr. Maass
began his tenure as the new Superintendent of the Marblehead Public Schools July
1st, 2011. Since then, Dr. Maass has focused his efforts on building a Student
Success/Student First leadership model that focuses on instructional excellence and
student accomplishment in the classroom. In support of the new Superintendent’s
efforts, in the Fall of 2011, the Marblehead School Committee unanimously voted
in favor of revising its instructional vision and mission statements, respectively, for
the Marblehead Public Schools to reflect this commitment to our students and
school community:

VISION
To achieve student success through 1) collaborative methods and processes for
teaching, learning, and leading, and 2) implementation of a Support First
philosophy, which creates and environment that asks questions, seeks understanding
and withholds judgment.




                                         200
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



MISSION
To implement the educational programs and best practices that lead to instructional
excellence, and results in student success and outcome in the classroom.

The School Committee’s budget deliberations for FY13 is based on maintaining
level services and meeting current contractual obligations. State cuts to local aid
and circuit breaker credits continue to exacerbate the pressure on both the town and
school budgets. As the case has been over the past several years, across the state,
municipalities face escalating health insurance costs coupled with limited revenue
sources, creating a challenging fiscal climate for collective bargaining. The current
Marblehead teachers’ contract expires in August, 2012. In January 2012, the
Marblehead Education Association (MEA) and the School Committee met to begin
engaging in collective bargaining negotiations, which will include adopting
procedures and language to implement the new Educator Evaluation Model System.
In June 2011, the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE)
passed new regulations for conducting educator evaluations that focuses on
combining support to educators in their pursuit of professional improvement while
targeting student achievement. The purpose and ultimate goal, for these new
regulations, which is a mandatory subject of collective bargaining in Massachusetts
(M.G.L., c71 s 38), is to “attract, develop and retain a highly effective educator
workforce.” As a Race to the Top district, the Marblehead Public Schools will be
mandated to begin implementing the regulations starting this September, 2012.

The School Committee continues to address its building facility deficiencies and
technology needs through diligent maintenance and carefully planned capital
projects, including the following initiatives currently in the completion phase,
underway or hopeful of being addressed in the near future:

1) The Village School: The final phase III of the Village School Repairs Project
   begun in February 2009 is currently completing its final punch list items. This
   follows the passage of a debt exclusion override in June 2008, after the
   Massachusetts School Building Authority (MSBA) qualified the $21.7M
   Village School repair project for up to 40% state reimbursement of eligible
   costs in May of that year. The final phase III of this project, the re-pointing of
   bricks and replacement of windows in the 1967 wing, which was approved by
   the current members of the School Committee to ensure the integrity and
   investment of the building and the work of this very complex repairs project,
   follows the successful completion of Phase I (Village School’s one-story wing)
   and Phase II (the three-story building). We reiterate our appreciation to
   Michael Rockett, the former chair of the Village Building Oversight Committee




                                        201
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


    (VBOC) and all the dedicated VBOC members for successfully completing
    Phase I (Village School’s one-story wing) and Phase II (the three story
    building) of this project, on time and under the Town voters’ approved budget.
    A special thanks goes out to Amy Drinker (VBOC member and former SC
    chair) who succeeded Michael Rockett to chair the VBOC during this last and
    final Phase III of the Village School Project.

 2) Glover School: In May 2011, the Town unanimously approved the revised
    design and cost plan for the New Glover School, a plan that would consolidate
    three aging buildings (Lower Glover 1916, Upper Glover 1948 and Eveleth
    1958) for 425 students in kindergarten through grade 3. This effort was co-
    chaired by then School Committee member, Patricia Blackmer and community
    volunteer member, Bob Schaeffner, AIA, who worked tirelessly and diligently
    with members of the Glover School Building Committee, the project architect
    and the owner’s project manager to scale back design and total project budget
    to $25.5 million. The MSBA agreed to a 40% reimbursement rate for eligible
    expenses on this revised plan for the New Glover. In June, the voters of
    Marblehead approved a debt exclusion override to fund the New Glover
    School. Currently, the Glover School Building Committee, chaired by School
    Committee member, Dick Nohelty, and comprised of community volunteer
    members with a diverse background, including construction, design and
    finance, has been meeting regularly, at least once a month, with representatives
    from JCJ Architecture and Municipal Building Consultants, our owner’s project
    manager (OPM) to review and consider final plans for the construction phase,
    which is expected to begin in July 2012. The New Glover School is projected
    to open in January 2014. During this period, the current Eveleth School will
    house both kindergarten and grade 1. The newly renovated Village School will
    house Glover students in grades 2 and 3 and will be known as Glover@Village.

3) Gerry School: This facility, now 106 years old, is, as to be expected, showing
   signs of aging. Ongoing work continues to be necessary to address securing
   exterior wood components, re-pointing portions of the brick façade, and fixing
   leaks in the slate roof. The School Department continues to be a responsible
   steward for this school in anticipation of the time when the Gerry School can
   be submitted to the MSBA as the district’s priority for consideration. As part
   of the MSBA’s requirements and process to keep the status of this building
   updated, the school department, once again, submitted a refreshed Statement of
   Interest (SOI) for the Gerry School.




                                       202
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


The Marblehead School Committee appreciates the generosity of this wonderful
community and its many parent groups, community members and local businesses
who give of their time and financial support to our schools. In particular, The
Friends of Marblehead Public Schools continues to provide significant financial
support for innovative education and extra-curricular programming through its
grants at our schools. The School Committee strives to support excellence in
teaching and remains fully committed to providing the highest quality public
education, within the Town’s fiscal means, that is based on content-based, rigorous
academic curriculum that prepares all our students to successfully engage in and
positively contribute to our society, and the larger world community.

                                             Respectfully submitted,
                                             EuRim Chun, Chairman
                                             Marblehead School Committee

             MARBLEHEAD PUBLIC SCHOOLS PERSONNEL
                      ADMINISTRATION

Name                              Position                            Telephone
Dr. Gregory Maass        Superintendent of Schools                    639-3141
        Carmen Darisse            Supt. Administrative Assistant
Kevin Meagher            Interim Business & Finance Assistant         639-3140
        Kerry O’Shaughnessy       Personnel Secretary
        Christine Curtin          Payroll Secretary
        Mary Valle                Bookkeeper
        Kathy Gallagher           Accounts Payable Secretary
        Amanda Maniaci            Clerical Para
Robert Bellucci          Dir. of Student Services and                 639-3148
                                  Program Accountability
        Peg Slattery     Spec. Ed. Secretary
        Amy Sheehan      Spec. Ed. Secretary
Ken Weinstein                     High School Principal               639-3100
        Margot Ivers              Principal’s Secretary
Debra Heaton             HS Asst. Principal of Instruction            639-3100
                                  & Curriculum
Tracy Crowe              HS Asst. Principal * K-12 Math Coord.        639-3100
        Anne Bontaites            HS Asst. Principals’ Secretary
Matthew Fox              Middle School Principal                      639-3120
        Donna Carey               Principal’s Secretary
Michael Hanna            Village School Principal                     639-3159




                                       203
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


         Maryann McKie            Principal’s Secretary
Brian Ota                Village School Assistant Principal       639-3159
Donna Zaeske             Bell School Principal                    639-3170
         Gayle Louisos            Principal’s Secretary
Sean Satterfield         Coffin/Gerry Schools Principal           639-3180
         Linda Mills              Principal’s Secretary
Mary Devlin              Glover/Eveleth Schools Principal         639-3190
         Barbara Hawlena          Principal’s Secretary
Mark Tarmey              Athletic Director                        639-3100
         Patricia Magee           Secretary Athletic Dept.
Francois Fils-Aime       METCO Director                           639-3100
Beth Delforge            Fine Arts Curriculum Director            639-3100
Sue Gravel               K-6 ELA & World Cultures Coordinator     639-3159
Kathy Comeau             Technology Director                      639-3100
Anne Scott               Lead Nurse                               639-3147
Richard Matthews         Director of Facilities                   639-3120
Richard Kelleher         Food Services Director                   639-3120
Karen Bourgeault         Grants Coordinator                       639-3148
Katherine Farrell        Data Specialist                          639-3160
Patricia Armstrong       Autism Specialist                        639-3143
Paul Tentindo            High School Special Ed Chairperson       639-3110
Mary Sue Niensted-Santos Special Ed Chairperson                   639-3120
Nicole Grazado           Special Ed Chairperson                   639-3148
Nancy Charest            Spec Ed Chair & Early Childhood Coord.   639-3150

                           FACULTY AND STAFF
Name                                 Current Assignment
Abramovich, Darlene                  Para, Sped
Abramson, Sandra                     Para, Sped
Adams, Diana,                        Custodian
Adams, Bethany                       Transitional Program
Addis, David                         Tutor, Sped
Agostini-Sheridan, Susan             Grade 3
Alling, Matthew                      Latin
Alves, Lisa                          Para, Sped
Anderson, Martha                     Cafeteria
Andrews, Lisa                        Para, Kdg
Angelopolus, Adam                    Grade 6
Antonucci, Deborah                   Sped, 7-8 Language Based
Archer, Jillian                      Psychologist




                                    204
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Ardman, Margaret                         Permanent Substitute
Audibert, Kathryn                        Cafeteria
Babbitt, Diane                           Grade 1
Bach, Janet                              Sped
Bailey, Marguerite                       Cafeteria
Bajema, Braden                           Tutor, Sped
Baker, Amie                              Phys Ed
Balboni, Robert                          Custodian
Barrell, Maribeth                        Sped Res Room
Barrett, Melissa                         Tutor, Reading
Barry, Judith                            Cafeteria
Bartlett, Paul                           Custodian
Barton, O'Malley                         Math
Battle, Jennifer                         Guidance Counselor
Beaulieu, Judith                         Art
Beckman, Rachel                          Grade 1
Beechwood, Justin                        Tutor, Sped
Belli, Natalie                           LEA/Social Studies Gr 5
Benton, Danielle                         Tutor, ABA
Berardi, Jennifer                        Tutor, Sped
Berg, Robin                              Grade 2
Bergeron, Kerry                          Grade 1
Bergeron, Leroy                          Custodian
Bernhardt, Terri                         Psychologist
Bial, Lisa, Tutor                        Reading
Billings, Jennifer                       English
Bishop, Kathleen                         Tutor, Sped
Bishop, Kevin                            Tutor, Sped
Black, Stephen                           Theatre Arts
Blake, Constance                         Grade 1
Blanchard, Gianna                        Grade 2
Blodgett, Amanda                         Grade 6 Math/Science
Boscoe, Padraic                          Para, Sped Therapeutic
Bouchard, Jacqueline                     Tutor, Sped
Bowden, Catherine                        Para, Kdg
Bowden, Denise                           Math, Gr 7
Bowen, Adam                              Grade 3
Boyce, Leslie                            Para, Sped
Brand, Rebecca                           K-3 Reading Specialist
Branham, Kristy                          Behavior Specialist




                                   205
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Breed, Mary                          Phys Ed
Breed, Nancy                         Para, Kdg
Brenner, Nicole                      Sped
Broughton, Alison                    Para, Sped
Bruett, Meghann                      Grade 3
Buono, Anna                          English
Buonopane, Kathy                     Computer Support
Buonopane, Susan                     Sped, 8 Inclusion
Bushman, Molly                       Tutor, Title I Math
Butters, Bryan                       Social Studies
Byrne, Katherine                     Biology
Calahan, Robin                       Para, Sped
Callaghan, Tawny                     Science, Grade 7
Canova, Diane                        Para, Sped
Carey, Cathy                         Tutor, Sped
Carlson, Charlotte                   Para, Lunch
Carlucci, Coby                       Social Studies
Carroll, Linda                       Para, Clerical
Carter, Melissa                      Para, STEPS
Cason, Sandra                        Para, Clerical
Castoldi, Catherine                  Gr 9 Res Room
Cavanagh, Maureen                    Special Education
Cecere, Michael                      Phys Ed
Cefalo, Carla                        Health
Chalek, Wendy                        Tutor, Reading
Chalifour, Edythe                    Cafeteria
Charest, Samantha                    Para, Sped
Chavez, Jennifer                     Latin
Chaykowski, Christine                Guidance Counselor
Christensen, Henry                   Tech Ed
Ciccone, Amy                         Para, Clerical
Clark, Lora                          Grade 4
Clements, Scott                      Custodian
Clifford, Andreana                   Tutor, Math
Clough, Patrice                      English
Clough, Linda                        Para, Sped
Cohen, Carolyn                       Para, Sped
Cohen, Rebecca                       Para, Sped
Cohen, Donna                         Para, Sped
Cohen, Craig                         Teaching Assistant




                               206
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Colby, Stephanie                     Library Media Specialist
Coleman, Rosalind                    Para, Sped
Colfer, Robert                       Social Studies
Comeau, Ronald                       Maintenance
Condon, Michael                      TIDES Grade 6
Conley, Karen                        Grade 3
Cook, Sarah                          Para, Sped
Corsini, Caroline                    Tutor, Sped
Costonis, Christina                  Grade 5
Cowan, Judith                        Tutor, Sped
Coyle, Carolyn                       Kindergarten
Criswell, Maryann                    English
Croke, Deborah                       ABA/Home Tutor
Cronin, Lenore                       Kindergarten
Crosby, Rosemary                     Nurse
Crowley, Brian                       Social Studies
Cruickshank, Kerrie                  Para, Sped
Culhane-Hermann, Catherine           Nurse
Cullen, Deborah                      Nurse
Cummings, Cortney                    Sped
Cunningham, Kristen                  Para, Library/Lunch
Curtain, Annie                       Para, Sped
D'Amour, Eileen                      Music
Dana, Gregory                        Math
D'Andrea, Melissa                    Gr 5 Math/Science
Darci, Maureen                       Kindergarten
Dartley Rocco, Maura                 Wellness
Davidson, Gail                       Cafeteria
Davidson, Lindsay                    Supported Kindergarten
Davis-Allan, Ann                     Sped, 7 Inclusion
Dawes, Edmund                        Science/Engineering
Dawes, Elizabeth                     Sped, Inclusion
DeBerardinis, Debora                 Physical Therapy Assist.
Deiana, Dawna                        Special Education
Delano, Judith                       Para, Lunch
Denis, Margaret                      Cafeteria
Devanney, Amanda                     Guidance Counselor
Devlin, Kristyn                      Para, Lunch
Dewing, Diane                        Cafeteria
Dewing, James                        Custodian, Asst. Head




                               207
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Dexter, Lesley                       Tutor, Sped
Dickenson, Stephen                   Physics
DiGiammarino, Jennifer               Tutor, Math
DiGiovanni, Marisa                   Para, Lunch
Dillon, Robert                       English
Dixon, Lelia                         Grade 4
Djelassi, Erin                       Grade 5 ELA/Social Studies
Doane, Marilyn                       Café Helper
Doben, Maggie                        Grade 2
Dodge, Elizabeth                     Tutor, Sped
Donaldson, Lindsay                   Social Studies
Doughman, Cathy                      Para, Grade 2
Douglas, Elizabeth                   Tutor, Sped
Douglass, James                      Custodian
Drummond, Ellen                      Grade 1
Duffy, Brianne                       Spanish
Duffy, Amy                           Grade 2
Duntley, Linda                       Secretary, Sped
Eaton, Allison                       Guidance Counselor
Edwards, Kathleen                    Tech Ed/Family Consumer
Elizabeth-White, Mary                Sped, PACE
Elliott, Jennifer                    Para, Lunch
Elmer, Kara                          Guidance Counselor
Elterich, Kristen                    Psychologist
Emond, Christine                     Tutor, Sped
Ericsson, Thomas                     Biology
Erikson, Melissa                     Grade 3
Erskine, Kimberly                    Physical Therapist
Fairbanks, Lee-Anne                  Grade 1
Fallon, Lois                         Secretary
Fargo, Eric                          Phys Ed
Feins, Robin                         English
Ferris, Linda                        Para, Kdg./Lunch
Ferris, Kathryn                      Band
Fidler, Grace                        Tutor, Math
Finnegan, Alyson                     Tutor, Sped
Finnegan, Jennifer                   Sped, Res Room
Finn-Welch, Ellen                    Spch&Lang Therapist
Fiore, Heidi                         Para, Sped
Fischer, Susan                       Special Education




                               208
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Fishman, Lindsay                        Grade 4
Fitzgerald, Cheryl                      Cafeteria Van Driver
Foley, Christopher                      Tutor, ELL
Forward, Maura                          Grade 4
Frankel, Dara                           Tutor, Reading
Frankhouser, Joann                      Psychologist
Fraser, Holly                           Music
Frawley, Patricia                       Sped, PK-K SAILS
Frein, Casey                            Grade 3
Friedman, Amy                           Spch&Lang Pathologist
Friedrich, Jennifer                     Chemistry
Futcher, Edward                         Math
Galanxhi, Tatiana                       Cafeteria
Gallo, Kelly                            Para, Lunch
Gambale, Melanie                        Academic Skills
Garrett, Karen                          Tutor, Sped
Garry, Benjamin                         Special Education
Gaskell, Marian                         Tutor, Sped
Gauthier, Allan                         Guidance Counselor
Gay, Betsy                              Kindergarten
Geary, Joan                             Science
Geraghty, Anne                          Spch&Lang Asst
Ghezzi, Jennifer                        Title I Math
Giardi, Michael                         Math
Gilbert, Rebecca                        Sped, Inclusion
Glabicky, Michael                       Para, Sped
Goldner, Paul                           Physics
Goodwin, Josene                         Cafeteria
Gora, Diane                             Grade 1
Gorman, Kelly                           Tutor, Sped
Graziano, Angela                        Grade 2
Greeley, Elizabeth                      Cafeteria
Greenberg, Mindi                        Spanish
Guider, F.                              Math
Gunter, Cassandra                       METCO Bus Monitor/clerical
Gurman, Martha                          Spch/Lang .8FTE
Guthartz, Randy                         Art
Guttadauro, Jae                         FL Spanish
Haley, Karen                            Tutor, Reading/Math
Halks, Judith                           Library Media Specialist




                                  209
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Hall, Phyllis                         Cafeteria
Halvorsen, Alice                      Grade 6
Hamilton, Anne                        Para, METCO Clerical
Hanson, Cara                          Music
Harmon, Paul                          English
Hart, Mary Ellen                      Title I Teacher
Hartel, Francis                       Latin
Haskell, William                      Custodian
Hastings, Rebecca                     Para, Kdg
Hecht, Elizabeth                      Kindergarten
Heenan, Brian                         Biology
Heller, Jonathan                      Grade 6
Herchenhahn, Mary                     Art, Elementary .8FTE
Herrick, Cheryl                       Sped, 9 Resource Room
Hertz, Amy                            Tutor, Sped
Higgins, Thomas                       English
Hobson, Alexandra                     Grade 5
Holbrook, Susan                       Sped Res Room
Holtzman, Sally                       Gr 4 Inclusion
Hudson-Leslie, Elizabeth              Grade 7/8 Language Based
Hughes, Ann                           Tutor, 504
Hughes, Kenneth                       Custodian/Bus Driver
Huller White, Shirley                 Visual Arts .6FTE
Humphrey, Melissa                     Social Studies
Hunt, Claire                          Para, Therapeutic
Introini, Jessica                     Grade 4
Jackson, Jacklyn                      Cafeteria
Jalbert, Jean                         Custodian, Head
Janock, Heidi                         Grade 2
Johnson, Carol                        Social Worker
Johnson, Beth                         Grade 2
Johnston, Elisa                       Tutor, Sped
Jones, Paula                          Grade 2
Jones, Bethan                         English
Jones-Tentindo, Marylyn               Para, Kdg/Lunch
Joyce, Michael                        Permanent Substitute
Juncker, Henry                        Social Studies
Kakulu, Cyril                         METCO Liaison
Kalpin, David                         Math
Kaltsas, Eleni                        Cafeteria




                                210
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Kamin, Shelley                           Sped Clerk
Kannally, Timothy                        Grade 4
Karns, Brigitte                          Grade 8
Kass, Debra                              COTA
Kavanagh, Joan                           Grade 1 Supported
Keh, John                                Social Studies Grade 8
Kelleher, Matthew                        Custodian
Kelley, Liam                             Custodian
Kennedy, Patricia                        Para, Sped
Keroack, Maria                           Tutor, ELL
Killeen, Caron                           Tutor, Reading
Kirane, Sarah                            Tutor, ABA
Knight, Katherine                        Para, Kdg/Lunch
Kolsky, Robert                           Custodian
Konz, Peter                              Tutor, ABA
Kraft, Ali                               Tutor, Sped
Kritikos, Alexis                         Tutor, ABA
Kunzer, Julie                            Special Education
Kuszmar, Linda                           Para, Clerical
Lallas, Catherine                        Guidance Counselor
Lamby, Juanita                           Guidance Counselor
LaMontagne                               Cara, Grade 1
Land, Howard                             Bus Driver/Custodian
Landergan, Catherine                     Tech Ed
Landry, Holly                            Tutor, Sped ABA
Lavender, Michael                        Phys Ed
Lavoie, Susan                            Tutor, Reading
Lavoie, Scott                            Custodian
Lawton, Peter                            Custodian
LeBlanc, JoAnne                          Secretary
LeBlanc, Mary                            Grade 6
Lechner, Elliott                         Custodian
L'Ecuyer, Lindsey                        Biology
LeFleur, Sandra                          Sped, Preschool
Legro, Phillip                           Custodian
LeGrow, Tara                             COTA
Lehman, Karen                            Photography
Lemieux, Jody                            Tutor, Reading
Lemieux, Dana                            Custodian
Lemieux, Robert                          Custodian




                                   211
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Lonergan, Barbara                   Para, Sped
Long, Amber                         Spanish
Long, Glenn                         Custodian, Head
Lovely, Laura                       Grade 7
Lovenberg, Erin                     Para, Lunch
Lucia, Beth                         Para, Sped
Luise, Judy                         Adjustment Counselor
Lutwak, Elizabeth                   Library Media Specialist
Lydon, Maria                        Para, Kdg/Lunch
Maag, Tracy                         Permanent Substitute
MacDonald, Melissa                  Para, Sped
Mace, Richard                       Custodian
Mace, Jayne                         Para, Science Lab
Mack, Gail                          Special Education
Magana, Elmer                       Spanish
Maney, Martha                       Para, Preschool
Marco, Pamela                       Clinical Psychologist
Marino, Kathleen                    Tutor, Academic Skills
Marks, Lindsay                      Social Studies
Martin, Melissa                     Therapeutic
Matson, Alexandra                   Spanish
Matuza, Sarah                       Grade 7 Math
McCabe, Sarah                       Psychologist
McCarron, Nora                      Psychologist
McCarthy, Laura                     Grade 2
McCarthy, Kim                       Para, Sped
McGrath, Danielle                   Phys Ed
McGrath, Kristen                    Nurse
McGuinnes, Melissa                  Grade 1
McGurrin, Susan                     Tutor
McIntosh, John                      Phys Ed
McKanas, Lynda                      Grade 4
McKeever, Charles                   Custodian, Head
McLaughlin, Janice                  Cafeteria
McLean, Gordon                      Math
McMahon, Julie                      Grade 6 Language Arts
McMahon, Maura                      Grade 3
McMahon, Deanna                     Nurse
McNamee, Kathleen                   Access Program
McWilliams, Laurence                Tutor, Sped




                              212
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Mello, Rena                          Special Education
Mellor, Margaret                     Para, Kdg.
Merrill, Melissa                     Tutor, Reading
Michaud, Maria                       Para, 504
Miles, Mary                          Grade 6
Miller, Joan                         Sped, 7 Inclusion
Millett, Michael                     Technology Network Manager
Minigiello, MaryBeth                 Para, Kdg/Lunch
Mitchell, Emily                      Tutor, Sped
Moody, Jessica                       Health
Moore, Kathleen                      Grade 3
Moretto, Denise                      Psychologist
Morley-Zender, Susan                 Tutor, Sped
Morneau, Albert                      Maintenance
Moses-Farmer, Barbara                Secretary
Moss, Maria                          Kindergarten
Mullarkey, Tracie                    Para, Sped
Murphy, Philip                       Phys Ed
Murphy, Lisa                         Grade 5 ELA
Murphy, Jane                         Physical Therapist
Murray, Dawn                         Nurse
Nash, Laura                          Grade 5
Neilson, Paula                       Kindergarten
Nesbitt, Tracy                       Tutor
Neumann, Carol                       Tutor, Math
Newsome, Jeffrey                     Guidance Counselor
Nicosia, Jennifer                    Tutor, Math
Nigro, Lauren                        Grade 2/3 Language Based
Nohelty, Tammy                       Art
Norman, Kristen                      Clerk, Student Activities
November, Donna                      Grade 3
O'Connor, Michelle                   Para, Grade 2
O'Flynn, Judith                      Kindergarten
O'Mara, Heather                      Orchestra 4-12
O'Reilly, Debora                     Science, Chemistry
Pagano, Justin                       Computer Support
Page, Carolan                        Tutor, Math
Page, Harriett                       Chemistry
Pasackow, Noah                       Social Studies Grade 7
Pasquini, Monika                     Spanish




                               213
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Passeri, Julianne                       English
Payne, John                             Marine Technology
Pedro, Christopher                      Para, Sped
Percy, Kristin                          Gr 8 Therapeutic Program
Perez, Lynne                            Spanish
Perlow, Sheryl                          Tutor, Sped
Perroni, Brenda                         Grade 1
Phillips, Raymond                       Custodian
Phillips, Tammy                         Tutor, Sped
Piccinni, Donna                         Para, Lunch
Pierce, Karen                           Sped Integ 3
Pierce, Stephen                         Art
Pillsbury, Susan                        Spch&Lang Path
Pittore, Patrica                        Grade 2
Poisson, Frances                        Para, Clerical
Price, Dawn                             Para, Lunch
Promise, Allison                        Para, Sped Preschool
Pruett, Elizabeth                       Grade 4
Pugh, Annie                             Grade 5
Purdin, Joy                             Grade 4
Queval, Pascale                         FL French
Quigley, Suzanne                        Tutor, Sped
Quillen, Lisa                           Grade 1
Quinn, Janet                            Tutor, Reading
Racki, James                            Custodian, Head
Raimer, Jennifer                        Grade 6 Math/Science
Raimo, Paulette                         Tutor, Sped
Ranta, Mary Ellen                       Tutor, Sped
Ray, Paula                              Para, Sped
Reardon, Meredith                       Guidance Counselor
Restaino, Gina                          Special Education
Reulbach, Christina                     Tutor, Math
Reynolds, Katherine                     Science, Grade 8
Richards, James                         Custodian
Riess, Susan                            Tutor, ELL
Ring, Jordan                            Para, Sped
Ritchie, Daniel                         Social Studies
Robbins, Anne                           Tutor, Reading
Robles, Javier                          Custodian
Rochford, Paige                         Occupational Therapist




                                  214
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Rodier, Jennifer                      Biology
Roeder, Amanda                        Music
Roeser, Kathleen                      Tutor, Reading
Rombach, Jeannie                      Tutor, Sped
Ross, William                         Custodian/Van Driver
Ross, Killeen                         Grade 4
Rothenberg, Suzanne                   Para, Sped
Rotman, Sandra                        Phys Ed
Roy, Joyce                            Grade 4
Rudloff, James                        Sped, HS Therapeutic
Rudzinski, Elizabeth                  Kindergarten, Integrated
Rumson, Janet                         Grade 5
Russett, Kristen                      French
Ryan, Nicole                          Art
Ryan, Connor                          English
Ryan, Micheline                       Math
Rydzewski, Kenneth                    Sped, 12 Resource Room
Sarnevitz, Shari                      Nurse
Schaffnit, James                      Grade 7
Schauer, Rachel                       Tutor, Reading
Schiller, Barbara                     Tutor, Reading
Schwartz, Scott                       Special Education
Scribner, Robert                      Custodian, Head
Scribner, Deborah                     Custodian, Head
Shapiro, Mary                         Grade 1
Shatford, Susan                       Tutor, Sped/Math/Lunch
Sheridan, Peter                       Shop, Carpentry
Shevory, Sally                        Grade 3
Sholds, Kristinia                     English
Shull, Willard                        Grade 7
Simard, Christine                     Cafeteria/Van Monitor
Simone, Francesca                     Music
Sinclair, Emily                       Tutor, Sped
Skalaban, Janice                      Business
Slattery-Sumner, Marjorie             Cafeteria
Sliney, Candice                       Spanish
Smith, Kathryn                        Grade 8
Smith, Karen                          Tutor, Reading
Smith, Nancy                          Grade 3
Smullin, Rachel                       Math




                                215
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Snow, Lyn                            Behavior Specialist
Soghomonian, Allison                 Library Media Specialist
Sojka, Szymon                        STEPS
Song, Kendra                         Math
Soucy, Wendy                         French & Senior Project
Spear, Susan                         Tutor, Sped
Spillane, Carol                      Kindergarten
Spinale, David                       Custodian, Van Driver
Steadman, Joanne                     Phys Ed
Steinberg, Sari                      Spch&Lang Path
Stelljes, Lia                        Grade 8 Science
Stevens, Caron                       Para, Clerical
Stoddard, Joseph                     Music
Stoll, Gayle                         Spch&Lang Path
Stonecipher, Timothy                 Guidance Counselor
Stout, Rebecca                       Music
Stronach, Tara                       Tutor, Sped
Stuart, Bridget                      Tutor, Sped
Sugarman, Lisa                       Para, Clerical
Sugerman, Jacob                      English/Social Studies Gr. 7
Sullivan, Jocelyn                    Special Education
Sumner, Gregory                      Custodian
Sweazy, Kilmer                       Technology Teacher
Taranto, Beth                        Para, Sped Grade 4 Inclusion
Tarasuik, Jason                      Custodian
Tatterfield, Martha                  Cafeteria
Taverna-Dennis, Barbara              Sped Mod Sped Needs
Teague, Leslie                       Para, Kdg Sped
Teague, Traci                        Para, Lunch
Tejada, Lynne                        Cafeteria/Lunch Para
Thomas, Barbara                      Kindergarten
Thompson, Cynthia                    Para, Fine Arts Clerical
Thorne, Nancy                        Tutor
Thornton, Susan                      Special Education
Tirelli, Robert                      Music
Tobin, Catherine                     Para, Kdg
Todd, Caroline                       English
Trainor, Stephanie                   Grade 6
Traynor, Veronica                    Para, Sped
Treff, Maria                         Tutor, Sped




                               216
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Trudeau, Dana                        Grade 5
Tully, Frances                       Grade 1
Turcotte, Lindsay                    Grade 3
Turgel, Shoshannah                   Library Media Specialist
Venezia, Stephen                     Social Studies
Voiland, Meredith                    Para, 5th grade inclusion
Volpe, Stephen                       Grade 5
Vona, Mark                           Math
Wachtel, Kyle                        Phys Ed
Wahtera, Philo                       Grade 2
Wales, G. Herrick                    Grade 4 Inclusion
Wales, Susan                         Grade 10 Resource Room
Walker, David                        Tutor, Sped
Wallace, Barbara                     Science
Wallace, Anthony                     Physics
Walsh, Thomas                        Tutor, Sped
Walsh, Katie                         Tutor, Special Education
Waring, Linda                        Para, Sped
Warren, Kenneth                      Music
Watson, Sarah                        Gr 4/5 Language Based
Webster, Leigh                       Tutor, ABA
Weiss, Laura                         Resource Room/Preschool
Weisse, Lynn                         Tutor, Sped
West, Andrea                         French
Whittier, Dawn                       Para, Kdg
Wilkens, John                        Social Studies
Willard, Marilyn                     Para, Sped
Williams, Pamela                     Tutor, Sped
Williams, Jillian                    TLC Program
Wilson, Janice                       Secretary, Guidance
Wolff-Variam, Cheryl                 Tutor, Wilson Reading
Wood, Enid                           Cafeteria
Woodfin, Lonna                       Nurse
Worrick, Ann                         Tutor, Reading/ELL
Xiarhos, Kristin                     Special Education
Yanow, Brooke                        Kindergarten
Young, Ashley                        Tutor, Sped
Zagarri, Lindsay                     Tutor, Sped
Zalanowski, David                    Physics
Zarni, Patricia                      Para, Sped




                               217
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Zimmer, Wendy                                     Spch&Lang Path
Zinicola, Jenna                                   Grade 3
Zolot, Jill, Tutor                                ELL




                                2011 MCAS SUMMARY
                                 Longitudinal Summary
                     (percentage of students at each performance level)


                                  Grade 3 System Wide

     Reading/ELA                  2007      2008       2009        2010   2011
     Advanced                      26        28         26          22     20
     Proficient                    48        47         47          55     57
     Needs Improvement             21        21         23          20     18
     Warning/Failing                4         4         4           3      5
     Mathematics                  2007      2008       2009        2010   2011
     Advanced                      30        37         28          37     18
     Proficient                    41        37         44          42     56
     Needs Improvement             21        20         21          15     19
     Warning/Failing                8         6         7           6      7




                                           218
               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                                 Grade 4

  English/Lang. Arts     2007       2008      2009    2010   2011
  Advanced                  18          13     20      19     12
  Proficient                63          54     50      48     55
  Needs Improvement         15          27     25      29     26
  Warning/Failing           4           6         5     4     7
  Mathematics            2007       2008      2009    2010   2011
  Advanced                  21          26     20      11     13
  Proficient                37          34     34      38     35
  Needs Improvement         34          34     41      46     43
  Warning/Failing           8           6         5     6     9



                                 Grade 5
English/Lang.          2007       2008       2009     2010   2011
Arts
Advanced               21          25         29       29     40
Proficient             56          54         51       52     46
Needs                  19          18         16       18     11
Improvement
Warning/Failing         3           3         4        2      3
Mathematics            2007       2008       2009     2010   2011
Advanced               33          42         26       31     36
Proficient             41          29         42       41     45
Needs                  18          20         20       22     12
Improvement
Warning/Failing         8          10         12       6      8
Science & Tech.        2007       2008       2009     2010   2011
Advanced               18          26         28       25     20
Proficient             42          42         32       46     51
Needs                  35          27         33       25     25
Improvement
Warning/Failing         5           5         7        3      4




                                  219
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011




                                Grade 6

English/Lang. Arts     2007       2008      2009    2010    2011
Advanced                17         28        31      21      29
Proficient              69         57        54      64      57
Needs Improvement       12         12        13      13      12
Warning/Failing         2           3        3       3       1
Mathematics            2007       2008      2009    2010    2011
Advanced                28         39        46      39      46
Proficient              42         40        32      35      33
Needs Improvement       24         14        16      20      14
Warning/Failing         6           7        6       6       7




                                 Grade 7

 English/Lang. Arts      2007        2008    2009    2010     2011
 Advanced                 21          20      23      22       18
 Proficient               69          71      62      71       74
 Needs Improvement         8          8       13      6        6
 Warning/Failing           1          2        2      1        2
 Mathematics             2007        2008    2009    2010     2011
 Advanced                 21          22      30      22       23
 Proficient               40          44      37      54       43
 Needs Improvement        30          27      24      16       28
 Warning/Failing           9          8        9      8        7




                                 220
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011




                             Grade 8

Eng/Language Arts     2007       2008   2009   2010   2011
Advanced               39         39     29     42     46
Proficient             57         55     66     50     48
Needs Improvement      2          6      4      7       5
Failing                2          0      0      1       1
Mathematics           2007       2008   2009   2010   2011
Advanced               36         43     40     47     53
Proficient             37         34     41     30     25
Needs Improvement      20         15     14     17     15
Warning/Failing        7          8      4      7       7
Science/Technology    2007       2008   2009   2010   2011
Advanced               6          8      9      15     18
Proficient             49         59     61     51     55
Needs Improvement      40         28     25     29     23
Warning/Failing        6          4      4      5       4




                              221
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011




                               Grade 10

Eng/Language Arts       2007      2008    2009    2010   2011
Advanced                 44        39      53      50     44
Proficient               47        48      42      43     52
Needs Improvement        9         12      3       6      3
Warning/Failing          1          1      2       0      1
Mathematics             2007      2008    2009    2010   2011
Advanced                 67        60      71      77     70
Proficient               22        26      21      13     24
Needs Improvement        10        10      6       8      4
Warning/Failing          2          4      2       2      2
Science& Technology               2008    2009    2010   2011
Advanced                           34      33      43     34
Proficient                         42      47      42     55
Needs Improvement                  19      16      13     10
Warning/Failing                     5      3       1      1




                                  222
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011




                Scholastic Aptitude Test Scores (SAT)
                      Marblehead SAT Scores
                      Critical
       Year                              Math              Writing
                      Reading
       2007              554              554                  548
       2008              550              553                  543
       2009               561               582                559
       2010               558               571                551
       2011               550               557                550

                           AP Examinations
        YEAR                2007   200     2009         2010         2011
                                    8
# of Students               128    158      135          152         184
                            176    210      208          257         319
 Total Grades reported

# of Subjects                 11       13       15        15          15
% Earning 3 or higher        88%      81%      86%       91%          83

                National Merit Scholarship Program
   Class of 2012 14 Commended Scholars
   Class of 2011 2 Award Recipients, 6 Finalists &
                 10 Commended Scholars
   Class of 2010 2 Semi-Finalists & 13 Commended Scholars
   Class of 2009 8 Commended Scholars

                         Advanced Placement Awards
        Class of 2011           20 AP Scholar Awards
                                14 AP Scholar with Honors Awards
                                17 AP Scholar with Distinction Awards
                                 5 AP National Scholar

        Class of 2010           13 AP Scholar Awards
                                11 AP Scholar with Honors Awards




                                   223
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


                               16 AP Scholar with Distinction Awards
                                1 AP National Scholar

          Class of 2009        19 AP Scholar Awards
                               13 AP Scholar with Honors Awards
                                 7 AP Scholar with Distinction Awards
               Post Secondary Report for the Class of 2011
              Size of Class:                     240
              Percentage continuing education     96%
                 Attending 4 year Colleges        88%
                 Attending 2 year Colleges          6%
                 Post Grad or Technical School      2%
                 Military                           1%
              Percentage going into employment      3%

                              Class of 2011
                 Valedictorian: Brian Richardson Drumm
                   Salutatorian: Laura Elizabeth Forte



      Sarah Accar                                 Alaina Kimball Breed
      Naeemah Gabrielle Adams                     Nicholas Glover Broughton
      Nicolas A. Alvarez                          Austin Max Brown
      Lauren Marie Angelo                   +     Shaquanda Radeen Brown
      Michael Frank Asaiante                      Julia Dorothea Burke
      Madeleine Lucienne Banderier          +     Justin Lee Burnett
      Bennet Hunter Barber                  +     Garrett Conor Callahan
++    Nathaniel Ari Barlam                        Paula Rocio Camelo
      Kaitlin Patricia Barry                      Daniel Joseph Campoblanco
      Olivia Grace Barry                          Ernesto Alex Capasso
      Malcolm Hayes Bates                         Davis Van Carroll
      Zachary Preston Beal                        Tatiana Elizabeth Marie Caswell
      Jamie Sarah Belostock                 +     Connor Ryan Cataldo
      David Kenneth Berg                          Serena Maria Cataldo
 +    Mikaela Rachel Blackmer                     Maxwell Joseph Celentano
 +    Camille Rose Blake                          Marco Antonio Chacon
      Joshua William Blayer                  +    Jordan Rae Chaisson
*++   Susan Eileen Boyce                     +    Nicole Marie Chaisson
  +   Hayley Jane Braun                    *++    Leah Sutter Chapman




                                     224
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


      Jeremie Gnahore Cheriza             ++    Seth Alkon Finkelstein
*++   Joshua Samuel Chmara                 +    Lauren Paige Fodeman
*++   Nicole Alexandra Clark                    Katherine Rose Foley
      Jasmine Kenya Clarke                *++   Laura Elizabeth Forte
      Gabrielle Elizabeth Claveau               Marisa Rose Forziati
      Austin Jeffery Coen (summer grad)         Lyndsay Marie Franklin
      David Samuel Cohen                        Nicholas Allan Fratini
  +   Joshua Adam Cohen                         Ariana Louise Freddo
*++   Lauren Jill Cohen                     +   Joshua Michael Freedland
      Daniel Pierre Colbert               *++   Colleen Kenney Gabel
      Daniel Collins                            James Thomas Gassler
      Kelly Porter Collins                      Tyler David Gelineau
      Rachel Ashley Conrad                      Melissa Eileen Gello
 +    Ariana Victoria Conte                +    Alexandra Denise Gerard
      Jacob John Corcoran                  +    Amanda Marlene German
 +    John Charles Crespi                  +    Liam Foley Gilliland
      Nathan Girard Cullen                      Kailey Katherine Gillis
      Dean Anthony Cuzner                       Olympia Rose Glenn-Scola
*++   Kelsey Sloan Davis                  *++   Charlotte Narue Ohye Goff
      Ryan Patrick Dempsey                  +   Madeline Anne Goldberg
++    Claire Elaine Depew                       Zoё Aviva Golub-Sass
      Andrew Paul DiMare                        Hunter Robert Graves
*++   Hannah Rebecca Dinnes               *++   William Ince Graves
  +   Jessica Lee Doherty                   +   Olena Ann Gross
  +   Philip Charles Donlon                     Hillary Guerrero
  +   Sophia Elizabeth Doughty                  Paul Sebastion Guerrero
      Nicholas William Dovidio                  Amanda Leigh Guy
  +   Anna Katherine Driscoll             *++   Laura Rose Hackney
*++   Brian Richardson Drumm                    Sean B. Haggett
*++   Michael Raymond Drumm                +    Kathleen Marie Hahn
      Anthony Jordan Ducoste                    Kaitlin Ellen Harvey
      Emily Riane Dumas                         Sarah Jane Hastings
      Gloria Louise Dumas                       Melanie Naemi Nangula Hatutale
      Kendra Janel Duncan                 *++   Katherine Elizabeth Hayman
      Justin Anthony Dunleavy                   Austin Matthew Heiner
      Michael Thomas Dusenberry           *++   Rachel May Henige
      Drexel James Erickson                     William Ryder Herlihy
 +    Amy Armistead Federman                    Charles William Heskett
      Ryan Patrick Feehley                 +    Katherine Joanne Hunter Hewig
 +    Brian Shaw Felsenthal                     Jennifer Lynne Hill




                                  225
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


      Maxwell Bogren Igleheart           *++   Caroline Elizabeth McCarthy
 +    Alix Sara Israel                         Kevin Lee McElroy
      Brett Robert Jackson                 +   Paige Thompson McGonagle
*++   Peter Field Jackson                *++   Emma Rose McGuirk
*++   Sean McNamara Jackson                +   Caroline Alexandra McIver
  +   Karli Elizabeth Jacobs             *++   Heather Lynne McKenney
  +   Kathryn Kristine Jancsy                  Patrick Albert McKinnon
  +   Celia Elisabeth Jepsky                   Christopher Patrick McLeod
      Billy Kaltsas                        +   Emily Marie McMahon
      Gabriella Thomas Kelley              +   Marisa Wynne Melnick
      Oliver Jung Soo Kim                      Allison Cave Mentuck
 +    Julia Louise Kingsley                +   Emily Heywood Miller
      John Lawrence Knight, III                Jared Ross Miller
 +    Benjamin Douglas Koopman             +   Rebecca Paula Miller
 +    Jacob Robert Kulevich                +   Tyson William Miller
 +    Emily Elizabeth Kuszmar                  Shayla Marie Monahan
      Griffin Kyle Lane                  *++   Arianna Michael Moscone
      Jordan Clark Lane                        Benjamin Troy Mourad
      Robert Alden Latham                      Joseph Henry Mourad
*++   Caroline Elizabeth Laub              +   Holly Beth Frances Murphy
  +   Kelsey Bryce Lauria                  +   Brittany Wheeler Murtaugh
      Trevor Daniel LeBlanc (summer grad)*++   Molly E. Nash
      Michael Brian LeClair               ++   Rebecca Leigh Ness
      Kristina Elizabeth Legget          *++   Christopher Pothier Neumann
      Kaela Jordan Lesburt                 +   Abigail Suzanne Nicolas
      Elisabeth Ann Leverone                   Luke Tirrell Norton
 +    Cristin Faye Lewis                       Sarah Margaret Noyes
 +    Sarah Molly Lieberson                    Elizabeth Patricia O'Brien
      Jennifer Ann Lucey                       Lance Ryan Padulsky
      Rennee Brielle Lux                       Caroline Grace Parent
      Brenden Doucette Lydon                   Spencer Scott Paresky
 +    Courtney Nettleton Maag                  Benjamin David Pelletier
      Robert James Magee                 *++   Olivia Monaghan Taylor Pennock
      Nicole Leigh Magnet                  +   Matthew Gregory Perlow
*++   Courtney Frances Maher                   Jessi Lee Pevear
      Paul Joseph Manning                  +   Maika Leigh Phillips
*++   Emily Hannah Marcus                      Gary Jacob Pivovarov
      Maxwell Baker Martinez              ++   Henry Emmet Pratt
      Aaron Matthews                           Bronte Katherine Price
      Eric Dennis Mauro                        Lorenzo John Price




                                  226
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


  +   Jessica Jean Prouty                 +     Jacob Matthew Syversen
*++   Olivia Morrell Raisner                    Matthew Thomas Temme
      Ariana Elysse Ratner                      Maria Terentieva
      Margaret Mary Reese                       Kalliopi Thanos
      Megan Jane Reiley                   +     Jessica Martin Thayer
      William McKendree Reiley          *++     Evan Joseph Thorne
*++   Katelyn Sara Rein                  ++     Wesley Clarke Thorne
  +   Katherine Lee Reines                      Olivia Grace Tosi
  +   Madeleine Blair Riley             *++     Bridger William Thompson Trap
      Nicole Elizabeth Roberts                  Samuel Broderick Trasher
      Richard Allen Roland                      Amelia Madeline Traynor
      Gretchen Hunter Rowe                      Benjamin A. Vannah
 +    Isabella Beloni Rocha Sampaio      ++     Donna Rachel Vatnick
      Amber Jayne Santman                 +     Jason Nathan Gene Veytsman
      Kayla Alexis Satchell                     John Alexander Viotto
      Justin Darrin Scott                 +     Joseph Aniello Walker
      Samantha Leah Scott                       Martine Amber Wayne
      Connor Andre Shea                         Brian Thacher Welch
 +    Casey Lynne Sheehan                 +     Dylan James Welch
      Rachael Elizabeth Shepard                 Dylan Christopher White
      John Carlsen Slattery             *++     Alexander Harold Tyrrell Whitmore
      Anya L. Slavinsky                 *++     Hunter John Benson Whitmore
      Eric Alexander Sloss                      Whitney Austin Williams
  +   Jake Campbell Smith                       Natasha Monique Wilson
*++   Sarah Elizabeth Smith                     Gregory Eric Worth
      Allison Ruth Solomon              *++     Rebecca Ann Xiarhos
 +    Ryan Nicholas Stanojev              +     Emily Sarah York
      Thomas Joseph Stockwell           *++     Julia Beth Zaltsman
*++   Kathryn DeMuth Sullivan             +     Melanie Claire Zemel



                      * National Honor Society Member
        ++ High Honor Graduate: 3.8 Cumulative Grade Point Average or
                             better (7 semesters)
           + Honor Graduate: 3.4 Cumulative Grade Point Average or
                             better (7 semesters)




                                  227
      School    PreK   K      1     2     3     4     5     6     7     8     9    10    11     12   Totals

      Bell       36    63    90    83    87                                                           359

      Coffin                       90    81                                                           171

      Gerry            84    73                                                                       157

      Glover                 85    80    94                                                           259




228
      Eveleth          84                                                                             84

      Village                                  238   237   212                                        687

      Middle                                                     269   242                            511
                                                                                                              October 1, 2011 Enrollments




      High                                                                   253   263   206   233    955
                                                                                                                                            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011




      Total     36     231   248   253   262   238   237   212   269   242   253   263   206   233   3183
                                                           1
              MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



                Five-Year Enrollment Summary




               10/1/07   10/1/08      10/1/09   10/1/10   10/1/11

PreSchool        32        45           41        40        36
Elementary      1036      1036         1043      1032      994
Village         707       736          733       714       687
School
Middle          463       475          480       475       511
School
High School     982       989          955       972       955

Total           3220      3281         3252      3233      3183




                                229
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
County of Essex, ss
to Any Constable in the Town of Marblehead
Greeting:

You are hereby required and directed in the name of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts to warn and give notice to the inhabitants of Marblehead, qualified to
vote in elections and in town affairs, to meet at the Marblehead Veterans Middle
School Auditorium, Duncan Sleigh Square, 217 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA, on
Monday, the seventh day of May next A. D. 2012 (it being the first Monday in May)
at 7:45 o’clock in the afternoon to act on the following articles in the Warrant for
said meeting as follows:

Article 1 Articles in Numerical Order
To see if the Town will vote to adopt an order requiring articles in the Warrant to be
taken up in their numerical order, as requested by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 2 Reports of Town Officers and Committees
To receive the report of the Town Accountant, the reports of the Town Officers, and
special Committees and act thereon.

Article 3 Assume Liability
To see if the Town will assume liability in the manner provided by Section 29 of
Chapter 91 of the General Laws, for all damages that may be incurred by work to be
performed by the Massachusetts Highway Department for the improvement,
development, maintenance and protection of tidal and non tidal rivers and streams,
harbors, tidewaters, foreshores and shores along a public beach in accordance with
Section 11 of Chapter 91 of the General Laws and authorize the Selectmen to execute
and deliver a bond of indemnity therefor to the Commonwealth, or take any other
action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 4 Accept Trust Property
To see if the Town will vote to accept certain trust property, gifts or grants to be
administered by the Town or modify the terms thereof, or take any other action
relative thereto, as sponsored by Town Counsel.

Article 5 Lease Town Property
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to let or
lease such land, buildings or structures owned by the Town on such terms as they




                                        230
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


may determine, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board
of Selectmen.

Article 6 Fiscal 2012 School Budget Additional Appropriation
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of
money to fund additional expenses of the fiscal 2012 school budget, said sum to be
added to article 25, item 101, schools, as voted at Town Meeting in May 2011, or
take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 7 Police Department Audio/Visual Monitoring System
To see if the Town will install audio and visual monitoring systems in the Police
Department for the accuracy and safety of the police and the public. These systems
to consist of two to four cameras, to be placed in the foyer and in the “booking area”.
These cameras to be of auto and visual quality to be maintained by an outside
company. Tapes should be kept for at least 120 days and be available to the public
upon request for a nominal fee. If systems are not working, the maintenance
company must be notified within 30 minutes. Systems to run on motion sensor to
remain active for 20 seconds after lack of motion. Systems should not exceed $9,500
with a nominal yearly maintenance fee to be paid for out of the Police Department’s
budget. Sponsored by Wilfred G. Gallien and others.

Article 8 Surveillance Camera Data
To see if the Town will adopt the following Bylaw:
WHEREAS the United States Constitution and the Massachusetts Declaration of
Rights provide for a right to privacy that is threatened by an increasingly
sophisticated and intrusive government surveillance of the People; and
WHEREAS we desire to live in a free and open society, not under the watchful eye
of authorities spying on citizens in public spaces, as is characteristic of repressive
societies; and
WHEREAS the Town of Marblehead has implemented a surveillance camera
program absent a full public discussion and town democratic participation; and
WHEREAS these cameras may operate constantly and record activities in public
locations in Marblehead, including public schools and polling locations, producing
digital images and other data that can be stored without limit and shared with private
concerns and law enforcement authorities elsewhere, including to the state police,
and to the federal government, including to the Department of Homeland Security
and the National Security Agency; and
WHEREAS the National Security has engaged in extensive data mining on private
citizens and has created databases containing vast amounts of information, as has the
Commonwealth Fusion Center, and the federal government has promoted police




                                        231
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


camera surveillance systems, such as a recent grant to the Marblehead School
District, as part of a massive infrastructure being created for government surveillance
of our activities; and
WHEREAS the creation of the infrastructure for government surveillance of the
daily activities of the People, using, among other things, networked police cameras
and government databases, poses a threat to our liberty substantially different from
and greater than that from privately owned cameras in places of business; and
WHEREAS such police camera systems used for general surveillance purposes in
Britain and other parts of the United States have been studied sufficiently to conclude
that such government camera systems are not effective at preventing crime; and
WHEREAS the digital images captured by the cameras will generally be available to
anyone who request copies under the Commonwealth’s public records law and can
be distributed further without any restrictions; and
WHEREAS no significant benefit has been demonstrated that would outweigh the
intrusion on personal freedom and privacy.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED;
      Any and all data gathered from any town owned or operated surveillance
          cameras, including those on the grounds of Marblehead public schools, shall
          be deleted 10 days after it is collected; and
      The sharing of any and all data gathered from any town owned or operated
          surveillance cameras including those on the grounds of Marblehead public
          schools, shall require the written authorization of the Chief of Police.
          Copies of the written authorizations, including information showing with
          which entities the data has been shared and the reasons for the data sharing,
          shall be retained indefinitely as a matter of public record; and
      The Chief of Police must provide written notice to the Marblehead Board of
          Selectmen each time the sharing of surveillance camera data with any entity
          is authorized; and
      The Town of Marblehead must provide highly visibly public notice in each
          location where a public surveillance camera is in operation. This notice
          shall inform the public that their movements in the area are being
          monitored, and if that data is recorded, the notice shall inform the public
          that their movements are being recorded.

Sponsored by Emil Ronchi and others.

Article 9 Unpaid Accounts
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of
money to provide for the payment of any unpaid accounts brought forward from




                                        232
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


previous years, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Director.

Article 10 Revolving Funds
To see if the Town will vote to authorize various revolving funds as required by M.G.L. c
44 s.53E ½, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen.

Article 11 Walls and Fences
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for the
construction and reconstruction of walls and fences for the protection of highways
and property, including engineering services in connection therewith; to authorize the
appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise, any
land or easements necessary therefor; to determine whether this appropriation shall
be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 12 Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
To see if the Town will raise and appropriate any sums of money for the purchase of
equipment for the several departments of the Town; to authorize the Board of
Selectmen to trade old equipment as part of the purchase price; to determine whether
this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Committee.

Article 13 Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for remodeling,
reconstructing and making extraordinary repairs to existing Town buildings and the
purchase of necessary equipment including computer hardware and software to
determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 14 Surface Drainage Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the construction or
reconstruction of storm sewers for surface drainage purposes, including engineering
and legal services in connection therewith, and to authorize the appropriate Town
Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise, any land or easements
necessary therefore; to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by
borrowing or otherwise; or to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by
the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners and the Board of Selectmen.




                                         233
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



Article 15 Water Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction, reconstruction and extending of
water mains, replacement of water meters, appurtenances, engineering, consultants,
surveys including revenue studies and other general Water Department purposes, and
to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by purchase,
eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements necessary to take any other
action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 16 Sewer Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction or reconstruction of sewers for
sanitary purposes and for sewerage disposal, pump stations, original pumping
equipment, metering equipment, safety equipment, replacement of said equipment,
engineering, consultants, surveys, including revenue studies and other general Sewer
Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or
easements necessary to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 17 Water and Sewer Commission Claims
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the
Board of Selectmen acting jointly to compromise any claims for damages or suits
pending against the Town of Marblehead on account of acts which may have
occurred during the construction of the water, sewer and storm water system or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 18 Storm Drainage Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the construction or
reconstruction of sewers for surface drainage purposes, and to authorize the
appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise, any
land or easements necessary therefor, to determine whether this appropriation shall
be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 19 Collective Bargaining (IUE/CWE –Local 1776)
To see if the Town will, pursuant to G.L. c. 150E §7, vote to appropriate the sums of
money sufficient to fund the collective bargaining agreement for fiscal year 2013




                                       234
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


with Local 1776 of the IUE/CWE, or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by
the Board of Selectmen.

Article 20 Collective Bargaining (Fire)
To see if the Town will, pursuant to G.L. c. 150E §7, vote to appropriate the sums of
money sufficient to fund the collective bargaining agreement for fiscal year 2013
with the International Association of Firefighters AFL/CIO CLC Local 2043, or take
any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 21 Collective Bargaining (Police)
To see if the Town will, pursuant to G.L. c. 150E §7, vote to appropriate the sums of
money sufficient to fund the collective bargaining agreement for fiscal year 2013
with Town of Marblehead Police Officers Union, or take any action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 22 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Administrative)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification and
Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Administrative Pay Schedule; to strike out the pay schedule
as it relates to Administrative personnel, substitute in place thereof the following new
pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of
money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 23 Pay Schedule and Reclassification (Traffic Supervisors)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification and
Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Traffic Supervisors Pay Schedule; to waive the pay schedule
as it relates to Traffic Supervisor personnel, substitute in place thereof the following
new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of
money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 24       Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Seasonal and
Temporary Personnel)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification and
Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Seasonal and Temporary Personnel Pay Schedules; strike out
the pay schedules as they relate to seasonal and temporary personnel, substitute in
place thereof the following new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds




                                         235
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


and/or appropriate a sum of money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 25 Compensation - Town Officers
To see if the Town will vote to revise the compensation of the Town Clerk as the
Town by vote may determine and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate
a sum of money to make said revision effective or take any other action relative
thereto, as sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 26 Financial Assistance for Conservation
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Conservation Commission and other
proper officers of the Town to apply for financial assistance from public and private
sources to be expended by the Conservation Commission for the purchase of vacant
land and any other purpose, authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General
Laws as amended, or to reimburse the Town for sums of money expended for such
purposes, or both, and to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Conservation Commission.

Article 27 North Shore Regional Vocational School District
To see if the Town will vote to approve the gross operating and maintenance budget
of the North Shore Technical High School for the fiscal year commencing July 1,
2012 and appropriate a sum of money for the Town’s assessment of the same, or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 28 Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to pay the Town’s share
of the costs associated with the design, construction, and furnishing of the Essex
North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District’s new District High School
facility for the fiscal year commencing July 1, 2012; to determine whether this
appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 29 Available Funds appropriate to Reduce Tax Rate
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate free cash balance in the hands of the
Town Treasurer, including any surplus or part of surplus in the Electric Light
Department for use of the Assessors in making the tax rate or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Director.




                                       236
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



Article 30 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the necessary and
usual expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2012, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Finance
Department.

Article 31 Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the supplemental
expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning July 1,
2012, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Finance
Department.

Article 32 Purchase of Ladder Truck for Fire Department
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purchase of a
ladder truck for the Fire Department and to determine whether this appropriation
shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Fire Chief.

Article 33 Flood Plain Bylaw Amendment
To see if the Town will amend the zoning bylaw of the Town of Marblehead as
follows

1. Article III

Add a new paragraph C as follows:

C. Flood Plain District: The Floodplain District is herein established as an overlay
district. The District includes all special flood hazard areas within the Town of
Marblehead designated as Zone A, AE, AO, and VE on the Essex County Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA, successor to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development,
HUD) for the administration of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). The
map panels of the Essex County FIRM that are wholly or partially within the Town
of Marblehead are panel numbers 25009C0419F, 25009C0438F, 25009C0439F,
25009C0443F, 25009C0532F, 25009C0551F, and 25009C0552 dated July 3, 2012
and as may be amended from time to time. The map indicates the 100-year
regulatory floodplain. The exact boundaries of the District may be defined by the
100-year base flood elevations shown on the FIRM and further defined by the Flood




                                       237
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


Insurance Study report dated July 3, 2012. The FIRM and Flood Insurance Study
report are on file with the Town Clerk, the Building Commissioner, and
Conservation Commission.

And

2. To add a new Article XII as follows:

Article XII

Section 200-45 FLOOD PLAIN DISTRICT

The Floodplain District is established as an overlay district to all other districts. All
development in the district, including structural and non-structural activities, whether
permitted by right or by special permit must be in compliance with Chapter 131,
Section 40 of the Massachusetts General Laws and with the following:

         Sections of the Massachusetts State Building Code (780 CMR) which
          address floodplain and coastal high hazard areas;
         Wetlands Protection Regulations, Department of Environmental Protection
          (DEP) (currently 310 CMR 10.00);
         Inland Wetlands Restriction, DEP (currently 310 CMR 13.00);
         Coastal Wetlands Restriction, DEP (currently 310 CMR 12.00);
         Minimum Requirements for the Subsurface Disposal of Sanitary Sewage,
          DEP (currently 310 CMR 15, Title 5);

Any variances from the provisions and requirements of the above referenced state
regulations may only be granted in accordance with the required variance procedures
of these state regulations.

Section 200-46 PURPOSE

The purpose of the Flood Plain District is to protect the public health, safety, and
general welfare, to protect human life and property from the hazards of periodic
flooding and to preserve the natural flood control characteristics and the flood
storage capacity of the floodplain.

Section 200-47 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS

The following requirements apply in the Flood Plain District:




                                         238
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011




A. Within Zone A and AE, where the base flood elevation is not provided on
   the FIRM the applicant shall obtain any existing base flood elevation data
   and it shall be reviewed by the Building Inspector for its reasonable
   utilization toward meeting the elevation of the flood proofing requirements,
   as appropriate, of the State Building Code.
B. In Zones A and AE, along watercourses that have not had a regulatory
   floodway designated, the best available Federal, State, local or other
   floodway data shall be used to prohibit encroachments in floodways which
   would result in any increase in flood levels within the community during the
   occurrence of the base flood discharge.
C. Base flood elevation data is required for subdivision proposals or other
   developments greater than 50 lots or 5 acres, whichever is the lesser, within
   unnumbered A zones.
D. Within Zone A and AE, all new construction and substantial improvements
   of residential structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated
   to or above the base flood level.
E. There shall be no “Manufactured Homes” within Zone AE.
F. No new construction or substantial improvements, or other development
   shall be allowed within Zone AE, unless the applicant demonstrates to the
   Building Commissioner that the cumulative effect of the proposed
   development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
   development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
   more than one foot at any point within the community.
G. All subdivision proposals must be designed to assure that:
   a) such proposals minimize flood damage;
   b) all public utilities and facilities are located and constructed to minimize
       or eliminate flood damage; and
   c) adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
H. Within Zone AO on the FIRM, adequate drainage paths must be provided
   around structures on slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from
   proposed structures.
I. Located within the Flood Plain District are areas designated as coastal high
   hazard areas (Zone VE). Since these areas are extremely hazardous due to
   high velocity waters from tidal surges and hurricane wave wash, the
   following provisions shall apply;
        a. All new construction shall be located landward of the reach of the
             mean high tide.
        b. Man-made alteration of sand dunes within Zone VE which would
             increase potential flood damage are prohibited.




                                   239
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


    J.   In a riverine situation, the Engineering and Conservation Administrator
         shall notify the following of any alteration or relocation of a watercourse:

        Adjacent Communities
        Bordering States (optional)
        NFIP State Coordinator
         Massachusetts Department of Conservation and Recreation
         251 Causeway Street, Suite 600-700
         Boston, MA 02114-2104
        NFIP Program Specialist
         Federal Emergency Management Agency, Region I
         99 High Street, 6th Floor
         Boston, MA 02110

Section 200-48 DEFINITIONS
The following definitions shall apply to the terms used within this Flood Plain
District Bylaw.

AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD is the land in the floodplain within a
community subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as Zone A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, V1-30, VE, or V.

BASE FLOOD means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.

COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA means an area of special flood hazard
extending from offshore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an open
coast and any other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources. The area is designated on a FIRM as Zone VE.

DEVELOPMENT means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to building or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.

DISTRICT means floodplain district.

FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA) administers the
National Flood Insurance Program. FEMA provides a nationwide flood hazard area
mapping study program for communities as well as regulatory standards for
development in the flood hazard areas.




                                       240
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM) means an official map of a
community on which FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.

FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY means an examination, evaluation, and
determination of flood hazards, and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface
elevations, or an examination, evaluation and determination of flood-related erosion
hazards.

FLOODWAY means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation.

LOWEST FLOOR means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement or cellar). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building's lowest floor, PROVIDED that such enclosure is not
built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design
requirements of NFIP Regulations 60.3.

MANUFACTURED HOME means a structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For
floodplain management purposes the term "manufactured home" also includes park
trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days. For insurance purposes, the term "manufactured home" does not
include park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles.

MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION means a parcel (or
contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent
or sale.

NEW CONSTRUCTION means, for floodplain management purposes, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community. For the purpose of
determining insurance rates, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which
the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of an initial
FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later.

ONE-HUNDRED-YEAR FLOOD - see BASE FLOOD.




                                          241
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


REGULATORY FLOODWAY - see FLOODWAY

SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA means an area having special flood and/or
flood-related erosion hazards, and shown on a FIRM as Zone A, AO, A1-30, AE,
A99, AH, V, V1-30, VE.

STRUCTURE means, for floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed
building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home. STRUCTURE, for insurance coverage purposes,
means a walled and roofed building, other than a gas or liquid storage tank, that is
principally above ground and affixed to a permanent site, as well as a manufactured
home on foundation. For the latter purpose, the term includes a building while in the
course of construction, alteration, or repair, but does not include building materials or
supplies intended for use in such construction, alteration, or repair, unless such
materials or supplies are within an enclosed building on the premises.

SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE means damage of any origin sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.

SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT means any repair, reconstruction, or
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the
market value of the structure either (a) before the improvement or repair is started, or
(b) if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage
occurred. For the purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the structure.

ZONE A means the 100-year floodplain area where the base flood elevation (BFE)
has not been determined. To determine the BFE, use the best available federal, state,
local, or other data.

ZONE AE (for new and revised maps) means the 100-year floodplain where the
base flood elevation has been determined.

ZONE AO means the 100-year floodplain with flood depths of 1 to 3 feet, where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable,




                                         242
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding
or sheet flow.

ZONE X are areas identified in the community Flood Insurance Study as areas of
moderate or minimal flood hazard. Zone X replaces Zones B and C on new and
revised maps.

ZONE VE (for new and revised maps) means a special flood hazard area along a
coast subject to inundation by the 100-year flood with additional hazards due to
velocity (wave action). Base flood elevations have been determined.
Sponsored by the Planning Board.

Article 34 Amend Dog Bites Bylaw
To see if the Town will vote to amend the dog bites bylaw adding sub-section 13-6.1
to read: Subject to limitation in 13-6, if any dog shall bite any person and it be
certified by animal control or a licensed medical person that a contusion or
contusions were inflicted, animal control shall upon the first offense warn the owner
or keeper of such dog, with each subsequent offense invoking a three month period
of restraint for such dog. Sponsored by Thomas Adams and others.

Article 35 Old Town House
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to fund improvements to
the Old Town House, including, but not limited to, making the building universally
accessible; to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or
otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen.

Article 36 A Ban on the use of Leaf Blowers in the Town of Marblehead
To see if the Town will ban the use of leaf blowers in the Town of Marblehead or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by Christopher Bergonzi and
others.

Article 37 Street Acceptance / Barnegat Lane
To see if the Town will vote to accept as a public way under the provisions of MGL
Chapter 82, as amended, Barnegat Lane, as laid out by the Board of Selectmen and
shown on a plan entitled, “Street Acceptance Plan of Land, Barnegat Lane,
Marblehead, Mass 01945 prepared for Paul Mazonson by Otte & Dwyer, Inc. Land
Surveyors, 59 Appleton Street, Saugus MA 01906 dated 2012 scale: 1”= 20’ which
plan is on file in the office of the Town Clerk, or pass any vote or take any action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.




                                       243
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011




Article 38 Hand-Held Wireless Telephone: Prohibited Use
    (a) A person shall not drive a motor vehicle while using a wireless telephone
         unless that telephone is specifically designed and configured to allow hands-
         free listening and talking, and is used in that manner while driving.
    (b) A violation of this law is an infraction punishable by a base fine of fifty
         dollars ($50) for a first offense and one hundred dollars ($100) for each
         subsequent offense. The fine shall be doubled if the violation occurs in a
         school zone.
    (c) This law does not apply to a person using a wireless telephone for
         emergency purposes, including but not limited to, an emergency call to a
         law enforcement agency, health care provider, fire department or other
         emergency services agency or entity.
    (d) This law does not apply to an emergency services professional using a
         wireless telephone while operating an authorized emergency vehicle in the
         course and scope of his or her duties.
    (e) The law does not apply to a person while driving a motor vehicle on private
         property.
    (f) Signs announcing the law will be clearly placed on all streets that are
         entryways into Marblehead.
    (g) Drivers from out of Town will receive a warning ticket for their first
         offense, but will be responsible to the law for any subsequent violations.
    (h) This law shall become operative on July 1, 2012.

    Sponsored by Jonathan D. Magee and others.

Article 39 Land Acquisition Lead Mills
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to purchase, acquire
or take by eminent domain, and to raise and appropriate, either by appropriation,
borrowing or otherwise, a sum of money to fund said purchase or taking along with
all associated legal and engineering costs necessary, the parcels of land located at
485 Lafayette Street (Assessor Map 55 Lot 1 and Map 53 Lot 3) and which is owned
now or formerly by Glover Estates LLC, the acquisition of said land having been
determined to be necessary for the health and welfare of the inhabitants of
Marblehead and to be used for municipal purposes; or take any vote or votes in
relation thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.




                                        244
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011



Article 40 Acceptance of G.L. c. 138 §17A
To see if the Town will accept the provision of G.L. c. 138 §17A in order that the
local licensing authority which granted seasonal all alcoholic beverage or wine and
malt beverage licenses may approve the conversion of one of such license per year to
an annual such license. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 41       School Department Computers, Support Equipment and
Technology
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
purchasing computers, technology infrastructure, support software and equipment
and necessary accessory furnishings and to raise the money for these purposes by the
issuance of bonds or notes or in any other manner, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.

You are hereby further required and directed to notify and warn the Inhabitants of the
Town of Marblehead aforesaid who are qualified to vote in elections and in Town
affairs to subsequently meet at the several designated polling places in their
respective precincts in said Marblehead to wit:


In Precinct 1 - Polling Place –
MASONIC TEMPLE
62 Pleasant Street
In Precinct 2 - Polling Place –
MASONIC TEMPLE
62 Pleasant Street
In Precinct 3 - Polling Place –
MASONIC TEMPLE
62 Pleasant Street
In Precinct 4 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
10 Humphrey Street
In Precinct 5 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
10 Humphrey Street
In Precinct 6 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
10 Humphrey Street




                                        245
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT 2011


on Monday, the 14th day of May next A.D. 2012 (it being the second Monday in
May) at 7 o’clock in the forenoon then and there to bring into the precinct officers of
their respective precincts their votes on one ballot for the following-named Town
Officers to wit:


5 Selectmen
1 Moderator
1 Assessor
1 Cemetery Commissioner
1 Board of Health
2 Library Trustees
2 Electric Light Commissioners
2 Planning Board
5 Recreation & Park Commissioners
1 School Committee
1 Water and Sewer Commissioner



For these purposes the polls will be open at each and all of said precincts at 7 o’clock
in the forenoon and will be closed at 8 o’clock in the afternoon at each and all of said
precincts and you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested copies thereof
at Abbot Hall and ten (10) other conspicuous places in Town as required by the
Bylaws not later than thirty (30) days after being closed.
Hereof fail not and make due return of this Warrant or a certified copy thereof with
our doings thereon, to each of the several precinct wardens at the time and place of
meetings aforesaid and to the Town Clerk as soon as may be before the said
meetings.




                                         246
