DATE POSTED: |
Town Clerk Use Only

nee DEC 1G PH Te 19

MEETING NOTICE

POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 30A § 20 Act relative to extending certain COVID-19 measures

adopted during the state of emergency

Marblehead School Committee

Name of Board or Committee

Address: Marblehead High School Library 2 Humphrey Street Marblehead MA 01945

OR

Zoom Conference: https://marbleheadschools-
org.z00m.us/j/978867628172pwd=ShT6kswajlCtbJ VaC2uY On| pdiv7fE. 1

Meeting ID: 978 8676 2817
Password: 610612
Dial in Phone +1 646 931 3860 US

Thursday December 18 2025

6:00PM

Day of Week Month Date Year

Time

I.

Il.

IV.

Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

Initial Business: Call to Order
Pledge of Allegiance
b. Commendations

c. Public Comment

d. Student Representative

>

District Updates — Supt. John Robidoux
a, Superintendent Update

Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills
b. Meeting Minutes; (12/04/2025)

School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

a. High School Advanced Placement Assessment Data
b. New Policies: Third Reading
i. ECAB: Access to Buildings and Grounds
ii. EFBA: School Food and Nutrition -- Meal Modifications

(vote)

(vote)
(vote)

ili. EFE: Civil Rights Complaint Policy for Child Nutrition Programs (vote)

iv. EHAA: District Security Relating to Technology (vote)
y. EHB: Data and Records Retention (vote)
b. Approval of Policy IKFE: Competency Determination (vote)
c. Policy Updates
i. EFC: Free and Reduced Price Food Services (vote)
ii. EFD: Meal Charge Policy (vote)
d. Appointment of Mark Strout to Essex North Shore Agricultural
and Technical School District (vote)
e. Headlight Student Newspaper
f. Student Services Update
g. Copier Presentation (vote)
h. Enrollment Update
i. Appoint members to Bargaining Subcommittee (vote)
j. Appoint Bargaining Team for MEA’s Accretion
of BCBA/PT/OT/PTA/OTA/CNAS (vote)
k. Sub Committee & Liaison Updates
i. Appoint members to Goals Subcommittee (vote)

Vv. Closing Business
a. Correspondence
VI Motion and vote to meet in executive session for the following reasons:

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3), “Purpose 3”, to discuss potential litigation by
former administrator, J. Buckey, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position
of the School Committee and the Chair so declares.

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(2), Purpose (2) to conduct collective bargaining
session with Marblehead Education Association, specifically to hear a Step Three grievance regarding the
Lead Teacher Stipend, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return to open session.

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3), Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to
collective bargaining, specifically to deliberate regarding a response to the Step Three grievance regarding
the Lead Teacher Stipend, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return to open session.

Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining, specifically with respect to bargaining
with the Board Certified Behavior Analysts (BCBAs), Physical Therapists (PTs), and Occupational
Therapists (OTs), as well as the Physical Therapist Assistants (PTAs), Occupational Therapy Assistants
(OTAs), and Certified Nursing Assistants (CNAs).

To comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid
requirements, specifically, the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22 (A, (g), relative to the School
Committee’s executive session on November 20, 2025.

Chair’s Statement following roll call vote on the motion:

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3), “Purpose 3”, to discuss potential litigation by
former administrator, J. Buckey, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position
of the School Committee and the Chair so declares.

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(2), Purpose (2) to conduct collective bargaining
session with Marblehead Education Association, specifically to hear a Step Three grievance regarding the
Lead Teacher Stipend, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return to open session,

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3), Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to
collective bargaining, specifically to deliberate regarding a response to the Step Three grievance regarding
the Lead Teacher Stipend, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return to open session,

Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining, specifically with respect to bargaining
with the Board Certified Behavior Analysts (BCBAs), Physical Therapists (PTs), and Occupational
Therapists (OTs), as well as the Physical Therapist Assistants (PTAs), Occupational Therapy Assistants
(OTAs), and Certified Nursing Assistants (CNAs).

To comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid

requirements, specifically, the Open Meeting Law, G.L. ¢. 30A, §§ 22 (f), (g), relative to the School

Committee's executive session on November 20, 2025.

VIL Executive Session

Adjournment
Hybrid Meeting Notice: Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person at 2 Humphrey Street
Marblehead MA 01945 or by the remote zoom connection provided. Please note that the in-person meeting

will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the remote connection.

THIS AGENDA JS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Chairperson: AL Williams
Posted by: Al Williams
Date: 12/16/25
Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-3140

John Robidoux Julia Ferreira LisaMarie Ippolito Michael Pfifferling
Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of — Assistant Superintendent of Assistant Superintendent of
Teaching & Learning Student Services Finance & Operations
MEMORANDUM

TO: Marblehead School Committee

FROM: Michael Pfifferling, Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations

DATE: December 16, 2025

RE: Schedule of Bills for Approval

Included in this packet are the following Schedules of Bills for your consideration. The schedules and

invoices have been uploaded to the shared drive.

Schedule

Amount

A26-22-DW-MSR

$344,476.35

A26-22-FAC-LM $59,194.79
A26-22-FS-CF $27,610.48
A26-22-SS-KG $173,801.82

A26-23-DW-MSR $33,734.12
A26-23-FS-CG-01 $6,274.46

A26-23-FS-CF-02 $6,492.70

A26-23-SS-KG $163,215.15
Total $814,799.87

Suggested Motion:

Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $814,799.87
DRAFT MINUTES

Marblehead School Committee
Chair: Al Williams

Meeting Date, Time & Location: Thursday, December 4th, 2025, 6pm, MHS Library, 2 Humphrey
Street Marblehead MA 01945

SC Members Present: A. Williams, J. Schaeffner, K. Schmeckpeper, H. Gwazda

SC Members Absent: M. Clucas
Agenda/Materials: Link

Meeting Recording:_Link

Minutes Respectfully Submitted By: Henry Gwazda

Opening Remarks and Public Comment (00:00:00--00:10:00)

a, Meeting called to order at 6:00pm; Pledge of Allegiance recited.

b. Public comments received:

* Reese Dahlberg (Fieldbrook Road) thanked MVMS English teachers, Principal Matthew LeVangie, and
district administration for supporting intergenerational book discussion event at Abbott Public Library.

* Sarah Fox (46 Beach Street) criticized announced school start time change, alleging it violated Mass General
Law and ethics law, reduced student learning time by approximately 36 hours annually, and granted staff
compensation increase exceeding 3% without public notice.

+ Karen Tal-Makhluf (11 Traeger Road, via remote) urged committee to review grievance filed by teacher
removed from lead teacher position after speaking out about antisemitism and consider reinstatement.

c. Public comment closed; meeting proceeded to student representative report.
Student Representative and Superintendent Update (00:10:00--00;24:00)

a, Student Representative Report:

* Football team defeated Swampscott on Thanksgiving; winter sports practices began; a cappella Sing Free
concert held; high school returned to 7:55 a.m—2:30 p.m. schedule

b. Superintendent John Robidoux Updates:

+ State graduation framework released following MCAS elimination; proposed components include
end-of-course assessments, MiCAP, capstone projects, FAFSA completion, financial literacy, seals of
distinction; most already in place; final framework expected June
* Roof contractors exploring April vacation start for MHS library and shingled sections
* METCO Director Casey Johnson coordinated visit with new METCO President Dr. Candice Sumner;
meet-and-greet held with staff and Racial Justice Team members

c. Anti-discrimination and Student Engagement:
+ Anti-Discrimination Committee discussed Holocaust remembrance, Commission on Combating Antisemitism
report, and reporting mechanisms
+ Superintendent Robidoux met with Ministerial Association and MAGIC Coalition students planning
student-led discrimination discussions

* Superintendent Robidoux and METCO Director Casey Johnson met with students of color seeking to be
heard; students developing positivity message to replace removed Black Lives Matter banner

Budget and Finance Report (00:24:00-00:30:00)

a, Budget status update

+ Assistant Superintendent Michael Pfifferling reported unexpended balance decreased $65,000 (from $3.34M
to $3.27M); salary encumbrances approximately 99% accurate despite dual-system operation prior to MUNIS
conversion

* Student Services Assistant Director budget line issue from previous meeting corrected via expenditure
transfers

+ Negative $227,000 budget line is placeholder for anticipated staff retirements; will be distributed to salary
lines after MUNIS conversion without school committee approval

b, Budget process update

+ Superintendent John Robidoux reported Budget Subcommittee met and established schedule; meetings with
principals underway to review staffing, resources, and efficiencies

* Committee member emphasized budget documents must be released to public simultaneously with school
committee presentation for wansparency

Consent Agenda and Policy Approvals (00:30:00—-00:40:00)

a. Consent agenda items:
* Schedules of bills totaling $403,727.82
* Meeting minutes from November 20, 2025

* Policy updates: EB Safety Program, EBB First Aid, EBC Emergency Plans, EEA Student Transportation
Services, EEAE School Bus Safety Program
b. Discussion:
+ Assistant Superintendent Michael Pfifferling explained lower bill total due to town not processing bills the
previous week
+ Kate Schmeckpeper noted EEAE changes were minor MASC-recommended updates; Marblehead-specitic

language unchanged
c. A motion was made by Kate Schmeckpeper and seconded by Henry Gwazda to approve the consent agenda.

The motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: Jennifer Schaeffner, Kate Schmeckpeper, Henry Gwazda, Al
Williams; absent: Melissa Clucas.

Memorial Bench Proposal and School Start and End Times (00:40:00--00:43:00)

a, Memorial bench proposal:
+ Elloree Jennings proposed bench honoring Savannah Gatchell at MVMS entrance
+ Fully funded through community donations

+ A motion was made by Jennifer Schaeffher and seconded by Kate Schmeckpeper to approve the memorial
bench. The motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: Jennifer Schaefther, Kate Schmeckpeper, Henry Gwazda,

Al Williams; absent: Melissa Clucas.

b. Auditorium naming update:
+ Community feedback reported as overwhelmingly supportive, additional signage and cost details requested
from Ashley Skeffington and Henry Christensen; matter to return for vote once finalized.

c. School start and end times update:

+ November 2024 MOA between Schoo! Committee and MEA changed student arrival times for 2025-2026 to
enable second elementary recess; MEA filed prohibited practice charge with MA Department of Labor after
August 2025 implementation.

» Settlement agreement approved by school committee in executive session on November 20, 2025, with Town
Administrator Thatcher Keezer participating; the vote was 5~1 in favor.

* Settlement terms: MEA dismissed charge and withdrew grievance; middle/high school times returned to
2024-2025 schedule; elementary teachers permitted to self-direct one PLC day per month December through
June.

+ Administrator-educator group to continue addressing elementary teacher prep time impact; school legal
counse! provided guidance throughout.

Executive Session Minutes (00:43:00--00:51:00)

a. Point of order raised that executive session minutes had not been voted for release before vote results were
publicly announced.

b. Motion by Jennifer Schaeffner, seconded by Al Williams, to release full minutes of all executive session
meetings related to school start and end times settlement.

+ Jenn Shaeffner stated settlement was done without public deliberation, constituted fundamental change to
memorandum of understanding, reduced dismissal time by seven minutes at high school, costing
approximately 36 hours of teaching time valued at approximately half a million dollars

+ Al Williams stated legal counsel advised settlement process was appropriate; executive sessions for pending
litigation and settlements are routine

* Superintendent John Robidoux clarified 2:37 p.m. end time had not been operationalized for at least a decade
prior to September 2025; $500,000 figure not accurate; minimal time lost

c, The motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: Jennifer Schaeffher, Kate Schmeckpeper, Henry Gwazda, Al
Williams; absent: Melissa Clucas.

Enrollment Data Discussion (00:51:00-01:05:00)

a, Enrollment decline analysis
+ Jennifer Schaeffner requested analysis on declining enrollment (2,754 to 2,511 students, loss of ~200)
+ Superintendent John Robidoux presented October Ist DESE data (2019-2025): current enrollment below
six-year average in every grade; annual average change minus 3.88%

b. Data tracking and next steps
+ Assistant Superintendent Julia Ferreira explained cohort tracking informs staffing adjustments
+ Administration will provide detailed data at next meeting showing where departing students go (homeschool,
private school, out-of-district moves)

c. Tracking limitations
+ District tracking begins at registration; children never enrolled in public schools may not be captured unless
identified through special education testing obligations

Policy Updates and Second Readings (01:06:00-01:17:00)

a. Policy EEAA (Walkers and Riders):
* Title changed from "Transportation of Regular Education Students" to "Walkers and Riders"; language
refined per MASC and Policy Subcommittee recommendations
+ A motion was made by Kate Schmeckpeper and seconded by Henry Gwazda to approve the updates to policy
EEAA.
+ The motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: Jennifer Schaeffner, Kate Schmeckpeper, Henry Gwazda, Al
Williams; absent: Melissa Clucas.
b. Policy EEAG (Student Transportation in Private Vehicles):

+ A motion was made by Kate Schmeckpeper and seconded by Henry Gwazda to approve changes to policy
EEAG.

* Discussion tabled pending Superintendent Robidoux's return to answer a committee member question

c, Second Readings - Five MASC-Recommended Policies:
* ECAB, EFBA, EFE, EHAA, and EHB reviewed; superintendent recommended adoption as written; no vote
taken (second readings)

d. Elevating Educator Voices Goal:

+ A motion was made by Jennifer Schaeffner and seconded by Kate Schmeckpeper to create an ad hoc
subcommittee to research how other school committees use non-voting members.

+ The motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: Jennifer Schacfiner, Kate Schmeckpeper, Henry Gwazda, Al
Williams; absent: Melissa Clucas.
+ Kate Schmeckpeper and Al Williams expressed interest in serving; final membership deferred to allow
Melissa Clucas to express interest

e, Strategic Planning Goal:
* Goal read aloud covering division of responsibilities, district improvement plan support, and strategic
planning framework for spring 2026;

School Conunittee Goals and Subcommittee Formation (01:17:00-01:23:00)

a, Combined Subcommittee Formation:

+ A motion was made by Jennifer Schaeffer and seconded by Kate Schmeckpeper to create one ad hoc
subcommittee to address both the Elevating Educator Voices goal and the Strategic Planning goal.

The motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: Jennifer Schaeffner, Kate Schmeckpeper, Henry Gwazda, Al
Williams; absent: Melissa Clucas.

* Membership deferred until all five members present.
b, Policy EEAG (Student Transportation in Private Vehicles):

+ Superintendent John Robidoux clarified background check requirements are met when drivers are
cored/fingerprinted staff or volunteers with parental consent.

+ A motion was made by Kate Schmeckpeper and seconded by Henry Gwazda to approve policy EEAG.
The motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: Jennifer Schaeffner, Kate Schmeckpeper, Henry Gwazda, Al
Williams; absent: Melissa Clucas.
c. Competency Determination Policy:

* Kate Schmeckpeper reported Policy Subcommittee deadlocked on DESE-required competency determination
policy following MCAS elimination as graduation requirement.

» A motion was made by Kate Schmeckpeper and seconded by Al Williams to have the fall school committee
receive a reading of the policy at the current meeting.

The motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: Jennifer Schaeffher, Kate Schmeckpeper, Henry Gwazda, Ai
Williams; absent: Melissa Clucas.

Competency Determination Policy Discussion (01:22:00--02:00:00)

a, Agsistant Superintendent Julia Ferreira presented draft competency determination policy following MCAS
elimination as graduation requirement.

* Requires mastery demonstration in ELA, math, and science through coursework aligned to state standards
* Required courses: English 9-10, Algebra 1, Geometry, Biology, additional lab science; US History added
2027

* Includes provisions for summer school, proficiency plans, students with disabilities, English learners, and
appeals

b, Jenifer Schaeffner questioned whether D minus (60) passing threshold should be higher; discussion noted
changing threshold would require broader graduation requirements analysis.

c. A motion was made by Jennifer Schaeffner and seconded by Kate Schmeckpeper to approve policy IKF as
written and to have the superintendent and assistant superintendent return in January with an agenda item to
discuss grade standards and how other comparable districts define passing grades.

The motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: Jennifer Schaeffher, Kate Schmeckpeper, Henry Gwazda, Al
Williams; absent: Melissa Clucas.

d. A motion was made by Kate Schmeckpeper and seconded by Jennifer Schaeffner to waive the third reading and
place the competency determination policy on the December 18th agenda for final approval.

The motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: Jennifer Schaeffer, Kate Schmeckpeper, Henry Gwazda, Al
Williams; absent: Melissa Clucas.

Meeting Schedule Changes and Subcommittee Updates (02:00:00—02:07:00)

a. Meeting schedule changes:

+ January meetings rescheduled from January 8th and 22nd to January 15th and 29th
* Municipal warrant article deadline: noon, Friday, January 30th; warrant hearing: April 6th

b. Subcommittee updates:

* Facilities; Henry Gwazda reported 75 early education survey responses showing strong demand for
extended-day childcare; Veterans Middle Schoo! roof under review by Marc Leibman

« Communications: Newsletters to be sent second Friday monthly; first story to cover budget roadmap

* Budget: Calendar to be shared publicly with key dates for superintendent presentation, public hearing, and
vote

Executive Session (02:07:00-02:10:00)

a, Motion by Kate Schmeckpeper, seconded by Henry Gwazda, to enter executive session;

+ Pursuant to Chapter 38, Section 213, Purpose 3, to discuss potential litigation by former administrator Jay
Buckley, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the school committee.

» Pursuant to Chapter 38, Section 21A2, Purpose 2, to conduct a collective bargaining session with the
Marblehead Education Association specifically to hear a step three grievance regarding the lead teacher
stipend.

* Pursuant to Chapter 38, Section 2] A3, Purpose 3, to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining
specifically to deliberate regarding a response to the step three grievance regarding the lead teacher stipend,

* The chair declared that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the school
committee for each purpose, without intent to return to open session.

b. The motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: Jennifer Schaeffner, Kate Schmeckpeper, Henry Gwazda, Al
Williams; absent: Melissa Clucas.

c. Committee entered executive session at 8:10pm.
igs!

ile: ECAB

|

ACCESS TO BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS

The buildings and grounds of the Public Schools represent a significant community
investment. The primary purpose of that investment is for the students of the school district.

It is in the best interest of the public that this investment be secured while nonetheless providing maximum
possible community use of the district buildings and grounds.

During school hours when school is in session, access to the buildings and grounds of the

Public Schools are limited to district students, staff, and those with legitimate business with
the school or district. Those visiting for recognized business must follow the district visitor policy and
accompanying procedures. Access to school grounds during the school day, except for recognized school
or district activities, is prohibited.

During outside of school hours and on non-school days, the public is welcome to use school grounds from
dawn until dusk under procedures promulgated by the superintendent. Such use is secondary to use by any
school or district activity or fo any community use as provided through rental or donation,

Access to school buildings after school hours and on non-school days is only for attending school and
district events or for uses authorized by the superintendent or their designee, Access within the building
will be limited to only those participating in the authorized event, Such access will be limited to those
rooms and spaces required by the event, including appropriate restroom access.

The superintendent will ensure that procedures enacting this and related policies are created and enforced.

CROSS REFS: ECA, Buildings and Grounds Management
IHBAA, Observations of Special Education Programs
KF, Community Use of School Facilities
KF-R, Community Use of School Facilities
KI, Visitors to the Schools

NOTE: Districts should ensure non-school-related access is shaped to suit local buildings and
grounds and appropriate local expectations. Districts also should adapt language for school facilities
not owned by, but used by, the district.

SOURCE: MASC —~ rewritten 2025
SCHOOL FOOD AND NUTRITION - MEAL MODIFICATIONS

The School District is committed to complying with USDA nondiscrimination regulation
(7 CFR 15b) governing the Child Nutrition Program and DESE’s Office for Food and Nutrition
Programs requirements.

In compliance with USDA and DESE regulations, the District will provide substitutions to
the school food service program’s regular school meals at no extra cost for children who are unable
to eat meals served because of their disabilities or other special dietary reasons.

1. Our programs will ensure that school meals offered through the district meet the meal
pattern requirements set by the USDA.

2. We will make substitutions to meals at no extra charge for students with disabilities or
other special dietary reasons that restrict the student’s diet on a case-by-case basis.

3. Families must complete the necessary request form that can be provided by the School
Food and Nutrition Program staff, or accessed via in the link below,

LEGAL REF: USDA SP 59-2016: Policy Memorandum on Modifications to
Accommodate Disabilities in the School Meal Programs and CACFP 14-
2017, SFSP 10-2017. Modifications to Accommodate Disabilities in the
Child and Adult Care , Program (SESP) sponsors
DESE Meal Modifications in Child Nutrition Programs

CROSS REF: STUDENT HANDBOOKS

Note: Program Operators/SFAs are encouraged but not required to consider children's cultural,
religious, and ethnic preferences when planning and preparing meals. Variations must be
consistent with meal pattern regulations for children’s meals to be eligible for reimbursement.

This information should be included in all student handbooks so that parents have
access/knowledge of this federal requirement.

SOURCE: MASC 2025
SCHOOL NUTRITION PROGRAMMEAL CHARGE POLICY

The School Committee is committed to providing students with healthy, nutritious meals each day so
they can focus on school work, while also maintaining the financial integrity of meal programs and
minimizing any impact on students with meatcharges for a la carte purchases.

The District provides free meals to all students (one free meal per meal service period). However, unpaid
meal-charges for additional meals, or a Ja carte items, place a large financial burden on the school
district, as food services is a self-supporting entity within the district. The purpose of this policy is to
ensure compliance with federal reporting requirements of the USDA Child Nutrition Program, as well as
provide oversight and accountability for the collection of outstanding student meal balances.

The-provisions-of-this-policy-pertain-to-regular-priced-schookmeais-only- The Schoor Committee wit
provide-a-regular-meal to-students-who-forget-orlose-their lunch money.
it

MealCharges and Balances

Each student will be allowed to take one regular meal per meal service period. Students may want to
receive additional meals, or to purchase a la carte items. Students will pay for additional meals at the
regular rate approved by the School Committee. Student Accounts will be maintained by the District
Food and Nutrition Program as prescribed by the District and delineated in the Student Handbook. and:
for-their-meal-status-(regular;-reduced«pricesor-free)-each-dayePayment-options- will be-delineated-in-
student-handbooks-and-providedto-parents-of-incoming- students“ fter-the-balance-reaches-zerorand:
enters-the-negative,-students-will-not-be-allowed-to-purchase-a-la-carte-items-including-but-not-limited-to-
a-second-entrée;-snack;-ice-cream: or-an additional beverage: The student will still be allowed to take a:
meal-and-thatmeal-will-continue-to-be-charged-to-the-account at-the-standard-lunch- rate based on their

meal-statts:

The parent/guardian is responsible for any meal charges incurred. If there is a financial hardship, a
parent/guardian should contact food services directly to discuss payment options such as an
individualized repayment plan.

Payments

Payments for additional food purchases beyond the regular meal will be made to the District Food and
Nutrition Program. Parents/Guardians will be notified of account balances or deficits are responsible for-
all-meal-payments-to-the-fead service program: Notices of low-or deficit-balances will be sent directly to
parent/guardians-via-email-or-regular-postal-mait-at regular intervals as prescribed by the Districtduring
the-scheelyear. At no time shall any staff member give payment notices to students unless that student
is known to be an emancipated minor who is fully responsible for themselves or over the age of 18. If
parents/guardians have issues with student purchases they should contact food services for assistance.

Parents/Guardians may pay fersneals:in advance for anticipated purchases beyond the free meal allowed
during each meal service period. Further details are available on the school district webpage and in
student handbooks. Funds should be maintained in accounts to minimize the possibility that a child may

Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated XX/XX/25
File: EFD

be without a positive balance in their account meabmoney-on any given day. Any remaining funds for a
‘ Pp in u ‘ ; Ys y. AnY 8
particular student, whether positive or negative, will be carried over to the next school year.

All school cafeterias possess computerized point of sale/cash register systems that maintain records of
all monies deposited and spent for each student and those records are available to parents/guardians by
setting up an online account (see student handbooks for more details) or by speaking with the school’s
food serviceff

ft
| of 2

Marblehead Public Schools ~ Approved 10/18/18; updated XX/XX/25
File: EFD

manager. The point of sale system is designed to prevent direct identification of a student’s accountmeal
status. Parents will receive automated low-balance emails-or-maited-notices=weekly=if-applicable. If
notices do not result in payment, parents will receive a phone call from food services. If the phone call
does not result in payment the food service manager shall turn the account over to the business office.

Refunds

Refunds for withdrawn and/or graduating students require a written request (email:pestal; or-in-person)
for a refund of any money remaining in their account to be submitted. Graduating students also have the
option to transfer funds to a sibling’s account or to donate to a student in need with a written request.

Delinquent Accounts/Collections

Failure-of-a-parent-or guardian to-maintain-reasonably-current-accounts-inay-resultine-referraktothee
Superintendentfor~his/her-reviewr-The Superintendent shall ensure that there are appropriate and

effective collection procedures and internal controls within the school district’s business office that meet

the requirements of law.

iferstudentis-without meal money-orra-consistent basis the-administration-may investigate the situation”
more~closely-and»take-further-action-as-needed:-If-financial-hardship- exists; parents-and- families are:
encouragedto~apply~for-freeor-reduced:pricelunches=for-their-child=Each school handbook shall
contain detailed instructions for parental assistance.

Policy Communications

This policy shall be communicated to all staff and families at the beginning of each school year and to
families transferring to the district during the year.

LEGAL REFS: MGL 71:72; USDA School Meal Program Guidelines May 2017
CROSS REFS: JQ, Student Fees, Fines & Charges

EFE, Civil Rights Complaint Policy for Child Nutrition Programs
SOURCE: MASC — Updated 2023 February-2018

2 of 2

Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated XX/XX/25
ile: EFD

ces!

|

SCHOOL NUTRITION PROGRAM CHARGE POLICY

The School Committee is committed to providing students with healthy, nutritious meals each day so they
can focus on school work, while also maintaining the financial integrity of meal programs and minimizing
any impact on students with charges for a la carte purchases.

The District provides free meals to all students (one free meal per meal service period). However, unpaid
charges for additional meals, or a fa carte items, place a large financial burden on the school district, as
food services is a self-supporting entity within the district. The purpose of this policy is to ensure
compliance with federal reporting requirements of the USDA Child Nutrition Program, as well as provide
oversight and accountability for the collection of outstanding student meal balances.

Charges and Balances

Each student will be allowed to take one regular meal per meal service period. Students may want to
receive additional meals, or to purchase a la carte items, Students will pay for additional meals at the
regular rate approved by the School Committee. Student Accounts will be maintained by the District Food
and Nutrition Program as prescribed by the District and delineated in the Student Handbook.

The parent/guardian is responsible for any meal charges incurred. If there is a financial hardship, a
parent/guardian should contact food services directly to discuss payment options such as an individualized
repayment plan.

Payments

Payments for additional food purchases beyond the regular meal will be made to the District Food and
Nutrition Program. Parents/Guardians will be notified of account balances or deficits at regular intervals
as prescribed by the District. At no time shall any staff member give payment notices to students unless
that student is known to be an emancipated minor who is fully responsible for themselves or over the age
of 18. If parents/guardians have issues with student purchases they should contact food services for

assistance,

Parents/Guardians may pay in advance for anticipated purchases beyond the free meal allowed during
each meal service period. Further details are available on the school district webpage and in student
handbooks. Funds should be maintained in accounts to minimize the possibility that a child may be without
a positive balance in their account on any given day. Any remaining funds for a particular student, whether
positive or negative, will be carried over to the next school year.

All school cafeterias possess computerized point of sale/cash register systems that maintain records of
all monies deposited and spent for each student and those records are available to parents/guardians by
setting up an online account (see student handbooks for more details) or by speaking with the school’s

food service] of

Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated XX/XX/25
File: EFD

manager. The point of sale system is designed to prevent direct identification of a student’s account status.
Parents will receive automated low-balance notices. If notices do not result in payment, parents will
receive a phone call from food services. If the phone cali does not result in payment the food service
manager shall turn the account over to the business office.

Refunds

Refunds for withdrawn and/or graduating students require a written request for a refund of any money
remaining in their account to be submitted. Graduating students also have the option to transfer funds to
a sibling’s account or to donate to a student in need with a written request.

Delinquent Accounts/Collections

The Superintendent shall ensure that there are appropriate and effective collection procedures and internal
controls within the school district’s business office that meet the requirements of law.

Each school handbook shall contain detailed instructions for parental assistance.

Policy Communications

This policy shall be communicated to all staff and families at the beginning of each school year and to
families transferring to the district during the year.

LEGAL REFS: MGL 71:72; USDA School Meal Program Guidelines May 2017
CROSS REFS: JQ, Student Fees, Fines & Charges

EFE, Civil Rights Complaint Policy for Child Nutrition Programs
SOURCE: MASC — Updated 2023

2 of 2

Marblehead Public Schaols — Approved 10/18/18; updated XX/XX/25
Policy: EFE

CIVIL RIGHTS COMPLAINT POLICY FOR CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAMS

The Fall River Schoo! District is committed to complying with Civil Rights Requirements in all
of its programs, including the USDA Food and Nutrition Services and DESE School Food and
Nutrition Programs, and specifically the Civil Rights Requirements outlined in Food and Nutrition
Programs Instruction 113-£ and the 2016 MoU between USDA FNS Civil Rights Division and the
Massachusetts DESE Office for Food and Nutrition Programs.

Any person alleging discrimination in the District’s School Food and Nutrition Program based on
race, color, national origin, age, sex, or disability, either written or verbal, has the right to file a
complaint, The designee at the District/school level will provide assistance to the individual(s)
including but not limited to explaining the steps in the complaint process, and maintain a complaint
log, as required by law.

LEGAL REF.: ENS 113-1: Civil Rights Compliance and Enforcement

NOTE: Procedures Template for USDA Food and Nutritions Services Complaints can be
found here, Districts are required by FNS 113-1 to establish procedures to receive
complaints, assist individuals with complaints, log, and report Civil Rights complaints
related to School Feod and Nutrition Services.

NOTE: The Superintendent or designee will develop complaint procedures

SOURCE: MASC 2023
ile; EHAA

sl

|

DISTRICT SECURITY RELATING TO TECHNOLOGY

The protection of sensitive data and technology is vital in supporting teaching and learning through
access to resources, information, learning activities, interpersonal communications, research,
training, collaboration, curriculum, and materials,

The Schoo! Committee recognizes data and information as resources that must be protected from
unauthorized access or use, and, as such, supports a balance of security and access. The Committee
expects district staff, student, and family data to be protected by adequate controls commensuration
with the sensitivity of the data.

The Committee directs the Superintendent to develop and maintain an effective district data

protection system of procedures for the protection of sensitive district information, Such
procedures should protect the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of district information.

SOURCE: MASC 2023
File: EHB

DATA AND RECORDS RETENTION

The School Committee recognizes that, as an entity of local government, every District record is
presumed to be public unless it may be withheld under a specific exemption. The custodian of public
records of the district is {X}; contact information for this position will be placed in a prominent position
on the district website.

The District is responsible for a myriad of records which vary in the length of time retention is required.
The Superintendent is responsible for ensuring such retention requirements are followed.

Under the Public Records Law, electronic messages between public officials, including public
employees, may be considered public records. As such, all district employees and the School
Committee will be given district email address, with which they are to conduct all district business, so
the district may comply with public records requirements.

SOURCE: MASC 2023
LEGAL REFS.: M.G.L.4:7; 66:10

REF: A Guide to the Massachusetts Public Records Law (Secretary of the
Commonwealth)

CROSS REFS.: BHE - USE OF ELECTRONIC MESSAGING BY SCHOOL COMMITTEE
MEMBERS
GBEE — PERSONNEL USE OF TECHNOLOGY
DRAET

File: IKFE - COMPETENCY DETERMINATION
One of the requirements for graduation in Massachusetts is a determination of competency in
subjects previously covered by the MCAS. In addition to other requirements for graduation,
students must have been determined by the district to have achieved mastery of the common core
of skills, competency, and knowledge in said areas, and satisfactorily completed coursework that
has been certified by the student's district as showing mastery of the skills, competencies, and
knowledge contained in the state academic standards and curriculum frameworks.

Competency Determination (CD) Requirements

A determination of competency shall include:

Demonstrating a mastery of skills in English language arts, mathematics, and science; and the
satisfactory completion of relevant coursework aligned to the standards measured by the high
school English language arts, mathematics, and science MCAS assessments administered in

2023,

An additional requirement for mastery in US History will apply to the graduating class of 2027,
and beyond,

‘To show mastery, a student must successfully complete, in accordance with Marblehead Public
School’s grading policy or by any other appropriate methodology as may be determined by the
District Administration:

{. The final assessment for a course; or

2. A capstone or portfolio project; or

3. An equivalent measure identified in the district's CD policy.

A student enrolled in the Marblehead Public Schools will be determined to have satisfactorily
completed coursework and earned full credit in accordance with the district's grading policy and

the requirements outlined below:

Content Area Coursework Requirements | Notes
English Language Arts Receive a passing grade and | To satisfy this course
credit for both the English 9 | requirement, the English
and English 10 courses. Language Arts courses must
be taken in grades 9-12.

Mathematics Receive a passing grade and | The middle school Algebra |
credit for both Algebra | and | course certified by the
Geometry courses, District meets the coursework
requirement for the
mathematics component of
the CD. The Geometry course
must be taken in grades 9-12.

Science Receive a passing grade and _| To satisfy this course
credit for Biology and an requirement, the science
additional lab science course | course must be taken in
(Chemistry, Physics, or grades 9-12.
Engineering).

US. History (Beginning with | Receive a passing grade and | To satisfy this course

the graduating class of 2027) | credit for United States requirement, the U.S. History
History. course must be taken in
grades 9-12,

Aligned Courses

Marblehead Public Schools offers courses in alignment with the state curriculum frameworks
that meet the above requirements. Students will demonstrate mastery in cach content area
(English, Math, History, and Science), by receiving a passing grade and credit for each of the
following courses: English 9, English 10, Algebra 1, Geometry, US History, Biology, and
Chemistry, Physics, or Engineering,

Summer school progranuning will be provided for students who fail a course(s) requiring a
passing grade for Competency Determination.

Students who do not pass the courses as outlined above will be placed on a Proficiency Plan in
which the student will demonstrate evidence of meeting the learning standards of the course(s)
from student work, such as classroom assignments, projects, and assessments. The applicable
courses for the proficiency plan will be in the categories as outlined - English, Math, Science,
and/or US History. A student’s proficiency will be assessed by the Principal or designee,

Additional Considerations
Students with Disabilities

The Marblehead Public Schools must both provide a Free and Appropriate Public Education to
students with disabilities and must also determine that the student has met the competency
determination and local graduation requirements prior to graduating that student. Students with
disabilities who have been placed in out-of-district placements must meet the requirements of the
competency determination policy of the placing schoo! district. Discussion of the Competency
Determination must be a part of the Individualized Education Plan Team's transition planning.

The Individualized Education Plan (IEP) team will use professional judgment to determine if'a
student with significant cognitive disabilities is eligible for this alternative portfolio assessment,

considering the individual student’s needs.

English Language Learners

The Matblehead Public Schools shall, on a case-by-case basis, determine the appropriate courses
necessary for English Language Learners to both achieve language proficiency and meet the
competency determination requirements.

Late-Enrolling Students

Students who enroll in Marblehead High School after their ninth-grade year may be granted a
determination of competency by the Marblehead Public Schools in one or more of the following

ways:

+ Transcript review by the school principal,

+ A qualifying MCAS score of at least meeting or exceeding expectations achievement
levels on the relevant high school MCAS assessment; or by meeting the standard for a
substituted equivalent that the District certifies satisfies the same academic standards,

Appeals Process

Current students and/or parents/guardians may appeal the determination of competency in
accordance with the following District procedures:

1) Appeals must be submitted to the Marbichead High School Principal.
2) If unsatisfied with the appeal to the Marblehead High Schoo] Principal, the cutrent
student and/or parents/guardians may appeal to the Superintendent.

The amended CD regulations also include a provision that allows the DESE Commissioner to
waive a provision of the regulations for good cause, upon a written request from the district.

LEGAL REFS: DESE Graduation Requirements and Related Guidance
D Graduation and Transition Planning for Students with TEPs
DESE Competency Determination Guidance and Policy Submission Process
603 CMR 30.00
M.GLL, c. 69,8 1D

CROSS REFS: Student Handbook
IKF, Graduation Requirements

SOURCE: MASC - 2025
File: EFC

UNIVERSAL FREE SCHOOL MEALS

The Schoo! Committee is committed to providing students with healthy, nutritious meals cach day so they can focus
on school work, while also maintaining the financial integrity of meal programs, and to ensure compliance with
federal reporting requirements of the USDA Child Nutrition Program.

The District will participate in the National School Lunch Program, the Massachusetts Universal Free Meals
Program, and other food programs that may become available to assure that all students in the schools receive
healthy, nutritious school meals.

In accordance with guidelines for participation in these programs, the District will provide universal free meals to
all students in the District.

Students seeking additional meals or a la carte items will be charged accordingly for those additional items.

Each student in the District is entitled to (1) free breakfast, (1) free lunch, and (1) free snack (where provided by the
District.)

@ It remains important that families complete the annual Household Application for Free and Reduced Price
Meals. This form allows the school district to serve families more effectively for other important programs
such as P-EBT benefits, fee waivers for school district programs/ services, (as determined by each school
district), state and federal grant eligibility, and more.

© Districts participating through the Community Eligibility Provision (CEP), serve breakfast and lunch

at no cost to all enrolled students without collecting household applications.

As required by state and federal regulations, the School Committee approves this policy statement pertaining to
eligibility for universal free schoo! meals for all students in the District.

CROSS REF: EFE, Civil Rights Complaint Policy for Child Nutrition Programs

LEGAL REFS:.: National School Lunch Act, as amended (42 USC 1751-1760);
Child Nutrition Act of 1966; P.L. 89-642, 80 Stat. 885, as amended;
USDA School Meal Program Guidelines May 2017;
M.G.L. 71:72; 15:1G; 69:1C;
Chapter 28 of the Acts of 2023 7053-1909

SOURCE: MASC — Complete rewrite 2023
Marblehead High School
Advanced Placement

Prepared by: Danielle Mosher and Susan Shatford

For Marblehead School Committee, December 18, 2025
AP Classes at MHS

Art

e 2-DArt & Design (new 2026)
e Art History

English

English Language & Composition
English Literature & Composition
Research (new 2025)

Seminar (new 2024)

World Language

e French Language & Culture
e Latin
e Spanish Language & Culture

History
e European History
e Psychology (new 2025)
e United States Government & Politics
e United States History

Math
e Calculus AB
e Calculus BC
e Computer Science Principles
e Statistics
Science
e Biology
e Chemistry
e Environmental Science
e Physics C: Mechanics
AP Classes at MHS

Art

“AP Art History gave me the opportunity to span

: such an extensive timeline and really put into
9 2-D Art & Design (new Zz 02 6) perspective not just events of history, but the
r Art Histo emotions and worldviews of the people at that
ry’ ; _ time. Since [this] class, I feel so much more
;

ee sah connected to history and it has totally shaped my
5] = e : learning from then on.”

Aoife S., Class of 2025

“AP Art History is one of the most interesting courses so far. The intersection
between art and history is unique. It has inspired me to take similar classes in
college. The course was a great representation of art around the world and
different mediums. Ms. Huller White did a great job teaching the class.”

Will C., Class of 2026

AP Classes at MHS
English

e English Language &
Composition

e English Literature &
Composition

e Research (new 2025)

e Seminar (new 2024)

“AP Research is a class that allows students to dive into a passion. The best part is the fact that the
College Board has the students focus on the process, not the product. This allows the students to
choose a project that is "a reach" or "out of the ordinary" and may fail -- all they need to do is
articulate what failed and how. This encourages students to learn from failure. One student's
project last year, in fact, failed. Their paper and presentation told the story of true learning. The
student earned a high score from the College Board.”

“AP Seminar taught us how to present
confidently, conduct intentional research,
and learn how to use various resources.”

Hailey G. & Greta S., Class of 2026

Ms. Feins, AP Research Teacher
AP Classes at MHS

World Language

e French Language & Culture

e Latin
e Spanish Language & Culture

“In AP Latin, my teacher combines literal & interpretive
translations along with cultural context. Learning about culture

helps with translating complex documents.”

Kathleen H., Class of 2026

“In AP Spanish we look at Spanish news videos,
analyze the information and share it with others in the
class. As a native speaker, this class is helping me
become more fluent in reading and writing.”

Dante N., Class of 2027
AP Classes at MHS

History

e European History

e Psychology (new 2025)

e United States
Government & Politics

e United States History

“In AP Psychology, we did a lot of projects that helped us relate to
various psychology principles. In college, I plan on majoring in

psychology.”
Grace R., Class of 2026

“T like history & the accelerated pace of AP European History. Mr.

“In AP Gov, Mr. Costello encourages discussion so we can voice our
Butters is passionate about what he teaches.”

opinions. A lot of us are turning 18, so its good to know what is
going on even if we’re not going into politics.
° ° Noah V., Class of 2028

Quinn H., Class of 2026
AP Classes at MHS

Math

Calculus AB
Calculus BC
Computer Science
Principles

e Statistics

“AP Calculus AB is a rigorous and challenging course, but Mr.
Giardi is there to help as needed. I struggled last year with
Precaluculs, but I am learning a lot in AP Calculus AB.”

Tessa F., Class of 2026

“AP Computer Science Principles is an independent
learning type of class where you can make your own
code. Ms. Waitkevich helps us & we learn different ways
of making our code work.”

Finn G., Class of 2026
v AP Classes at MHS

Science

e Biology
Chemistry
Environmental S Cl ence “I genuinely enjoy the principles of AP Physics C: Mechanics and find

the class rewarding. It helps me to look at things in the world and

Physics C o Mechanics understand how they work. This is something I am going to study in

college.”

Brady L., Class of 2026

“I've had a number of students take AP Environmental Science & decide
to pursue a related career. It's wonderful to see students inspired by what

they learn in the class!”

Mrs. Rodgers, AP Environmental Science Teacher

Marblehead High School
AP Enrollment Summary (2023-2025)

2023 2024 2025
Total AP Students | 342 360 | 376
Number of Exams | 677 | 767 | 926

_ AP Students with Scores 3+ | 236 | 295 327

% of Total AP Students with Scores 3+ | 69% | 82% | 87%

bs, | Three Year AP Score Summary

% of Total AP Students with Scores 3+

100%

82% she

75%

50%

25%

0%

2023 2024 2025
Ds, MHS School Enrollment Information - 2026

| Total # of Students (grades 10-12) | 595

| Total # of AP Students (353

'% Students taking AP Exams 59% of grades 10-12 students
Total # of AP Exams 829

| Students taking 1 or 2 Exams 220 (62%)

| Students taking 3 or More Exams 133 (38%)

Ne AP District Comparisons - DESE DART 2023-2024

District # AP Subject # AP Exams Taken % Scored 1 & 2 % Scored 3+
Exams Taken
Wayland 22 655 5 95
Westford 24 934 7 93
Bedford 28 531 l 89

Wilmington 21 343 19 81
Grafton 17 390 20 80
Holliston 22 452 20 80
Nashoba 23) 529 20 80
Groton-Dunstable 19 370 27 73
Lynnfield 19 520 32 68
Wakefield 23 444 35 65

AP Capstone

AP Courses:
e Seminar
e Research

Students are required to:
e Analyze topics through multiple lenses to construct meaning or gain understanding
Plan and conduct a study or investigation
Propose solutions to real-world problems
Plan and produce communication in various forms
Collaborate to solve a problem

Integrate, synthesize, and make cross-curricular connections

Assessment:
e Teacher scored presentation components
e College Board scored written components
e End of course exam
AP Capstone (continued)

Awards:

e AP Capstone - 3 or higher on Seminar and Research & 4 additional AP exams of their choosing
e AP Seminar and Research Certificate - 3 or higher on Seminar and Research, but not on four
additional AP Exams

AP Seminar
Year 1

Earn score of 3 or higher

AP Capstone AP Seminar
Diploma” AP Research and Research
Year 2 Certificate”

Earn score of 3 or higher

4 AP Exams
Throughout High School
Earn score of 3 or higher

AP 2025 Awards at MHS

194 Awards

64 AP Scholar
o Granted to students who receive scores of 3 or higher on three or more AP Exams
41 AP Scholar w/Honors
o Granted to students who receive an average score of at least 3.25 on all AP Exams taken, and scores of 3 or
higher on four or more of these exams.
83 AP Scholar w/Distinction
o Granted to students who receive an average score of at least 3.25 on all AP Exams taken, and scores of 3 or
higher on five or more of these exams.
1 AP International Diploma
o Awarded to students who display exceptional achievement across a variety of disciplines.
mu Attend a school outside of the U.S. or send AP scores to a university outside the U.S.
= Students must score a 3 or higher on 5 or more AP Exams.

a Exams must fulfill 4 content areas, outlined below.

Any 2 eligible AP world language exams or English exams if the exams are across 2 different languages
One AP Exam offering a global perspective

One AP Exam from either math and computer science or the sciences

One additional AP Exam (can’t be English or any of the world languages except Latin)

2 AP Capstone - 3 or higher on Seminar and Research & 4 additional AP exams of their choosing

3 AP Seminar and Research Certificate - 3 or higher on Seminar and Research, but not on four additional AP Exams
Thank you for your
continued support of the
Advanced Placement
Program at Marblehead
High School!
December 10, 2025

Marblehead School Committee
Marblehead School Department
9 Widger Road

Marblehead, MA 01945

Dear Members of the School Committee,

In accordance with the Bylaws Governing the Operation of the Essex North Shore Agricultural
and Technical School District, 1 am writing to formally request your consent for the
reappointment of Mark Strout as Marblehead’s representative to the Essex North Shore
Agricultural and Technical School District for a new three-year term beginning January 1, 2026.

This request follows a strong and thoughtful recommendation from Essex Tech leadership and
reflects my own continued respect and appreciation for the dedicated work Mark has provided on
behalf of Marblehead. His service has been consistently diligent, constructive, and community-
minded, and I believe the Town is well served by his ongoing representation,

Given the commencement of the upcoming term on January 1, 2026, I would appreciate the
Committee’s prompt attention to this matter so that Marblehead’s seat is renewed without
interruption.

Thank you for your consideration,

Sincerely,

Town Moderator
Marblehead Schoo] Committee

9 Widger Road,
MARBLEHEAD Marblehead, MA 01945

. phone: 781.639.3140 x10114
PUBLIC SCHO OLS email:schoolcommittee@marbleheadschools.org
Sarah Gold © Meagan Taylor Emily Barton David Hattis Jr. Satah Fox
Chairman Vice Chaicman Committee Member Committee Member Secretary
June 6, 2022
Gary A Spiess
Town Moderator

Re: Essex Tech Representative

Dear Mr, Spiess,

‘The following resolution was duly adopted at a meeting of the Marblehead School Committee
on May 19, 2022.

Resolved that the Marblehead school Committee herby consents to and concurs with
the re-appointment, by Gary A. Spiess the Town Moderator, of Mark B. Strout to a new three
year term and the Town’s representative on the School Cornmittee of the Essex North Shore

Agricultural and Technical School District, such term to commence on January 1, 2023.

Sarah Gold, Chairman -
Marblehead School Committee

=
Sa

2014

ESSEX NORTH SHORE

AGRICULTURAL & TECHNICAL SCHOOL

Heidi T. Riccio, Ed.D.
Superintendent-Director

December 1, 2025

Mr. Jack Attridge, Town Moderator
188 Washington Street
Marblehead, MA 01945

Dear Mr. Attridge,

Mark B. Strout has been a wonderful addition to the Essex North Shore Agricultural & Technical
School Committee since his appointment on January 1, 2023.

Mr. Strout’s term expires on December 31, 2025. The appointment to fill this vacancy is made
by the Town Moderator and must be approved by the Marblehead School Committee. Please

find enclosed the relevant sections of the Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School
District By-Laws Sections 2.2 Appointments and Terms and Section 2.3 Vacancies that explain

this process.

It is necessary for you to notify this District in writing of the member’s reappointment or
appointment of a successor. An early notification will ensure the orderly continuity of the

District’s business.

Thank you in advance for your attention to this matter. Should you have any questions please

feel free to call mye

Enclosure
cc: Mark B. Strout, Essex North Shore Agricultural & Technical School Committee

BEVERLY | BOXFORD | DANVERS | ESSEX | GLOUCESTER | HAMILTON | LYNNFIELD
MANCHESTER | MARBLEHEAD | MIDDLETON | NAHANT | PEABODY | ROCKPORT | SALEM
SWAMPSCOTT | TOPSFIELD | WENHAM | MASSACHUSETTS DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
562 Maple Street, PO Box 346, Hathorne, MA 01937 | 978.304.4700 | www.EssexNorthShore.org
JUNE 3, 2022

Heidi T. Riccio, Ed. D.
Superintendent-Director
Essex North Shore Agricultural
And Technical School District

Dear Superintendent Riccio,

| enclose herewith the following documents
Concerning the reappointment of Mark B.
Strout as Mark B Strout as Marblehead’s
Representative to your School Committee.

Original document reappointing Mr.
Strout to a new three year term, commencing

January 1, 2023.

Resolution of the Marblehead School
Committee Consenting to and concurring in
That appointment
Sincerely yours, °
Sas (CA Se WAP

Town Moderator
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN

In accordance with the by- laws of the School Committee
Of the Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School,
| hereby appoint Mark B. Strout of Marblehead to a new
Three year term as the representative of the Town of Marblehead
To their School Committee, effective January 1, 2023.

Gary A Spiess

Clary Oh Sq
Town “toberator

Town Of Marblehead

May 15, 2022
BYLAWS GOVERNING THE OPERATION
of the

ESSEX NORTH SHORE AGRICULTURAL AND TECHNICAL SCHOOL DISTRICT
These Bylaws are adopted pursuant to Chapter 463 of the Acts of 2004, as amended by Chapter 9
of the Acts of 2006, Chapter 304 of the Acts of 2008 and by Chapter 130 of the Acts of 2010
(collectively, the “Enabling Act”) by the representatives of the cities of Beverly, Gloucester,
Peabody and Salem, the towns of Boxford, Danvers, Essex, Hamilton, Lynnfield, Manchester by-
the Sea, Marblehead, Middleton, Nahant, Rockport, Swampscott, Topsfield and Wenham (each a
“Member Municipality”) and also by representatives appointed by the Commissioner of
Agriculture of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts (the “Commissioner of Agriculture”), as
members of the Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District School
Committee.

PARTI
THE DISTRICT

Section 1.1 Name

The name of the District shall be "Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District"
(hereinafter sometimes referred to as the “District”).

Section 1.2 Seal

The seal of the District shall bear the name of the District and shall otherwise be in such form as
shall be approved by vote of the Committee

PARTI
THE REGIONAL DISTRICT SCHOOL COMMITTEE

Section 2.1 Composition of Committee

The powers and duties of the District shall be vested in and exercised by the Essex North Shore
Agricultural and Technical School District School Committee (hereinafter sometimes referred to
as the "Committee"). The Committee shall consist of twenty (20) members as follows: three (3)
members to be appointed by the Commissioner of Agriculture, with the approval of the Governor
and one (1) member from each other Member Municipality (each, a “Member”), Members shall
be chosen as provided in Sections 2.2 and 2.3 and shail be entitled to vote as provided in
Sections 2.4, 2.5 and 2.6, and shall serve until their respective successors are appointed and
qualified. Upon the effective date of the withdrawal of any Member Municipality, the term of
office of the Member representing such Member Municipality shall thereupon terminate.

Section 2.2 Appointments and Terms

The initial representatives from each of the Member Municipalities shal! have terms that expire

Adopted January 6, 2011
as follows: (i) the terms of the representatives from the City of Peabody, the Towns of Rockport,
Nahant, Boxford, Lynnfield and Essex shall expire on December 31, 2012; (ii) the terms of the
representatives from the City of Beverly, the Towns of Topsfield, Hamilton, Swampscott,
Wenham, and Marblehead and of Agricultural Representative | shall expire on December 31,
2013, and (iii) the terms of the representatives from the Cities of Gloucester and Salem, the
Towns of Danvers, Manchester-by-the-Sea, and Middleton and of Agricultural Representatives 2
and 3 shall expire on December 31, 2014. Members serve on a rotational basis to ensure
institutional history, based on the terms laid out in initial bylaws adopted 1/6/11.

Within the sixty-day period prior to the expiration of the term of any Member, as determined
above, the Commissioner of Agriculture, the Mayor of the City of Peabody, and the Mayor of the
City or the Moderator of the Town which such Member represents shail with the consent of the
School Committee of such city or town other than Peabody, reappoint such Member, or appoint a
successor, for a term of three years beginning on the first day of January next following such
appointment; and shall likewise make such appointment or reappointment every third year
thereafter. The Committee shall be responsible for notifying in writing, the Mayor or Moderator
and the school committee of a city or town at least sixty days prior to the expiration of the term
of a Member representing such city or town; and the mayor or moderator shall be responsible for
notifying the Committee in writing of the appointment or reappointment of any Member
representing such city or town, The time of appointment and the term of a Member representing
a municipality subsequently admitted to the District under Part VI of these by-laws shall be
specified in the Amendment authorizing such admission.

For the purposes of this section, the consent of the School Committee of a Member Municipality
shall mean, in the case of a Member Municipality which is part of a regional high school district,
the consent of those members of the regional high school district committee who are residents of
such Member Municipality.

Section 2.3 Vacancies

Ifa Member of the Committee dies, or resigns, or ceases to be a resident of the city or town
which he or she represents, such office shall be deemed vacant; and the Committee shall notify
the Commissioner of Agriculture, or the mayor or moderator represented by such Member, as
appropriate, in writing of such vacancy. A vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as
provided in Section 2.2 for regular appointments; and the term of a person appointed to fill a
vacancy shall begin on receipt by the Committee of a written notification of his or her
appointment from the Conimissioner of Agriculture, the mayor or moderator concerned and shall
expire on the same date as the term of his predecessor. If any Member fails to attend three
successive regularly scheduled meetings of the Committee, the Committee shall so notify the
Conmnissioner of Agriculture or the Mayor or Moderator of the Member Municipality
concerned, as appropriate.

Section 2.4 Allocation of Votes

A. Each Member serving on a Subcommittee or Ad Hoc Subcommittee shall be entitled to cast
one vote. Only affirmative votes will move forward for consideration to the full Committee.

-2-
Adopted: October 11, 2018
B. Each Member shall in a full Committee vote or election be entitled to cast one vote. In
addition, those Members representing Member Municipalities shall be entitled to cast one
additional vote for each fifty students, or major portion thereof, who are residents of the
Member’s municipality and who are enrolled as full-time students in grades 9 through 12,
inclusive, in any school operated by the District as of October | of the preceding calendar year.

By way of illustration, additional votes for Member Municipalities with enrollments greater than
25 students shall be allocated as follows:

Enrollment Additional Votes

26 to 75 1
76 to 1252
126 to 175 3
176 to 225 4
226 ta 275 5
276 to 325 6
326 to 3757

Section 2.5 Organization; Transaction of Business

A. The annual meeting of the Committee shall be held on the second Thursday in January of
each year, or on another mutually agreed upon date, at which time the Committee shall elect
from its own membership a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and a Secretary to serve until the next
annual meeting, The Superintendent-Director shall serve as the acting Chairperson at the annual
meeting until these votes have been concluded. At the first meeting of the Committee or at any
subsequent meeting, the Committee shall appoint a District Treasurer who shail not be a member
of the Committee and who shall serve until the next annual meeting or until a successor is duly
appointed and qualified for such office; may provide for the election, appointment, removal and
terms of such other officers and committees as it deems advisable, and prescribe their powers
and duties; and shall adopt an initial budget pursuant to Section 4,1. Minutes of ail meetings
shall be made available on the District’s website. The Bylaws of the District shall be adopted or
amended by a two-thirds vote of the Committee.

B. Ata Committee or subcommittee meeting, a majority of the duly-appointed and currently
serving Members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a lesser
number shall be sufficient to adjourn and to call a special meeting. At the full school
Committee meeting, a majority vote shall mean the vote of a majority of the total number of
allocated votes which all the Members present are entitled to cast; a two-thirds majority vote
shall mean the votes of two-thirds of the total number of allocated votes which all the
Members present are entitled to cast.

C. The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the full Committee, shall appoint and serve
as a member of all Ad Hoc committees and standing subcommittees, and shall perform such
other duties as may be delegated to him/her by the Committee or required by law. He/she
shall, in the name and on behalf of the District, sign all contracts and other instruments, the
execution of which shall have been authorized by the Committee. The Chairperson shall be
entitled to vote on all matters.

-3-
Adopted: October 11, 2018
D. If the Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and Secretary are absent or unable to perform their
duties, the Committee shall appoint a temporary Chairperson to preside and to perform such
other duties of the Chairperson as may specifically be delegated to him/her by the
Committee. The Superintendent-Director or his/her designee will preside over the election of
the temporary Chairperson.

E. The Secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings and maintain permanent records of the
proceedings of the Committee. He/she shall be custodian of the District seal, all records of
the District, and the Treasurer's bond. If the office of Secretary is vacant or if the Secretary is
absent or unable to perform his/her duties because of disability, the Committee may appoint a
temporary Secretary to hold such office and exercise the powers and perform the duties
thereof until a Secretary is duly appointed or the Secretary who was disabled or absent
resumes his/her duties.

F. The District Treasurer shall receive all monies paid to the District or the Committee, and shall
deposit the same in such banks as authorized by the Committee. He/she shall also pay out
money in such amounts as have been approved by the Committee, provided that he/she shall
pay no money from the treasury, other than court judgments, bonds, or notes which may
become due and interest thereon, except upon an order or warrant signed by a majority of the
Committee, He/she shall render reports of all receipts and disbursements monthly unless
otherwise directed by the Committee and shall perform such other duties as the Committee
may determine. The Treasurer shall give bond for the faithful performance of his/her duties
in accordance with the law which shall be in such amount as may be required by law and in
any additional amount, if any, as the Committee shall direct, the premium of such bond to be
paid as an operating expense of the District, The Committee may appoint an Assistant
Treasurer who need not be a member of the Committee and who shall, in the absence of the
Treasurer, perform his/her duties and shall be subject to the requirements and penalties
applicable to him/her.

G. The Committee shall employ a Superintendent-Director of schools and fix his/her
compensation, The Superintendent-Director shall act in accordance with General Laws,
Chapter 71, Section 59, and shall perform such other duties consistent with this section as the
Committee may determine. He/she shall also prepare such reports as may be required by the
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education, or any successor
thereto, and shall submit materials for the Committee's annual report to the Mayors and
Boards of Selectmen of the District’s Member Municipalities in sufficient time for printing in
the Annual Reports of the Member Municipalities.

H. Regular meetings of the Committee are generally held on the second Thursday of each month
at 7:00 p.m, or at such other times as the Committee shall determine. All meetings shall be
posted and advertised according to M.G.L. Chapter 30A, §§18-25; or any successor provision
of the General Laws, as the same shall be amended from time to time. Meetings of the
Committee shall conclude no later than 10:30 p.m. unless a quorum is present and votes by a
two-thirds majority to continue beyond such time.

-4-
Adopted: October 11, 2018
I. Special meetings of the Committee may be held at the call of the Chairperson, if he/she shall
deem it expedient, or shall be held upon the written request of three Members of the
Committee. Notice of a special meeting shall be in writing, shall state the time, place and
purpose of the meeting, and shall be emailed to each Member of the Committee not later than
48 hours, exclusive of Saturdays and Sundays and legal holidays, preceding the day on which
such special meeting is to be held. At such special meeting, no business shall be considered
other than that designated in the notice except by two-thirds vote as defined in Section 2.5
(A) of these By-Laws. Any member of the Committee may waive his/her notice of the time,
place and/or purposes of any meeting of the Committee. Any such waiver shall be in writing
and shall be filed with the records of the special meeting to which it relates.

J. The order of business at regular meetings shall be generally as follows:

1. Call to Order

2. Salute to the Flag

3. Public Comment*

4, Student Representatives Report

5. Approval of Meeting Minutes

6. Communications

7, Superintendent-Director Report

8. Principal Report

9, Subcommittee Reports
(Finance, District, Personnel)

10, Old Business

11. New Business

12. Warrant

13. Discussion Items That Were Not Reasonably Anticipated by the

Chairperson (M.G.L. , Chapter 30A-Section 18-25)

14, Adjourn

The most recently published edition of Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern the conduct of
the proceedings of the Committee except when those rules are in conflict with any policies
and regulations approved by the Committee. Executive sessions of the Committee may be
held for any purpose permitted by the General Laws, but only by a majority vote as such term
is defined in Section 2.5(B) of these By-Laws. Otherwise, all meetings shall be open to the

public.

K. The official bulletin board of the District for purposes of General Laws, Chapter 30A,
Section 20, shall be the website of the District and notices of all meetings shall be posted in
accordance with Chapter 30A §20 of the General Laws (the Open Meeting Law) and 940
CMR 29.03 or any successor statute that may be in effect from time to time.

L. The Committee may from time to time make policies, rules and regulations consistent with
the laws of the Commonwealth or these Bylaws for the operation and conduct of the District, its

schools and programs.

Adopted: October 11, 2018
Section 2.6 Powers and Duties

The Committee shall have all the powers and duties conferred and imposed upon it by these by
laws and such other additional powers and duties as are specified in the Enabling Act and any
amendments thereto now or hereafter enacted or as may be specified in any other applicable

general or special law.
Section 2.7 Process for Filling Vacant Offices

The following procedure will be employed for each office open, whether at the Committee's
annual meeting or on the occasion that an office should be vacated during the course of the

year.

1. The school committee designee acting as temporary Chairperson shai! entertain
nominations for each office, beginning with the Chairperson, from the
membership. Nominations shall not require a second.

2. A motion to close nominations shall require a second, and must be voted on, as any
other motion.

3. Should only one nomination for an office be submitted, the Chaixperson may
instract the secretary to cast one ballot for the nominee.

4, If two or more nominees are submitted for any office, the election of an officer
shall be conducted by a roll call vote, with all allocated votes recorded, The
Chairperson need not vote unless his/her vote shall affect the outcome of the
election.

5, The nominee receiving a majority of the allocated votes cast by those present and
voting shall be declared the winner, Upon a majority vote of the Members, the

vote may be taken by signed paper ballot which is recorded and read by the
Secretary.

PARTE

APPORTIONMENT AND PAYMENT OF COSTS INCURRED BY THE

DISTRICT Section 3.1 Classification of Costs

For the purpose of apportioning assessments levied by the District against the Member
Municipalities, costs shall be divided into three categories capital costs, operating costs and
special operating costs.

Section 3.2 Capital Costs

Capital costs shall include all expenses in the nature of capital outlay such as the cost of
acquiring land, the cost of constructing, reconstructing, and adding to buildings, and the cost of
remodeling or making extraordinary repairs to a school building or buildings, including without

-6-
Adopted: October 11, 2018
limitation the cost of the original equipment and furnishings for such buildings or additions,
plans, architects’ and consultants’ fees, grading and related structures and premises in operating
condition, sewage disposal and any other items for which a school district may borrow money.
Capital costs shall also include payment of principal of and interest on bonds, notes or other
obligations issued by the District to finance capital costs.
Section 3.3 Operating Costs

Operating costs shall include all costs for daytime courses in grades 9-12 operated by the District
and not included in capital costs as defined in Section 3.2 or Special Operating Costs as defined
in Section 3.4 but including interest on temporary notes issued by the District in anticipation of
revenue.

Section 3.4 Special Operating Costs

Special Operating Costs shall include, the net cost of evening, graduate and extension courses or
any other types of courses which are offered by the District to persons other than pupils attending
a regular District vocational school program in any of grades 9-12, net of any revenues collected
by the District on account of such programs.

Section 3.5 Apportionment of Capital and Operating Costs

A, Capital and operating costs for every fiscal year shall be apportioned to the Member
Municipalities on the basis of their respective pupil enrollment in the District schools; provided
that, for the purpose of such apportionment each member municipality shall be deemed to have
at least five students enrolled full time in grades 9-12 in the District schools each year, Each
Member Municipality’s share of capital and operating costs for each fiscal year shall be
determined by computing the ratio which the enrollment of full time students in grades 9 through
12 from such Member Municipality at such Member Municipality’s expense in any school or
schools operated by the District bears to the total number of full time students in grades 9-12
from all member municipalities at municipality expense in any school or schools operated by the
District on October | of the fiscal year next preceding the fiscal year for which the
apportionment is determined.

B. In the event that full time student enrollment in any of grades 9-12, inclusive, in the District
school system has not been accomplished by October 1 of any such year, capital and operating
costs shall be apportioned on the basis of enrollment in grades nine through twelve of pupils
residing in each Member Municipality and receiving education at such Member Municipality’s
expense on October 1 of such year. The Committee by two-thirds vote (as defined in Section
2,5(B) of these By-Laws) may make adjustments in the apportionment formula set forth in this
subparagraph B in the event the Committee determines that such formula does not apportion the
initial operating costs consistently with the anticipated use of District school system. The fiscal
year shall commence July | and end on June 30, or shall be such other fiscal year as may be
established by statute for municipal corporations and regional school districts.

-7-
Adopted: October 11, 2018
Section 3.6 Apportionment of Special Operating Costs

Special Operating Costs shall be apportioned to the Member Municipalities on the basis of the
ratio which the enrollment of pupil hours of residents of each Member Municipality in courses
described in Section 3.4 on November | and March 1 of the fiscal year next preceding the fiscal
year for which the apportionment is determined bears to the total enrollment of pupil hours in
courses described in Section 3.4 from residents of all member municipalities on such dates.
Section 3.7 Times of Payment of Apportioned Costs

Each Member Municipality shall pay to the District in each fiscal year its proportionate share,
certified as provided in Section 4.3 of the capital, operating and special operating costs of the
District. Except as otherwise provided in Section 4.1 the annual share of each member
municipality shall be paid in such amounts and at such times that at least the following
percentages of such annual share shall be paid on or before the dates indicated, respectively:

End of the first fiscal quarter 25%
End of the second fiscal quarter 75%
End of the third fiscal quarter 100%

PART IV
BUDGET

Section 4,1 Tentative Operating and Maintenance Budget

The Committee shall annually prepare a tentative operating and maintenance budget for the
ensuing fiscal year, attaching thereto provision for any installment of principal or interest to
become due in such year on any bonds or other evidence of indebtedness of the District and any
other capital costs to be apportioned to the Member Municipalities, The Committee shall submit
to the mayor of each member city and to the Chairperson of the finance or advisory committee of
each member town a copy of such tentative operating and maintenance budget on or before
February 15 which shall be itemized as follows or be in such further detail as the Committee may
deem advisable:
{. Administration
2. Instructional Leadership
3. Classroom and Specialist Teachers
4, Other Teaching Services
5, Professional Development
6, Instructional Materials, Equipment and Technology
7, Guidance Counseling and Testing
8. Pupil Services
9, Operations and Maintenance
10. Insurance, Retirement and Other

-8-
Adopted: October 11, 2018
Section 4.2 Final Operating and Maintenance Budget

The Committee shall adopt an annual operating and maintenance budget, including debt and
interest charges and any other current capital costs as separate items, not later than April 30
before the ensuing fiscal year, and the said Committee shall apportion the amounts necessary to
be raised in order to meet the said budget in accordance with the provisions of Part II. The
amounts so apportioned to each Member Municipality shall be certified by the District Treasurer
to the Treasurer of each Member Municipality, prior to April 30, of each year.
Section 4.3 Incurring of Debt

Whenever the Committee authorizes the incurring of debt, except for temporary debt in
anticipation of revenue to be received from any source in accordance with Chapter 71, Section
16(g) of the General Laws, such debt may be incurred if two-thirds of the Member
Municipalities do not vote disapproval within sixty days following the date on which such debt
was authorized by the Committee, provided that said Member Municipalities which have not
voted disapproval agree, within ninety days of the date on which such debt was authorized, to
pay the total bond indebtedness authorized by the Committee without contribution by the
Member Municipalities which voted disapproval of the amount of said debt. The Member
Municipalities which have voted disapproval of such indebtedness shall have the right to retain
their membership in the District as provided herein, except that they shall not be allowed to any
added enrollment that might result solely from the expansion of facilities that occurs on account
of such new indebtedness, Within seven days following the authorization of indebtedness by the
Committee, the Committee shall cause written notice of the date that such indebtedness was
authorized by the Committee, the amount of the indebtedness and of the general purposes for
which it was authorized and of the procedure for approval to be followed, to the city council of
each member city and the board of selectmen of each member town.

Section 4.4 Establishment of Surplus Account, Limitation of Operating Surplus

As required by the Enabling Act, there is hereby established on the books and accounts of
the District, a capital reserve fund for the purpose of financing necessary facility maintenance
and capital improvements. The capital reserve fund shall be subject to the limits on stabilization
funds in section 16G 1/2 of chapter 71 of the General Laws.

PART V

LOCATION AND TRANSPORTATION

Section 5.1 School Location

The District school shall be located on the property occupied as of July 1, 2009 by the Essex
North Shore Agricultural and Technical School in Danvers, Massachusetts, at the address 562
and 565 Maple Street, Hathorne, MA 01937.

Adopted: October 11, 2018
Section 5.2 Transportation

The District shall be responsible for the transportation of its students in accordance with Sections
7A and 16C of the Chapter 7! of the General Laws. Transportation for non-resident students
enrolled in the agricultural vocational programs shall be limited to students residing in
municipalities within a 20 mile radius of the District, as determined by the Commissioner of the
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. The unreimbursed cost of transporting
students, if any, shall be apportioned to the Member Municipalities as an operating cost, and
shall otherwise be subject to the terms of the Enabling Act.
PART VI
AMENDMENTS

Section 6.1 Limitation

These Bylaws may be amended by two-thirds vote of the Committee (as defined in Section
2.6(B) of these By-Laws), but no amendment shall be made which shall substantially impair the
rights of the holders of any bonds, notes or other obligations of the District then outstanding, or
the rights of the District to procure the means for payment thereof, provided that nothing in this
Section shall prevent the admission of a new municipality or municipalities to the District and
the reapportionment accordingly of capital costs of the District represented by bonds or notes of
the District then outstanding and of interest thereon. Any vote to amend these Bylaws may be
taken at a regular or special meeting of the Committee, provided a copy of the proposed
amendment has been emailed , to each Member at their assigned school email account at least
five days prior to the regular or special meeting at which the proposed amendment is to be acted
upon, provided further that the requirement for providing a written copy of the proposed
amendment shall not apply if all Members of the Committee are present and vote in favor of the
proposed amendment.

PART VI

ADMISSION OF ADDITIONAL MUNICIPALITIES TO THE DISTRICT

Any other municipality or municipalities may be admitted to the District upon adoption of an
amendment to these Bylaws after following the procedure outlined in this Part. Upon request by
such municipality or municipalities, the Committee may by two-thirds vote seek an amendment
of the enabling legislation to permit the admittance of a new member on such terms as outlined
in the legislation as amended and, in the bylaw, as amended. Prior to seeking such an
amendment to the legislation, the Committee shall notify the Commissioner of Elementary and
Secondary Education and request a Reorganization needs conference pursuant to 603 CMR
41.02,

-10-
Adopted: October 11, 2018
PART VI
WITHDRAWAL

Section 8.1 Limitations and Procedure

The withdrawal of a Member Municipality from the District may be effected by an amendment
to these by-laws in the manner hereinafter provided by this section, Any Member Municipality
seeking to withdraw shall, by vote at an annual or special town meeting in the case of a town or
by vote of the city council in the case of a city, request the Committee to draw up an amendment
to these by-laws setting forth the terms by which such Member Municipality may withdraw from
the District, provided (1) that the Member Municipality seeking to withdraw shall remain liable
for any unpaid operating costs which have been certified by the Treasurer of the District to the
Treasurer of the withdrawing Member Municipality including the full amount so certified for the
year in which such withdrawal takes effect and, (2) that the said Member Municipality shall
remain liable to the District for its share of the indebtedness of the District outstanding at the
time of such withdrawal, and for interest thereon, to the extent and in the same manner as though
the Member Municipality had not withdrawn from the District. Prior to making such an
amendment to the Bylaws, the Committee shall notify the Commissioner of Elementary and
Secondary Education and request a Reorganization needs conference pursuant to 603 CMR
41.02. Once the requisite procedures under 603 CMR 41.02 and 41.03 have been followed, the
Committee shall seek any necessary amendments of the enabling legislation prior to amending
these Bylaws as set forth above.

Section 8,2 Cessation of Term of Office

Upon the effective date of withdrawal the term of office of the Member serving on the
Committee from the withdrawing Member Municipality shall terminate and the total
membership of the Committee shall be decreased accordingly,

Section 8.3 Payments of Certain Capital Costs Made By a Withdrawing Municipality

Money received by the District from the withdrawing Member Municipality for payment of
funded indebtedness or interest thereon shall be used only for such purpose and until so used
shall be deposited in trust in the name of the District with a Massachusetts bank or trust company
having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000.

Section 8.4 Apportionment of Costs After Withdrawal

The withdrawing Member Municipality’s annual share of any future installment of principal and
interest on obligations outstanding on the effective date of its withdrawal shall be fixed at the
average percentage prevailing for such Member Municipality at the last three annual
apportionments made next prior to the effective date of the withdrawal. The remainder of any
such installment, after subtracting the shares of any Member Municipality or Municipalities that
have withdrawn, shall be apportioned to the remaining Member Municipalities in the manner
provided in Section 3.5 or as may be otherwise provided in the amendment providing for such

“lie
Adopted: October 11, 2018
withdrawal. Tuitions for students from a city or town that has withdrawn from the District, shall

be determined in accordance with Chapter 74 of the General Laws.
PART IX

ADVISORY COMMITTEES

The Committee may, to assist it in the construction of any regional school building, appoint a
building committee to advise it with respect to plans, specifications, appointment of architects,
engineers, the letting of contracts, the supervision of construction, and any other assistance
which the Committee may desire, and may appoint such other advisory committees as in its
judgment may be necessary or as are required by law.
PART X
APPROVAL
These Bylaws shall be effective by two-thirds vote of the Committee (as defined in Section

2.6(B) of these Bylaws) in accordance with the Enabling Act duly adopted on the 6th day of
October, 2011, and amended on this 11th day of October, 2018.

~12-
Adopted: October 11, 2018
Will Dowd
217 Humphrey Street
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
wdowd@marbleheadindependent.com

781.910.8685

Dec. 18, 2025
Mr. Al Williams, Chair
Marblehead School Committee :
c/o Marblehead Public Schools SS ‘
9 Widger Road —_—

. , s The Marblehead
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945 INDEPENDENT

Re: MHS Headlight distribution
Dear Chair Williams and Members of the Marblehead School Committee:

Please enter this letter into the public record for tonight’s School Committee meeting and include it in the
meeting materials packet. Thank you. Unfortunately, a prior commitment prevents my attendance.

L respectfully urge the committee to adopt a clear, student-first district policy for distribution of the MHS
Headlight: nonexclusive sharing of the final PDF with any local news outlet that agrees to repost it
unedited, with prominent credit to “MHS Headlight,” and in compliance with student privacy and safety
safeguards. In my eyes, the question before the district is straightforward: whether to restrict distribution
of finished student work when a neutral policy can widen reach.

To keep the focus on students and ensure neutrality, I am asking the committee to adopt a
straightforward district procedure: After the Headlight’s students and adviser approve a final PDF for
public distribution, the district shares that PDF simultaneously with any local news outlet that agrees in
writing to repost it unedited, display prominent credit to “MHS Headlight,” comply with student privacy
and safety safeguards and district instructions related to them, refrain from publishing student contact
information and receive distribution. This can be administered by the adviser (or designee) via a single
district email list of outlets that have executed the standard repost agreement.

This is new territory. For many years, the Headlight’s distribution through the Marblehead Reporter
occurred by default because few local platforms existed. That has changed. Marblehead is now served by
more than one public-service newsroom — the Marblehead Weekly News, the Marblehead Current and
‘The Marblehead Independent — with the capacity to broaden access through print, websites, newsletters
and social platforms. In a larger media landscape now, the district's best posture is neutrality: one
student publication, one finished document, multiple doorways for residents to read it.

In full transparency, I make this request as one of five co-founders of The Marblehead Current and its
first full-time employee, a position that was eliminated in early August for financial reasons. The
Current's student journalism programs were built collaboratively during those years. The mentorship
programs, internship pathways and professional development opportunities that have been cited in
support of exclusivity were not created by one outlet alone. They were built by individuals who worked
there, including people who are no longer employed there.

During my years at The Marblehead Reporter and The Marblehead Current, I have mentored more than
two dozen college students and MHS students, including current Headlight editor-in-chief Grey Collins,
beginning when he was a sophomore. Watching him grow as a journalist — and seeing him elevated

through the Headlight and Current mastheads — has been one of the most rewarding parts of this work.
The Marblehead Independent may have been founded in September, but our reporting in Marblehead
dates to 2011. Since launching the Independent, our commitment to student journalism has continued. In
December, senior project coordinator Ms. Colleen Inglis confirmed that the Independent’s proposal has
been accepted into the senior project database, where students interested in reporting, photography,
design and audience engagement can make direct contact for placements.

I’m laying the above out to provide context. This request is not a departure from those relationships; it is
a continuation. The Independent has offered a dedicated digital page for the Headlight, amplified
through our growing social media channels and placement in our weekly newsletter, which reaches more
than 1,500 regular readers. We will continue to offer and expand professional opportunities and
pathways into journalism through the senior project program and college internships.

Nonexclusivity expands access without altering a word. It does not replace print; it adds reliable places
for families to find each issue and strengthens the archive students rely on for portfolios, scholarships
and the public record.

And because the Headlight is produced in a taxpayer-funded public school, it should be broadly
accessible as a practical matter, not routed through a single private gate. The district already distributes
public-facing information across multiple channels for exactly this reason. The Headlight should be
treated the same way: one student publication, multiple distribution channels, maximum community
access.

A nonexclusive policy would not prevent any outlet from continuing to promote the Headlight, print it,
mentor students or provide scholarships. It would simply ensure the district's distribution process
remains neutral and centered on student access.

Should you have any questions, do not hesitate to contact me. I deeply regret not being able to attend
your meeting tonight. Thank you for your time and for your service to Marblehead Public Schools.

Sincerely,
Will Dowd

Publisher and Editor
The Marblehead Independent
42/18/25, 8:43 AM Marblehead Public Schools Mall - Fwd: The MHS Headlight and Marblehead Current

am 8
Gmail Lisa Manning <manningJisa@marbleheadschools.org>

wd: The MHS Headlight and Marblehead Current

Al Williams <williams.al@marbleheadschocls.org> Thu, Dec 18, 2025 at 8:42 AM

To: Lisa Manning <manning.lisa@marbleheadschools.org>
Cc: John Robidoux <robidoux.john@marbleheadschools.org>

Lisa,
Can you please add this to our 12/18/25 meeting folder?

Thank you,

seman Forwarded message ---------

From: Leigh Blander <tblander@marbleheadnews.org>

Date: Wed, Dec 17, 2025 at 11:27 AM

Subject: The MHS Headlight and Marblehead Current

To: John Robidoux <robidoux,john@marbleheadschools,org>, Michele Carlson <carlson.michele@
marbleheadschools.org>, Al Williams <williams.al@marbleheadschools.org>, Melissa Clucas <clucas.melissa@
marbleheadschools.org>, Hanry Gwazda <gwazda.henry@marbleheadschools.org>, Kate Schmeckpeper
<schmeckpeper.kate@marbleheadschools.org>, Jennifer Schaefiner <schaeffnerjennifer@marbleheadschools.crg>

Hallo all,
Ploase enter this email into the public record for the 12/18 SC meeting and include it in the materials packet, Thank you.

I'm writing in regards to this week’s School Committee meeting agenda item regarding the MHS Headlight. | thought il
might be helpful to give you a little background on the Current's close relationship with the student newspaper,

The Current has published the Headlight every week during the schoo! year for the last several years, We are happy and
proud to dedicate this space to aspiring journalists and civic leaders.

Previously, the Headlight had an exclusive relationship with the Marblehead Reporter. The Current had the same
understanding with the Headlight team, including Thom Higgins.

The Current delivers weekly print editions of the Headlight fo 10,000 homes and businesses,
In addition, we run the paper on our popular website (which has had 1.7 million views so far in 2025) and share it on our

active social media channels.

Most importantly to us, we mentor many Headlight reporters and photographers. | visit the Headlight team al MHS to talk
to them about the importance of local news and what it's like to work in journalism. We offer internships to Headlight
reporters, as well as free tickets to media events, Just this fall, we invited the entire Headlight staff to an evening witha
Pulitzer Prize-winning photojournalist where they could ask questions and make connections, The Headlight's editor, Grey

Collins, was invited to sil on the panel and really impressed the crowd.
Collins started as an intern at the Current and is now a paid reporter here.
The Current also awards an annual scholarship to a Marblehead student interested in journalism and/or civics.

The Current has worked hard and dedicated resources to build this relatlonship with the Headlight and its students,
Please feel free to reach out if you have any other questions.
Thank you.

Warm regards,
Leigh Blander
Editor, Marblehead Current

hilps:#imail.google.com/maillw/0/7ik={d60750adaaview=pl&search=al&permnisgld=msg-{:185185375727 29385968simpl=msg-1851853757272039596 12
12118125, 8:43 AM Marblehead Public Schools Mail - Fwd: The MHS Headlight and Marblehead Current

by, | Leigh Blander

| ts Fouuder, Besoriar

NY

Marblehead | thlander@marbieheadnews.org

981,718,3324 (m)
BARBIE GA TICLE FORE

Current

NEWS FOR PEOPLE, NOT FOR PROFIT.

Al Williams

School Commiltlee Member

Marblehead, MA Public Schoo! District

“The opinions expressed within this email are my own and do not reflect those of the School Committee as a whole.”

When waiting or responding, please remember that Ihe Secretary of State's Office has determined Ihat email is a public record, This conmmunicalion may
contain privileged or other confidentiat information. if you are not the intended recipient, or balieve thal you have received this communication in error, plaase
do not print, copy, retransmit, disseminate, or otherwise Use the information, Also, please Indicate to the sender that you have received this email in error, and
delete the copy you received,

hnips:tmall. google commas 7k=1d6e7S0adaS.viow=pl&search=allépexmmegid=msg-t:1 86485375727 20305968simpl=msg- 105185875727 2809598 212
42118125, 8:43 AM Marblehead Publlc Scheols Mall - Fwd: Statement from the Weekly News regarding the Headlight

ad 8
(9 rma ii Lisa Manning <manning.lisa@marbleheadschools.org>

Fwd: Statement from the Weekly News regarding the Headlight
Al Williams <williams.al@marbleheadschools.org> Thu, Dec 18, 2025 at 8:40 AM

To: Lisa Manning <manning.isa@marbleheadschools.org>
Cc; John Robidoux <robidoux.john@marbleheadschools.org>

Lisa,
Could you please add this to our meeling folder for 12/18/25?

Thank you,

seeeeeweee Forwarded message ---------

From: Sophia Harris <sophia@itemlive.com>

Date: Wed, Dec 17, 2025 at 7:04 PM

Subject: Statement from the Weekly News regarding the Headlight

To: <robidoux,john@marbleheadschools.org>, <clucas.melissa@marbleheadschools.org>, <schaeffnerjennifer@

marbleheadschools.org>, <schmeckpeper.kate@marbleheadschools.org>, <gwazda.henry@marbleheadschools.org>,
«carlson. michele@marbleheadschools.org>, <williams.al@marbleheadschools.org>

Dear Members of the Marblehead School Committee,

Please include the following statement from the Marblehead Weekly News in the public record for the 12/18
Schoo! Committee meeting and include it in the materials packet.

if we have not met, my name is Sophia Harris, and | am the news editor for Essex Media Group, overseeing
coverage for the Daily Item, the Lynntield Weekly News, the Marblehead Weekly News, and the Peabody

Weekly News, as well as our four quarterly magazines.

While | am very proud of the work i do today, my career in journalism did not begin in a professional
newsroom,

It began with my high school newspaper.

That first experience, being entrusted with asking questions, telling stories, meeting deadlines, and
understanding the responsibility that comes with publishing, is the reason | am in this position today.

It taught me not only how to write, but also how to think critically, listen carefully, and engage meaningfully
with my community.

That is why | am passionate about supporting the students of Marblehead High School and advocating for
their ability to publish The MHS Headlighi, A student newspaper fs not simply an extracurricular activity; it is
an educational tool that gives students a voice and teaches them how to use it thoughtfully.

This is exactly what a community newspaper, and a communily as a whole, should be offering the next
generation of journalists: opportunity.

Through partnerships with Essex Media Group, students’ work has the potential to reach beyond
Marblehead and into surrounding communities through the Daily item, which also serves Lynn, Saugus,
Swampscott, Nahant, Lynnfield, and Peabody. For students interested in broadening their perspective, there
are opportunities to report outside their hometown, gaining exposure to diverse communities and issues

while developing professional-level skills.

https:timall, google. comfmail/W0/2ik= 1d6e750ada&view=pl&search=all& permmsgid=msg-t:185 185368 1465425573asimpl=msg-1:185185308 1465425575 2
42/18/25, 8:43 AM Marblehead Public Schools Mail - Fwd: Statement from the Weekly News regarding the Headlight
Additionally, journalism is not limited to hard news, Our magazines offer space for feature writing, profiles,
and creative storytelling — perfect for students who may be more interested in human-interest pieces, arts,
culture, or lifestyle writing.

Not every student dreams of covering town meetings, but many would thrive writing about a beloved barista
at Plus Café or the Crosby's cashier who brightens everyone's day. These stories matter, too, and they are

often where young writers find their voice.

| would respectfully submit that as a community, we should provide as many opportunities as possible for
students who are eager to learn, create, and contribute. Student journalism builds confidence,
accountability, and pride in one's work, qualities that extend far beyond the newsroom and into any future

career.
Someone once took a chance on me when | was younger. That chance made all the difference.
It would be a privilege to offer the same opportunity to the students of Marblehead High School.

Thank you for your time, consideration, and continued commitment to the education and growth of
Marblehead's students.

Sincerely,
Sophia Harris
News Editor, Essex Media Group

508-581-7679

Al Williams
School Committee Member

Marblehead, MA Public School District
"The opinions expressed within this email are my own and do not reflect those of the School Committee as a whole."

When wailing or sesponding, please remember that the Secretary of Stale’s Office has determined thal email ig a public record. This communication may
contain privileged or other confidential information. If you are nol the Intended recipient, or belive that you have received this communication in error, please
do not print, copy, retransmil, disseminate, or othenvise use the information. Also, please indicate lo (he sender thal you have received this email in error, and

delete the copy you recelved,

hllps:timal.google.convmailtu//?ik= 1d60750ada8view=plasearch=all&permmsgid=msg-f'185 185368 146542557 38simpi=msg-1186 185368 1465425575 22
Marblehead Public Schools

Enrollment Data
2019-2026

Presentation by: John Robidoux, Superintendent of Schools
Julia Ferreira, Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and Learning

Prepared for the Marblehead School Committee
December 18, 2025
MPS Enrollment 2019-2026 (DESE Oct. 1 data)

Grade 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 Average

K 176 164 136 147 173 165 165 155 160

1 203 Se C 160 162 167 186 174 173 176

2 260 208 180 170 178 171 188 174 191
3 205 245 190 =e 184 182 173 189 193
4 221 204 200 169 168 187 175 151 | 184
5 197 222 190 200 177 171 184 169 188
6 224 197 202 190 210 179 170 161 191
7 230 260 203 195 206 235 180 170 | 190
8 236 228 249 195 212 208 231 177 217
9 258 231 225 238 196 216 207 211 | 222
10 267 258 228 218 243 199 218 201 | 229
11 261 253 248 225 214 244 195 21 231

12 263 256 247 245 224 215 241 185 234

Percent Change to Enrollment by Grade Level

Avo. % Change Over

Grade 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 Time

K 176 164 136 147 173 165 165 | 155 | 48

1 203 190 160 162 167 186 174 173 2.25

2 260 208 180 170 178 71 188 174 5ST Average

3 205 245 190 77 184 182 173 189 | 16 Annual

4 221 204 200 169 168 187 175 151 53 Enrollment
5 197 222 190 200 177 171 184 | 169 | 2.06 percent

6 224 197 202 190 210 179 170 | 161 | 8.37 change

7 230 260 203 195 206 235 180 470 4.62 sce ae
8 236 228 249 195 212 208 231 177 | 5.14 = -3.88%
9 258 231 225 238 196 216 207 | a Bes

10 267 258 228 218 243 199 218 201 | se3g |

"1 261 253 248 225 214 244 195 aii 3a

12 263 256 247 245 224 215 241

185 -6.68

Historical View - Transfers in-state/out of state per _ M

year
| Transfers 20-21 21-22 22-23 23-24 24-25
| In-state 148 74 62 62 83
| private |
In-state 75 | 68 48 48 70

| public (moved
or Voc/Charter
School)

Homeschool | 5 8 | 2 2 | 6

“Out of state 89 AT 49 48 | 56

| Total: 317 | 197 161 160 215

Enrollment by School SY 2024-25 to SY 2025-26 M |

Enrollment by School Vv
@sv25-26  ) S¥24-25

Total enrollment
(Oct. 1),
including
PrekK-12:

24-25 = 2564 7
25-26 = 2394 : ay

Brown Elem. Glover Marblehead High Veverans Miccle ‘fillage

Report Findings: Pioneer Institute Public Policy Research b :

While low birth rates in Massachusetts predict an upcoming decline in statewide enrollment,
geographic birth data can provide information about where the declines are likely to be the
largest. As seen in Figure 8, births in western Massachusetts were especially low, while central
Massachusetts and the greater Boston area had higher birth rates. Of coursc, low birth rates do
not guarantee a decline in enrollment, as some towns may sec enrollment boosted by migration.

Figure 8: Births per 100 Residents, 2019

>i

0.9-1.1

0.7-0.9

*
W os-o7
|_|

Percent Change to Enrollment SY 2018-2025

| District 2018-19 2024-25 | change %change |
I saestsonp 2058 1793 | -265 12.88%

| Beverly 4565 4503 | -62 | 1.35%

| Danvers 3481 3238 | -243 | 6.98%

| Georgetown 1404 | 1197 /-207 14.74%
“Marblehead 3051 2564 | ~487 | -15.96%

| Masconomet 1785 1477 | -308 | 17.25%

| Salem 3718 3834 | 113 "3.04%

| Swampscott 2212 118 | 5.33%

2094

The U.S.
Department of
Education projects
that K-12 public
education
enrollment in
Massachusetts
will shrink by
40,000, or 4.5%,

by 2030.
Total Resident Students Attending Private Schools
Beyond MPS by Grade Level (24-26SY)

| 24-2 26 21 28 | 26 27 8 32 45 36 34 49 43 0

252 35 23 18 25 28 30 37 35 40 32 41 49 33

Where are Marblehead resident students attending
beyond Marblehead Public Schools? (25-26SY)

Private School Number of Marblehead
Resident Students
Attending
Bishop Fenwick High School 7
Brooks School 16
| Brookwood School 8
Covenant Christian Academy 14
| Devereux School ra
Epstein Hillel Academy | 32
Gann Academy A
Glen Urquhart School 12

Governor's Academy 6

Where are Marblehead resident students attending

beyond Marblehead Public Schools? (25-26SY)

Private School Number of Marblehead
Resident Students
Attending
| Great Rock Christian 1
Harborlight Montessori Beverly | 3
Homeschool 14
Marblehead Charter | 82
Middlesex | 1
Northfield Mt. Hermon School | 2
| Phillips Academy | 2
Phoenix School 4
Pingree | 41

Where are Marblehead resident students attending
beyond Marblehead Public Schools? (25-26SY)

Private School | Number of Marblehead
Resident Students
Attending
Shore Country Day School | 12
| St. John's Preparatory School 78
| St. Mary's Elementary School - Lynn 3
St. Mary's High School - Lynn 15
Tabor Academy | 9
Tower School | 168
| Vocational School 35

Waring School 10

School Reporting - DESE Data

Marblehead | Local Academic Vocational Collaborat | Charter Out-of-Dis Home | InState | Out of Total Total % Public
Data Public | Regional Technical ives | Schools _ trict Public Schooled | Private | State Public |
| Schools Schools Regional | Schools and Private
| | Schools | Parochial and |
| | Schools Parochial |
| | | Schools |
| | |
|
| 24-25 | 2,395 0 32 1 | 70 | 11 37, | 533 2 3,091 | 2,519 | 81.5
| 23-24 | 2,465) 0 26 6 61 | 8 37. | «500 3 3,106 | 2,566 | 826
| 22-23 | 2,478 0 26 13 138 14 25 555 6 3,255 2,669 | 82.0
| 21-22 2,457 | 0 34 6 | 13 | 7 33.481 3 3,134 | 2,617 | 83.5

Source: https://profiles.doe.mass.edu/statereport/schoolattendingchildren.aspx

Enrollment Insights

e There is a pattern of losses at transitions (elementary—middle; middle—high).

e Broader demographic and housing trends (lower births, aging population, limited
new family housing) will continue to affect enrollment numbers.

e Marblehead Public Schools will continue to closely monitor class sizes and
secondary course enrollments based on projected enrollment and student need
to ensure efficiency.

e Variability and fluctuations in data over the last eight years.

e Marblehead Public Schools strives for excellence in education in order to provide
a high-quality PreK-12 learning experience for students.
4215/25, 3:22 PM Marblehead Public Schools Mail - Fwd: Clarification Request for Public Record from the December 4 Schoo} Committee Meating

Hi Lisa,
Can the below email please be inserted into the Dec 18th School Committee meeting folder?

Thank you,
Al

wrsneeenee Forwarded message ---------
From: President MEA <president@marbleheadmassteacher.org>

Dale: Fri, Dec 5, 2025 at 6:01 AM
Subject: Clarification Request for Public Record from the December 4 School Committee Meeting

To: Al Williams <witliams.al@marbleheadschools.org>

Ce: John Robidoux <robidoux.john@marbleheadschools.org>, President MEA <president@
marbleheadmassteacher.org>, <schmeckpeper.kate@marbleheadschools.arg>, <gwazda.heny@
marbleheadschools.org>, <clucas.melissa@marbleheadschools.org>, Jennifer Schaeffner <schaeffnerjennifer@

marbleheadschools.org>

Dear Mr, Williams and Members of the School Committee,

We are writing as co-presidents of the MEA to request that this email be included in the public record of the December 18,
2026 school commiltee meeting, During the schoo! committes meeting on December 4, 2025, former committee member,
Sarah Fox, who was attending as a member of the public, stated (hat any member of the public could call a point of order,
We would like to clarify that, according to Robert’s Rules of Order, the privilege to raise a point of order is reserved for
current committee members. This ensures that meetings proceed in an orderly manner.

We also respectfully request that you clarify this point to the public al the next school committee meeting so that everyone
understands the procedural guidelines that the school committee follows. This will help prevent fulure confusion,

We appreciate your attention to this matter and thank you for making this clarification part of the public record.

Sincerely,
Jonathan Heller and Sally Shevory

MEA Co-Presidents

Al Williams

School Committee Member

Marblehead, MA Public School District

"The opinions expressed within this email are my own and do not reflect those of the School Committee as a whole."

When waiting or responding, please remember thal Ihe Secretary of State's Office has determined that email is 4 public record, This communication may
contain privileged or other confidential information. ff you are not the inlended recipient, or believe (hat you have received this communication in error, please
do nol prist, copy, retransmit, disseminale, or otherwise use the information, Also, please indicate to the sender that you have received this email in error, and

delate the copy you received.

Fri, Dee 8, 2025 at 3:22 PM

Lisa Manning <manning.lisa@marbleheadschools.org>

To: Al Williams <williams.al@marbleheadschools.org>

Cc: John Robidoux <robidoux.john@marbleheadschools.org>, Kate Schmeckpeper
<schmeckpeper.kate@marbleheadschools,org>

HIAI,
Sure , | will get that in now.

Have a great weekend!
Lisa
{Quoted text hidden}

hitos://mait google. com/mallul0/7ik= 1d8e750adaaview=pl&search=all&permihid=thread-f:1860700794082919824&simpi=msg-f:18507007940829188... 212
Jonathan Heer Sally Shevery Robin Feins Coby Cartucel Mary Malet Victoria Wyard
Co-Proskdant Co-Presidont Treasurer Secretary Poictal Action New Member Liason

MaryAnne Levine Shettey Bums Marisea Hunt-Pomeroy Jonathan Strrempok Ali Carey Samanths Rosaio Jamos Douglas
Drown School Vago Schoo! MVMS, MHS MHS mstructional Asstants «= Custodians

Dear Chair Williams,

The Marblehead Education Association (MEA) hereby demands to bargain over the hours, wages,
and working conditions of the newly recognized employees serving as Board Certified Behavior
Analysts (BCBAs), Physical Therapists (PTs), and Occupational Therapists (OTs), as well as the
Physical Therapist Assistants (PTAs), Occupational Therapy Assistants (OTAs), and Certified
Nursing Assistants (CNAs).

We respectfully request that the Committee designate a bargaining team to represent the District in
these negotiations and provide the MEA with several potential dates to begin the bargaining
process. We look forward to engaging in good-faith discussions to establish fair and equitable
terms for these valuable members of our school community.

Sincerely,
Jonathan Heller & Sally Shevory
Co-Presidents, Marblehead Education Association

Samantha Rosato
Instructional Assistant Representative, Marblehead Education Association

CC. John Robidoux, Superintendent
Anthony Parolisi, MTA Field Representative Organizer
Student Services Update

December 2025

Overview - Staff

Student Services District Staff

Assistant Superintendent of Student Services - LisaMarie Ippolito
Assistant Director of Student Services/Out of District Coordinator - Victoria Ryan
Executive Assistant of Student Services - Kathleen Gustafson

School Team Chairs and Administrative Assistants

Glover School Team Chairperson (PreK-3)- Stuart N

Brown School Team Chairperson (PreK-3) - Tanya Brousseau, Karen Monje (.6)
Village School Team Chairperson (4-6) - Ashlee Liebman, Rebecca Raymond(.5)
Veterans School Team Chairperson (7-8) - Megan Aponte, Rebecca Raymond(.5)

Marblehead High Team Chairperson (9-12) - Trina Chin-Aleong, Peg Slattery (1.0)
Special Education Teachers

School Psychologists

Occupational Therapists (OT)

Physical Therapists (PT)
Speech-Language Pathologists (SLPs)
Board Certified Behavior Analyst (BCBAs)
Adjustment Counselors/Social Workers/
School Counselors

Nurses

Instructional Assistants

Overview - Student Services Department

Special Education
504
McKinney-Vento
Foster Care

DCF

Title VI

Title IX
Indicators 7, 13, 14

Special Education Grants

Home Hospital Tutoring

Problem Resolution System
(PRS)

Hiring
Communication
Safety Care

Out of District Schools
Circuit Breaker

Special Education
Transportation

Mental Health Team
Speech Language

OT/PT

Adjustment Counselors
BCBA

School Psychologists
Records Requests

Tiered Focused Monitoring

Medicaid/Medicare

Student’s Served

Foster Care v 6 “

Vento " ‘ ‘
ae on 505 439 469
<r on 226 249 281
Students Out of 48 53 50

District

Safety Care (QBS Training)

Safety Care Trained Staff:

: Sater Cares version &
De-Escalation
Strategies

2024-2025: 53
2025-2026: 61

De-Escalation Training: November 19, 2025 - BCBAs Help Strategy

~ Wemerce cpproemations

Entire District Professional Staff bhecsircorat

= Mgpprcoeraliry bal eran:

Wait Strategy
Common language -erchon youre sy

~ Wok torberavicr ts imorcia

What is Special
Tevate
Education: “Special education, under the U.S.

Individuals with Disabilities Education Act
(IDEA), is specially designed instruction,
at no cost, to meet the unique needs of a
child with a disability, ensuring a Free
Appropriate Public Education (FAPE) in
the Least Restrictive Environment (LRE)”

Special Education Programs Defined

Goals of the Providers & | F | Student :
Program: Consultants Team: | Scene eS Seay | Learning Profile | Grades Serviced
to ensure that students | Special Education * Equal Access to | Common areas | PreK - 12

Teacher, IA, SLP, OT .
Counselor/Psychologist, Fdueation of'support may

educated alongside | Assistive Tech Specialist * Individualized Support | include attention,

with disabilities are

their general * = Social Integration executive
education peers in the * Academic Progress | functioning,

least restrictive * Empowerment and | reading, writing, |
environment, while Independence | mathematics, |
receiving the supports | | processing |
and services they need | | speed, and |

to succeed. | | working memory.

Special Education Programs Defined

Goals of the
Program:

Providers &
Consultants Team:

Strategies & Resources

Student Learning
Profile

| Grades
Serviced

Deliver rigorous,
language-focused
instruction to enhance
academic achievement.
Ensure access to
grade-level curriculum
through both direct and
integrated language
support. Promote
independence, inclusion,
and active engagement
within the school

community.

Special Education

Teacher, IA, SLP(LB), OT,
Counselor/Psychologist,
Assistive Tech Specialist

*

Explicit Vocabulary Instruction
Structured Literacy Approach
Multisensory Techniques
Scaffolded Instruction

Modeling and Think-Alouds
Graphic Organizers

Sentence Frames and Language
Supports

Embedded Language Instruction
Across Subjects
Language-Based Intervention
Programs (e.g., Wilson Reading
System, Lindamood-Bell,

Drtnn_Gillinnhamy

Students with average
to above-average
cognition requiring
language-based
instruction Challenges
may include: Processing
and organizing
spoken/written
language Decoding

fluency, accuracy,

| vocabulary, and

pragmatic language

| Grs. 2-12

Brown

| Village
Veterans

|
| MHS
Special Education Programs Defined

, Reis | | Student Learnin Grad
Goals of the Program: | Consultants | Strategies & Resources | . oS eee |
T . Profile | Serviced |
eam: | |
Create a safe, supportive Special Education | * Coping skills instruction May or may not require | Grs. K- 12
environment designed for students Vania | * social pragmatics coaching specialized academic | B
| IA, rown
with social-emotional challenges. | SLP. | % behavior plans | instruction. Primary
Focus on developing emotional | OT,/PT | * visual supports | barriers to learning stem | Village
. Counselor :
regulation, self-confidence, and Psychologist, | positive reinforcement from challenges in | Veterans
positive decision-making skills. Assistive Tech | flexible seating/sensory tools | emotional, behavioral, or
i Specialist ication-
Ensure academic success by er * Safety-Care practices | communication-related | MHS

addressing underlying emotional regulation.

and behavioral needs. Foster

inclusion and active engagement
within the broader school

community. |
Special Education Programs Defined

Providers & -
Goals of the Program: Consultants Strategies & Resources atudert Learitig Grades
Team: | Profile | Serviced

Support students in developing verbal, | Special Education | * Natural Environment Students with | Grs. PreK- 12
nonverbal, or alternative | Teacher, Teaching below-average cognitive | or Age 22
communication methods to express IA, | se Bshower fi | abilities who require
needs and interact effectively. Teach | OLPT | enavior ans | support to access | Glover
and reinforce appropriate social CEuneslar | *& Task Analysis | grade-level curriculum. | Village
interactions, peer engagement, and Psychologist, | * Discrete Trial Training —_|_ These students benefit |
relationship-building skills. Assistive Tech (DTT) | from structured, predictable | veterans
Identify the function of behaviors and | Specialist | te Positive Reinforcement | noRIInes wari caprdinated
implement evidence-based strategies | BCBA multidisciplinary services. MHS

to decrease behaviors that interfere | AAC Consultant * Safety-Care practices Common profiles may

a . | | Disorder, communication
self-care, organization, and adaptive |

. . | disorders, behavioral
skills to promote autonomy in school .

d “ ines | | challenges, and genetic or
SNe COMTEIEY Se hinge: | | medical conditions.

Progress Monitoring

Accountability Data

[Students with Disabilties v}

Overall progress toward improvement targets

‘Weight E 60%
Cumulative Criteri arget p
(2024 x 4088) = (2025 x 6086)

4 10.0 2

‘Weighted total 16 103
Percentage of possible points 16%

Perceatage of possible points by gradespan. 16%
oe re _ Weight of non-high schoo! results:63% __ Wei
2024 Annual criterion-referenced target percentage 16%

