MY JAN 27 PH sue

AMENDED AGENDA

POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 304 § 20 Act relative to extending certain COVID-19 measures
adopted during the state of emergency ,

Marblehead School Committee
aecihenead school Committee

Name of Board or Committee

Address; Marblehead High School Library 2 Humphrey Street Marblehead MA 01945
OR

Zoom: https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/i/978 86762817 ?pwd=5hT6kswailCtbI VaC2uYOnI pdiv7f£. 1]
Meeting ID: 978 8676 2817

Password: 610612
Dial in Phone +1 646 931 3860 US

Thursday January 29 2026 __ 7:00PM
Day of Week Month Date Year Time

Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

I, Initial Business: Call to Order
a. Pledge of Allegiance
b. Commendations
c. Public Comment
d. Student Representative

Il, District Updates — Supt. John Robidoux
a. Superintendent Update

II. Consent Action and Agenda Items (vote)

a. Schedule of Bills
b. Meeting Minutes: (1/15/2026)
¢. Policy Updates:

i. GBGF: Family and Medical Leave -- REVISION
ii, GCBC: Professional Staff Supplementary Pay Plans -- REVISION
iii, | GCE: Professional Staff Recruiting/Posting of Vacancies -- REVISION
iv. GCG: Part-Time and Substitute Professional Staff Employment -- REVISION
v.  GCIA: Philosophy of Staff Development -- REVISION
vi. GCK: Professional Staff Assignments and Transfers -- REVISION
vii.
vii.
ix,

Xt.

GCQD: Resignation of Professional Staff Members -- RESCIND

GCQE: Retirement of Professional Staff Members -- RESCIND

GDB: Support Staff Contracts and Compensation Plans -- REVISION
GDQC: Retirement of Support Staff Members -- RESCIND

GDQD: Suspension and Dismissal of Support Staff Members -- RESCIND

IV. — School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

a. 2026-2027 School Calendar (vote)

b. High School Program of Studies (vote)
¢. DECA School Trip (vote)

d, Policy Updates

i.

ii.
li.
iv,
v.
vi.
vii.
viii.
ix,
x.
xi.
xii,
xiii.

IHAI-A: Middle School Pathway Exploration Policy -- REVISION (vote)
ADF: School District Wellness Program -- REVISION (vote)

GA: Personnel Policies Goals -- RESCIND (vote)

GBA: Equal Employment Opportunity -- REVISION (vote)
GBEA: Staff Ethics/Conflict of Interest -- REVISION (vote)
GBEB: Staff Conduct -- REVISION (vote)

GBEBC: Gifts to and Solicitations by Staff -- REVISION (vote)
GBGB: Staff Personal Security and Safety -- REVISION (vote)
GBI: Staff Participation in Political Activities -- REVISION (vote)
GCA; Professional Staff Positions -- REVISION (vote)

GCBA: Professional Staff Salary Schedules -- REVISION (vote)
GCBB: Employment of Principals -- REVISION (vote)

GCF; Professional Staff Hiring -- REVISION (vote)

e. Sub Committee & Liaison Updates

V. Closing Business

a. Correspondence

VL Motion and vote to meet in executive session Jor the following reason: (01/2 7/2026)

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 2] (@@),

“Purpose 3”, to discuss strategy with respect

fo potential litigation (J. Buckey), as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating
position of the School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return to open session,

Chair's Statement following roll call vote on the motion:

We will enter into Executive session pursuant to Chapter 304, Section 21(a)3), “Purpose 3”, to discuss
strategy with respect to potential litigation (J. Buckey), as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect
on the litigating position of the School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return to

open session.
VIL.

Adjournment

Executive Session (01/27/2026)
Hybrid Meeting Notice: Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person at 2 Humphrey Street
Marblehead MA 01945 or by the remote zoom connection provided. Please note that the in-person meeting
will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the remote connection.

THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE
ES AU A TS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Chairperson: _Al Williams
Posted by: Al Williams
Date: 1/27/26
DATE POSTED.
Town Clerk Use Only

TY JAN 27 AM 9: AP

MEETING NOTICE

POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 30A § 20 Act relative to extending certain COVID-19 measures
adopted during the state of emergency

Marblehead School Committee

Name of Board or Committee

Address: Marblehead High School Library 2 Humphrey Street Marblehead MA 01945
OR

Zoom Conference;
hitps://marbleheadschools-org.z00m.us/j/978867628 172pwd=ShT6kswajICtb] VaC2uYOn Ipdiv7fE, I

Meeting ID: 978 8676 2817
Password: 610612
Dial in Phone +1 646 931 3860 US

Thursday

January

29

2026

7:00PM

Day of Week

Month

Date

Year

Time

_]

Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

1, Initial Business: Call to Order
a. Pledge of Allegiance
b. Commendations
c, Public Comment
d. Student Representative

I. District Updates — Supt. John Robidoux
a, Superintendent Update

IH. — Consent Action and Agenda Items (vote)

a. Schedule of Bills
b. Meeting Minutes: (1/15/2026)
c. Policy Updates:

i.
ii,
iii.
iv,

GBGF: Family and Medical Leave -- REVISION

GCBC: Professional Staff Supplementary Pay Plans -- REVISION

GCE: Professional Staff Recruiting/Posting of Vacancies -- REVISION
GCG: Part-Time and Substitute Professional Staff Employment -- REVISION
GCIA: Philosophy of Staff Development -- REVISION
vi.
vii.
Vili.
ix,

Xl,

GCK: Professional Staff Assignments and Transfers -- REVISION
GCQD: Resignation of Professional Staff Members -- RESCIND

GCQE: Retirement of Professional Staff Members -- RESCIND

GDB; Support Staff Contracts and Compensation Plans -- REVISION
GDQC: Retirement of Support Staff Members -- RESCIND

GDQD: Suspension and Dismissal of Support Staff Members -- RESCIND

IV, — School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

Be op

2026-2027 School Calendar (vote)
High School Program of Studies (vote)
DECA School Trip (vote)

Policy Updates
i,

ii,
iii,
iv,
v.
vi.
vii.
viii.
ix.
x.
xi,
xii.
xiii,

IHAI-A: Middle School Pathway Exploration Policy -- REVISION (vote)
ADF: School District Wellness Program -- REVISION (vote)

GA: Personnel Policies Goals -- RESCIND (vote)

GBA: Equal Employment Opportunity -- REVISION (vote)
GBEA: Staff Ethics/Conflict of Interest -- REVISION (vote)
GBEB: Staff Conduct -- REVISION (vote)

GBEBC: Gifts to and Solicitations by Staff -- REVISION (vote)
GBGB: Staff Personal Security and Safety -- REVISION (vote)
GBI: Staff Participation in Political Activities -- REVISION (vote)
GCA: Professional Staff Positions -- REVISION (vote)

GCBA: Professional Staff Salary Schedules -- REVISION (vote)
GCBB: Employment of Principals -- REVISION (vote)

GCF: Professional Staff Hiring -- REVISION (vote)

e. Sub Committee & Liaison Updates

V. Closing Business

a. Correspondence

Adjournment

Hybrid Meeting Notice: Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person at 2 Humphrey Street
Marblehead MA 01945 or by the remote zoom connection provided. Please note that the in-person meeting
will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the remote connection,

Chairperson:
Posted by:
Date:

THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Al Williams
Al Williams
1/26/26

John Robidoux
Superintendent of Schools

Julia Ferreira

Assistant Superintendent of — Assistant Superintendent of
Teaching & Learning

Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-3140

Michael Pfifferling

Assistant Superintendent of
Finance & Operations

LisaMarie Ippolito

Student Services

TO:
FROM:
DATE:
RE:

Marblehead School Committee

Michael Pfifferling, Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations
January 27, 2026

Schedule of Bills for Approval

MEMORANDUM

Included in this packet are the following Schedules of Bills for your consideration. The schedules and

invoices have been uploaded to the shared drive.

Schedule Amount
A26-24-DW-MSR $182,305.90
A26-24-FAC-LM $12,841.56
A26-25-FAC-LM $20,761.05
A26-26-FAC-LM $18,539.90
A26-27-DW-MSR $247,742.88
A26-27-FAC-LM $47,770.05

A26-27-SS-KG $460,545.02
A26-28-DW-MSR $115,995.22
A26-28-FS-CF $28,483.25

A26-28-29-FS-CF-1 $21,840.97
A26-28-29-FS-CF-2 $1,877.50
A26-29-SS-KG $320,448.87
Total $1,479,152.17

Suggested Motion:
Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $1,479, 152.17
DRAFT MINUTES

Marblehead School Committee

Chair: K. Schmeckpeper

Meeting Date, Time & Location: Thursday, January 15th, 2026, 6pm, MHS Library, 2 Humphrey Street
Marblehead MA 01945

SC Members Present: K. Schmeckpeper, M. Clucas, J. Schaeffner, H. Gwazda

SC Members Absent: A. Williams

Agenda and Materials: Link

Meeting Recording: Link

Minutes Respectfully Submitted By: Henry Gwazda

Opening Remarks and Commendations (00:01:00—00:05:00)

a. Commendation honoring Mr. Robert Sanford, Holocaust survivor by J. Schaeffner

* Shared testimony with students at Marblehead Veterans Middle School and Marblehead High School during
period of anti-Semitic incidents

* Moment of silence observed in his memory

Public Comment (00:05:00—00:10:00)

a. Sarah Fox, Beach Street, spoke regarding Brigitte Karns grievance.

* Criticized committee's vote against supporting the grievance, calling it retaliatory against someone who stood
up against antisemitism

+ Argued union contract clearly states number of staff for lead teacher positions with no language for split
stipends or shared positions

* Urged a majority member to motion to revoke the decision under Robert's Rules of Order
b. Linda Valenville, former district employee, addressed the committee regarding a time capsule.
* Noted a time capsule buried at Clifton School in 1976 is due to be opened for the 250th anniversary

* Requested committee ensure excavation before any demolition occurs

Student Representative and Superintendent Updates (00:10:00—00:28:00)

a. Student Representative Will submitted written update read by Chair.
+ Second quarter ends late January; junior seminars began for college/career planning
* DECA competed at Doubletree in Danvers; performing arts departing for NYC trip January 16th

+ Winter sports records: boys basketball 5-3, girls basketball 5-3, boys indoor track 3-0, girls indoor track 2-1,
boys hockey 0-8-1, girls hockey 3-6-1, gymnastics 1-1, swimming 2-0, wrestling 2-6

b. Superintendent John Robidoux provided financial and calendar updates.

* Staff reductions and operational efficiencies being developed to meet town's level-funded budget directive;
higher classroom numbers and reduced resources will impact students

* 2026-27 school calendar discussions ongoing regarding starting before Labor Day; calendar to be proposed
for approval at next meeting

c. Community events and District Improvement Plan updates announced.

* Community action meeting on antisemitism January 13th; MLK Community Breakfast January 19th;
Holocaust Remembrance Day event January 20th; webinar on responding to swastikas in schools January 22nd

* District Improvement Plan update underway with administrative feedback received; staff and parent input to
follow; principals aligning school improvement plans with proposed goals

d. Recognitions shared.

* Marblehead High School named to 2025 AP School Honor Roll Platinum Level; DECA students qualified for
state conference; Yefi Chen placed first in Dramatic Interpretation

Financial Update and Essex Tech Enrollment (00:28:00—00:38:00)

a, Superintendent John Robidoux provided update on Essex Tech enrollment and lottery system.

+ Essex Tech serves 17 communities; now uses lottery system due to regulations prohibiting consideration of
grades, recommendations, or disciplinary records

+ Essex Tech proposed minimum 10-seat allocation for Marblehead based on three-year average; larger
districts proposed percentage-based allocation increasing Marblehead's minimum from 10 to 33 students

b. Financial implications discussed.
* Current Marblehead applicants: 33 (class of 2028), 29 (class of 2029), 28 (class of 2030)

+ Chapter 70 funding follows students to Essex Tech; potential cost could reach half a million dollars
depending on allocation method

+ Superintendent preferred three-year average method; planned continued discussions with Essex Tech
leadership

Consent Agenda and Town Meeting Warrant Articles (00:38:00—01:03:00)
a. December 18, 2025 draft minutes approved with correction.

* Correction: "negative 3.8% change from 2019 to present" changed to "3.8% average annual" change in
enrollment update section.

* Motion by Henry Gwazda, seconded by Melissa Clucas. Passed 4-0, with votes in favor: Kate
Schmeckpeper, Henry Gwazda, Jennifer Schaeffner, Melissa Clucas.

b. Revolving fund reauthorization articles approved (all passed 4-0, with votes in favor: Kate Schmeckpeper,
Henry Gwazda, Jennifer Schaeffner, Melissa Clucas).

* Special Education ($200,000): Motion by Henry Gwazda, seconded by Melissa Clucas. Passed 4-0.

* Transportation ($15,000): Motion by Henry Gwazda, seconded by Melissa Clucas. Passed 4-0.

* Athletic User Fees ($550,000): Motion by Henry Gwazda, seconded by Jennifer Schaeffner. Passed 4-0.
* MHS Activity Fees ($200,000): Motion by Henry Gwazda, seconded by Jennifer Schaeffner. Passed 4-0.

* Veterans MS Activity Fees ($50,000): Motion by Henry Gwazda, seconded by Jennifer Schaeffner. Passed
4-0.

+ Village Elementary Activity Fees ($50,000): Motion by Henry Gwazda, seconded by Jennifer Schaeffner.
Passed 4-0.

* General Education Tuition ($200,000): Motion by Henry Gwazda, seconded by Jennifer Schaeffner. Passed
4-0.

+ Kindergarten/Pre-K ($1,100,000): Motion by Henry Gwazda, seconded by Melissa Clucas. Passed 4-0.
+ Athletics ($30,000): Motion by Henry Gwazda, seconded by Jennifer Schaeffner. Passed 4-0.

+ Special Education Circuit Breaker ($2,100,000): Motion by Henry Gwazda, seconded by Melissa Clucas.
Passed 4-0.

+ Facility Rental ($125,000): Motion by Henry Gwazda, seconded by Jennifer Schaeffner. Passed 4-0.
c. Capital/technology placeholder articles and supplemental appropriation.
* School Building Capital Needs: Motion by Jennifer Schaeffner, seconded by Henry Gwazda. Passed 4-0.

* School Buildings Technology Needs: Motion by Jennifer Schaeffner, seconded by Henry Gwazda. Passed
4-0.

* School Department Capital Needs tabled pending clarification from Michael Pfifferling; motion to table by
Henry Gwazda, seconded by Melissa Clucas. Passed 4-0.

* School Department Supplemental Appropriation: Motion by Henry Gwazda, seconded by Melissa Clucas.
Passed 4-0.

User Fees and Tuition Proposal (01:03:00—01:16:00)
a. Superintendent John Robidoux presented 2026-27 user fees and tuition with 3% increase.
* HS athletic fees: 1st season $555, 2nd $505, 3rd $445; MS: Ist $270, 2nd $215, 3rd $165
* Non-athletics: HS clubs $300, elementary activities $300; annual max increased to $2,125
* Pre-K half day $5,150, full day $7,210; full-day kindergarten $4,420; transportation (K-6 <2 mi) $260

b. Fee waivers available for families meeting USDA income eligibility or directly certified through virtual
gateway; no students turned away for inability to pay.

c. Committee member Melissa Clucas raised concern that fees are high compared to surrounding towns and
charging for kindergarten is a moral issue.

d. A motion was made by Henry Gwazda and seconded by Melissa Clucas to approve the 2026-27 user fees and
tuition as outlined.

* The motion passed 3-1, with votes in favor: Henry Gwazda, Kate Schmeckpeper, Jennifer Schaeffner; and
vote against: Melissa Clucas.

e. A motion was made by Melissa Clucas and seconded by Henry Gwazda to place the School Department Capital
Needs article on the warrant.

* The motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: Kate Schmeckpeper, Henry Gwazda, Jennifer Schaeffner,
Melissa Clucas.

Budget Subcommittee Update and Meeting Planning (01:16:00—01:32:00)

a. Meeting rescheduled; grievance decision reported.
+ January 29, 2026 meeting moved to 7:00 PM start due to Brown School STEAM Fair conflict.

¢ Henry Gwazda reported school committee voted to deny step three grievance on December 18th; Kate
Schmeckpeper recused from deliberations and vote.

b. Superintendent John Robidoux reported natural gas contract renewal.

* New three-year Eversource contract at $7.10/decatherm (down from $8.54), approximately $49,000 annual
savings.

c. Budget Subcommittee update on FY27 budget process.
+ Level-funded budget of $49 million required; projected expenses exceed by approximately $1.7 million.

* Efficiencies of approximately $900,000 identified (unfilled vacancies, 1.75 ELL positions eliminated),
leaving approximately $879,000 gap.

* Subcommittee meets January 20th; budget presentation February 5th with public hearing to follow.
d. Eveleth School shared use discussion.

* Recreation and Parks exploring feasibility of joint project; feasibility study may require funding.
e. A motion was made by Melissa Clucas and seconded by Jennifer Schaeffner to adjourn.

* The motion passed 4—0, with votes in favor: Kate Schmeckpeper, Henry Gwazda, Jennifer Schaeffner,
Melissa Clucas.

f. Meeting adjourned at 7:31 PM.
File: GBGF

IS

FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE

The School District, shalt comply with the mandatory provisions of the Family and Medical Leave Act of
1993. The Superintendent shall issue, and from time to time amend, procedures setting forth the rights and
procedures granted by the Act, and shall ensure compliance with those procedures either personally or by
delegation, or by some combination of personal oversight and delegation.

SOURCE: MASC,= Updated 2022,
LEGAL REFS.: __P.L, 103-3,

Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated »

(Dateted: System

(Formatted: Font cator: Auto

LAL

Deleted: ‘Marblehead

Formatted: Font color: Auto

Deleted: ,

"Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993"

WU

le: GBEBC

i

IS

GIFTS TO AND SOLICITATIONS BY STAFF

Gilts

‘The acceptance of gifts worth $50 or more by school personnel in a calendar year when the gift is given
because of the position they hold, or because of some action the recipient could take or has taken in his or
her public role, violates the conflict of interest law. Acceptance of gifts worth less than S50, while not
prohibited by the conflict of interest law, may require a written public disclosure to be made.

in keeping with this policy, no employee of the school district will accept a gift worth $50 or more that is
given because of the employee’s public position, or anything that the employee could do or has done in
his or her public position. Gifts worth less than $50 may be accepted, but a written disclosure to the
employee's appointing authority must be made if the gift and the circumstances in which it was given
could cause a reasonable person to think that the employee could be improperly influenced. The valuc of
personal gifts accepted is aggregated over a calendar year (4 gifts of $20 value is the same as | gift of S80
if given in the same calendar year).

In general, homemade gifts without retail value are permissible because a reasonable person would not
expect an employee would unduly show favor to the giver, so no disclosure is required. Such gifts could
include homemade food items (cookies, candy, etc), handpicked flowers, and handmade gifis worth less
than S10 (ten) dollars.

Class €

There is a specific exception to the prohibition against accepting gifis worth $50 or more, when the teacher
knows only that the gift is from the class, not from specific donors, A single class gift per calendar year
valued up to $150 or several class gifts in a single year with a total value up to $150 from parents and
students in a class may be accepted provided the gift is identified only as being from the class and the
names of the givers and the amounts given are not identified to the recipient. The recipient may not accept
an individual gift from someone who contributed to the class gift. 11 is the responsibility of the employee
to confirm that the individual offering such gift did not contribute to the class gift.

Gilis for School Use

Gitis given to a teacher solely for classroom use or to purchase classroom supplies are not considered gifts
to an individual employee and are not subject to the $50 limit. However, an employee who accepts such
gifts must keep receipts documenting that money or gift cards were used for classroom supplies.

Solivitations

In spiril. the School Committee supports the many worthwhile charitable drives that take place in the
community and is gratified when school employees give them their support. However, the solicitation of
funds from staff members through the use of school personel and school time is prohibited by the conflict
of interest law. Therefore, no solicitations of funds for charitable purposes should be made among staff
members. Staff members of course remain free to support charitable causes of their own selection.

state_law and regulation, raffles and_games of chance may not be organized by schools as the
oring organization, Employees are thus barred from pacticipating jn such activities unless doing so
: rember of a sponsoring organization, such as a parent or booster orsanization, as defined by stat

law and regulation,

Acceptance by the School Committee,
Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated 9/18/25; upedated NN/XN/26

(Formatted: Underline, Font color: Auto

Formatted: Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Font color: Auta

Formatted: Font color, Auto

Formatted: Underline, Font color. Autu:

(Formatted: Font color; Auto

AI LAU

nd donations to the district must be accepted by a vote of the School Committee

SOURCE: MASC Updated 2025,
Legal Ref: M.GLL. 268A:3; 268A:23; 930 CMR 5.00, MGL 271;7A; 940 CMR 12.00,
CROSS REFS.: KHA, Public Solicitations in the Schools

GBEBD, Online Fundraising and Solicitations — Crowdfunding
JP, Student Donations and Gifts

KCD, Public Gifts to Schools,

KBE, RElations with Parent/Booster Organizations,

Marblehoad Public Schools ~ Approved 10/18/18; updated YASPS; update

(Formatted: Font color Auto

Formatted: Font color: Auto

Deleted: December 2012

Formatted: Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

Farmatte
Formatted:

(Formatted: Font color, Auto

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

PROFESSIONAL STAFF RECRUITING/POSTING OF VACANCIES

IL is the responsibility of the Superintendent, with the assistance of the administrative staff, to determine
the personnel needs of the school system and it is the responsibility of the Principal, in consultation with
the Superintendent, to determine the personnel needs of the individual schools, in addition, School
Advisory Councils may review personnel requirements as a means of evaluating the needs of a school.
Any recommendations for the creation or elimination of a position must be approved by the School
Committee,

The search for good teachers and other professional employees will extend to a wide variety of educational
institutions and geographical areas. It will take into consideration the characteristics of the town and the
need for a heterogencous staff from various cultural backgrounds.

Recruitment procedures will not overlook the talents and potential of individuals already employed by
the school district, Any current employee miay apply for any position for which they have ly re and

meet, other stated requirements.

Openings in the schools will be posted in sufficient time, before the position is filled, to permit current
employees to submit applications.

LEGAL REFS.: Collective Bargaining Agreements
SOURCE: MASC,= Updated 2022,

Marblehead Public Schools — Appraved HW/IS/18; upda

(Deteted system

(Deleted he or sic has certification

Formatted: Font color: Auto

WU

(Formatted: Font color, Auto

(Deteted: 5

Cee

(Detetod: ‘Marbtchesd

U

Formatted: Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Right: 0.25"

LU

File: GCG

PART-TIME AND SUBSTITUTE PROFESSIONAL STAFF EMPLOYMENT

Part-Time Teachers

Teachers may be employed on a part-time basis. The salary of part-time teachers will bear the same ratio
to the first step of the salary schedule that the teacher would eam ifemployed full-time as the hours worked

bear to the hours the teacher would work if employed full-time (for example, a teacher employed for half

the number of hours would receive half the salary of a full-time teacher).

Substitute Teachers

Each building Principal will have the authority to employ as many substitute teachers as may be necessary
to take the place of teachers who are temporarily absent. Periodically he/she will submit to the
Superintendent a list of qualified substitutes for approval.

To the extent possible, the school system will employ as substitute teachers, persons who meet the
requirements for teacher appointments and will assign teachers substitute-teaching positions on the basis
of their areas of competence. When the supply of potential substitutes in a particular subject area is too
limited to meet school department needs, there will be active recruitment for substitutes in those areas. All
substitite teachers will be expected to provide educational services, rather than to assume merely a
student-supervisory role. They will be provided with as much support as poss ble by building
aduiinisirators and teachers.

The Schoo! Committee will set the daily rate of pay for substitute teachers, including extended-term
substitutes, The latter will be granted such additional benefits as approved by the School Committee.

SOURCE: MASC — Updated 2022,

Marblehead Public Schools ~ Approved 10/18/18; updated X

(Deteted: 10 the entent possible,

—_)

(Dateted: Marblehead

(Formatted: Font calor: Auto

_
__}

ms

File: GCIA

PHILOSOPHY OF STAFF DEVELOPMENT

All staff members will be encouraged in and provided with suitable opportunities for the development of
increased competencies beyond those they may attain through the performance of their assigned duties

and a

stance from supervisors.

Opportunities for professional growth may be provided through such means as the following:

4.

Planned in-service programs and workshops offered within the schoo! district from time

to time; these may include participation by outside consultants,

Membership on curriculum development committees drawing personnel from within
and without the school district,

Released time for visits to other classrooms and schools and for attendance al
conferences, workshops, and other professional meetings.

The Superintendent will have authority to approve or deny released time for conferences and visitations
and reimbursements for expenses, provided such activities are within budget allocations for the purpose.

SOURCE: MASC,— Updated 2022,

Marblehead Public Schools — Approved W/IS/I8; updated XX)

(Deleted: system

(Formatted: om color: Auro

NAY

C Deleted: system

Formatted: Font color: Auto

Deleted: Leaves of absence tor graduate study,
research. and travel,

Se

Deleted: jf

Deleted: 7

Deleted: Partial payment of tuition for approved
courses.

ony

(Deleted: Marblebead

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

La
PROFESSIONAL STAFF ASSIGNMENTS AND TRANSFERS

The basic consideration in the assignment of professional staff members will be the needs of the students
and the insteuctional program.

Therefore, the assignment and transfer of professional staff members will be accomplished by the
Superintendent on the basis of the employee's qualifications, the needs of the school district, and the
eniployees' expressed desires.

Care will be exercised by the Superintendent to assure that all schools are staffed with highly qualified,
teachers.

Within an individual school, the building administrator will have the authority to assign classes and
courses, provided this is dene with full regard for the teacher's area of Jicensure and the policies delineated
above.

CONTRACT REF.: — Teachers’ Agreement

SOURCE: MASC,= Updated 2022,

Marblehead Public Schools ~ Approved 10/18/18; updated X%

(Deteted: system

(Formatted: Font color Auto

LU

a -
(Deleted: effective

Formatted: Font cofor: Auto

(Dateted: certification

(Formatted: Font coler: Auto

LA)

(Dateted: Marblehead

Formatted: Font cotorn Auto

(Formatted: Right: 0.25"

LU

File: GCQD

RESIGNATION OF PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBERS

Professional staff members may discontinue their service in the school system during the school year by
submitting a written notice of intent to resign to the appropriate hiring authority.

Such written notice of intent to resign will be given to the Superintendent. The staff member will be
notified in writing of the Superintendent’s action on the resignation.

When a resignation is accepted by the Superintendent the employee may be expected to continue in

service at his or her assigned duties for a period of 30 days after submission of the resignation.

SOURCE: MASC

Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
RETIREMENT OF PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBERS

Periodically, at least annually, the Superintendent will inform the Committee of the professional staff
members who have indicated their intention to retire at the end of the current school year. No further
School Committee action is necessary unless approval is needed for the payment of or participation in
continued local benefits.

LEGAL REF: Age Discrimination in Employment Law, P.L. 95-256

CONTRACT REF.: Teachers’ Contract

SOURCE: MASC/Marblehead

Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
: GDB

a

SUPPORT STAFF CONTRACTS AND COMPENSATION PLANS

In establishing rates of pay and levels of compensation for support staff personnel, the School Committee
will take into account the responsibilities of the position, the qualifications needed, past experience of the
individual, and years of service in the school department.

Compensation plans will be reviewed annually for all categories of staff. Such review, where applicable,
will be carried out in connection with negotiations with representatives of recognized bargaining units.
The master agreements with these units vill have the full force of School Conunittes policy.

The School Committee will set the rates of pay for personnel not covered by collective bargaining
agreements,

Overtime

Support staff employees will be paid overtime wages for work performed in excess of 40 hours in a work
week.

in counting hours for the purpose of allowing overtime work and pay, supervisors will consider sick leave,

vacation time, and holidays as time worked.

Every effort must be made to minimize overtime by scheduling duties during the regular workday.
Overtime will be authorized only by the Superintendent and only to cover emergency situations. All such
work will be assigned on a fair and equitable basis.

SOURCE: MASC,= Updated 2022
LEGAL REF: M.G._L. 71:38
CONTRACT REFS.: All Contracts

Marbichead Public Schools ~ Approved 10/18/18; updated X

(Deleted: will he considered appendices to this manual and)

(Formatted: Font valor: Auto

lest

ile: GDQC

|

RETIREMENT OF SUPPORT STAFF MEMBERS

All full-time non-instructional personnel are required to participate in the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts Retirement System.

Periodically, the Superintendent will present to the Committee the names of support staff members who
have indicated their intention to retire.

LEGAL REFS:.: Age Discrimination in Employment Law, P.L. 95-256

SOURCE: MASC/Marblehead

Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
les

ile: GDQD

|

SUSPENSION AND DISMISSAL OF SUPPORT STAFF MEMBERS

Support staff employed by the School District may be terminated by the Principal of the building m which
they serve, with the approval of the Superintendent. However, employees may request the
Superintendent to review the circumstances of their termination.

In the event of failure to perform as required, the Superintendent may immediately suspend or terminate
employment depending upon agreement language.

Support staff employees may or may not be given prior notice of their dismissal, depending upon the
circumstances.

The Superintendent, or the Principal, with the approval of the Superintendent, may also suspend/remove

employees from their individual assignments.

SOURCE: MASC September 2016

Marbichead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
Marblehead Public Schools
2026-2027 School Calendar

August/September 2026 (20) August
M T . 2% New Teacher Orientation
. 27 Teacher Professional
24 25 Development (PD)
- 28 Teacher PD
3 3 . ou First Day of School
8 9 10 Grades PreK m1?
15 16 17 18 September
22 23 24 25 . 4 No School
29 30 . 7 No School - Labor Day
. 21 No School - Yom Kippur
October 2026 (21) October
. 2 No School —
M T Ww th x Tidigenous Peoples’ Day
5 6 7 8 9 November
. 3 No School —
faa 13 [i4 [15 | 16 Conferences gr PreK-8
19 [ 20 | 21 | 22 | 23 | eRe
. Evening Conferences gr. Pre!
26 27 28 29 30 . ul No School - Veterans Day
25 Early Release gr. PreK-12
November 2026 (17) * 26-27 No School ~
M T W Th F Thanksgiving Break
2 4 5 6 December
9 10 12 13 . 2B Early Release gr. PreK-12
16 7 i 19 20 © 24-31 No School - December Break
23 24 January
30 . ol No School - Dee/Jan Break
. 4 Students return to school
. 18 No School -
December 2026 _(17) Dr, Martin Luther King, Jr Day
M T Ww Th F :
ebruary
1 2 3 4 * 16-20 No School - February Break
7 8 9 10 Ul Siac
14 15 16 17 18 . 6 Early Release gr, PreK-12
21 22 Good Friday
. 2» No School — Teacher PD
April
January 2027 (19) * 19-23 No School - Spring Break
M T WwW Th F May
em 31 No School - Memorial Day
4 5 6 i 8 June
ll 12 B 14 15 . 16 tae Day for Senden ms Staff
rly Release for Student
i9 | 20 | 21 | 22 ,
25 26 27 28 29

February 2027 (15)
M T WwW Th F
1 2 3 4 5
8 9 10 ll 12
ae i ee ee

22 23 24 25 26

March 2027 (22)
M T Ww Th F
1 2 3 4 5.
8 9 10 Ul 12
15 16 17 18 19
22 23 24 25
30 31
April 2027 (17)
M T Ww Th F
1 2
3 6 7 8 9
12 13 14 15 16

26 27 28 29 30

May 2027 (20)
MT [|wtf[tt[r
3 4 5 6 1

10 ul 12 13 14

17 18 19 20 21

24 25 26 27 28

June 2027 (12)
M T Ww Th F
1 2 3 4
7 8 9 10 11
14 15 17
21 22 23 25
28 29 30

No School for Students — Professional Development or

Conferences

vacation break

No School for Students and Teachers/School Year Staff - holiday or

First Day of School for all students

Early Release Days before a break

Last Day of School for students - 180 days

185" day of school for students, if needed for cancellations

Marblehead High School

2 Humphrey Street
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-3100

Michele Carlson Anthony Chiariello Dan Richards
Principal Assistant Principal Assistant Principal
To: Marblehead School Committee

John Robidoux, Superintendent
From: Michele Carlson
Date: January 27, 2026
Subject: Updates to Program of Studies 2026-2027

Below are the annual updates to the Marblehead High School Program of Studies. These revisions
expand Advanced Placement offerings and financial literacy requirements, remove low-enrollment
courses, and complete the phase out CP2 general education levels in math.

Graduation Requirement update:

Financial Literacy graduation requirement - one semester (effective for graduating class of 2029)
Add additional courses to count towards the financial literacy graduation requirement - AP Business
with Personal Finance (new), Accounting, and Financial Literacy (new)

Add: Chart for Financial Literacy Graduation Requirement

Financial Literacy Graduation Requirement

Course Number | Credits
AP Business with Personal Finance TBD 5.0
Banking and Personal Finance 705 2.5
Accounting 704 2.5
Entrepreneurship 707 2.5
Financial Literacy TBD 2.5

Rationale: Identifies which courses may be used to meet the Financial Literacy graduation
requirement.
Competency Determination
e Add Competency Determination (CD) Requirements IKFE

e Change wording in summer academy description to align with Competency Determination(CD)
Requirements. IKFE
o Summer school programming will be provided for students who fail a course(s)
requiring a passing grade for Competency Determination.

Remove:
Marblehead Academy — Marblehead Academy is a referral-based academic support program that
offers students opportunities for Credit Recovery through online classes and in-person tutoring.
Marblehead Academy offers an After School Session during the school year and a Summer Session
after the school year ends. Students are referred by their school counselor, and they are supported by
Marblehead High School Educators throughout their enrollment in the program.

Rationale: The Marblehead Academy has not run since the pandemic.

Business Department

Add Course:
AP BUSINESS with PERSONAL FINANCE - AP Course Number: TBD
Level: Advanced Placement Credits: 5

Open to Grades: 11 - 12

Designed to align with introductory college-level business coursework, AP Business with Personal Finance is a
rigorous, engaging course that prepares students to understand how businesses operate and how individuals
make financial decisions. Students will study core business disciplines including entrepreneurship, marketing,
finance, accounting, and management while developing practical personal finance skills such as budgeting,
investing, credit management, and financial planning. Instruction emphasizes applied learning through case
studies, simulations, and project-based work that connects course concepts to students’ academic, career, and
postsecondary goals. This course meets the National Standards for Personal Financial Education and provides
students with a strong foundation in both business principles and personal financial literacy.

This course meets the Financial Literacy graduation requirement (effective for the graduating class of 2029 and
after). It also satisfies the optional DECA Membership requirement. Students will be expected to take the
Advanced Placement Business with Personal Finance exam in May.

Students who elect to complete a Senior Project are still required to attend all Advanced Placement classes.

Rationale: Expanding AP course offerings. Provides an upper level elective option for
students that counts toward the Financial Literacy graduation requirement.
English Department

Eliminate Courses:

AFRICAN AMERICAN LITERATURE - CP1/H Course Number: 166 and 167
Level: College Prep 1 Credits: 2.5 — one semester
Open to Grades: 10, 11, 12
Students will immerse themselves into the African- American Literary landscape of the past one hundred years
to better understand its integral development and influence on our American identity and culture. Genres will
include Poetry, Short Stories, Essays, and Novels.

BEST SELLING FICTION - CP1/H Course Number: 168 and 169
Level: College Prep 1 Credits: 2.5 —- one semester
Open to Grades: 10, 11, 12
This course will explore chart topping works of contemporary fiction. Students will read works that have staked
out positions on The New York Times Bestseller’s List, been considered for major awards such as the Pulitzer
Prize, or that have otherwise left a mark on the contemporary fiction scene. Discussion will focus on what
separates a compelling story from a work of literature and who makes this distinction, as well as how a work of
fiction both reflects and comments on the society in which it was written. Works for this course will rotate from
year to year, but all will have been published within the last five years.

Rationale: Courses have not run due to lack of enrollment.

Math Department

Eliminate Course:

ALGEBRA 3 - CP2 Course Number: 339
Level: College Prep 2 Credits: 5

Rationale — This is the fourth year elimination of general education CP2. The general education CP2
level has been eliminated in English, social studies, and science.

Add Course:
FINANCIAL LITERACY — CP1 COURSE NUMBER: TBD
Level: College Prep 1 Credits: 2.5

Open to Grades: 9, 10, 11, 12
This course introduces students to essential personal finance concepts needed for informed and responsible
financial decision-making. Topics include budgeting, saving, banking, credit and debt management, investing
basics, taxes, insurance, and financial planning for postsecondary education and careers. Students will analyze
real-world scenarios, complete hands-on activities, and develop practical skills such as creating a personal
budget and understanding paychecks and credit reports. The course is recommended for all students seeking
to build foundational financial knowledge and confidence for life beyond high school.

Rationale: This course equips students with essential life skills necessary for informed and responsible
financial decision-making. This course will count towards the Financial Literacy graduation requirement.
World Language Department

Eliminate Courses:

LATIN 1-4 CP1/H
Level: College Prep 1 Credits: 5.0
Open to Grades: 9, 10, 11, 12

Rationale: Latin is no longer being offered.

Social Studies Department

Add Courses:

Modern America Since 1980 COURSE NUMBER: TBD
Level: College Prep 1 Credits: 2.5
Open to Grades: 10, 11, 12

Prerequisite: None

This elective course explores the transformation of American society, politics, and culture from 1980
to the present. Students will examine how major events, social movements, and technological
advances have shaped modern America. Through primary source analysis, discussion, and historical
inquiry, students will develop critical thinking and analytical skills. Units of study include the
conservative resurgence, the end of the Cold War, the War on Terror, the Obama years, the rise of
populism and political polarization, and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.

History of Philosophy COURSE
NUMBER: TBD
Level: College Prep 1 Credits: 2.5

Open to Grades: 11, 12
Prerequisite: None

This elective course invites students to explore the great ideas that have shaped human thought from
the ancient world to the modern age. Beginning with the classical foundations of Plato and Aristotle
and continuing through influential thinkers such as René Descartes, John Locke, Immanuel Kant,
John Stuart Mill, and Friedrich Nietzsche, students will trace the evolution of philosophical inquiry into
questions of truth, morality,

knowledge, and the nature of reality. Students will engage deeply with original philosophical texts,
reading and analyzing challenging material on a regular basis. Close reading, discussion, and written
reflection will form the core of the course, helping students to develop a nuanced understanding of
each thinker’s ideas and their lasting impact. Emphasis will be placed on constructing clear
arguments, questioning assumptions, and connecting philosophical ideas to broader historical and
cultural developments.

Rationale: Expanding elective course offerings for the Social Studies department.
requirement.
Science Department

Add: information in the course description

**SNHU Biology 210 - H Anatomy & Physiology This course is part of a current dual enrollment
partnership with Southern New Hampshire University. Students may earn 4 college credits (3 credits
plus a 1-credit lab) by opting into the Southern New Hampshire University dual enrollment option.
Specific details of the offering are determined annually and shared with students at the start of each
school year.

Rationale: Adding dual enrollment language to the course description.

Art Department
Add: AP Exam 3D Art & Design for AP Photography

Rationale: Adjust the description to include the additional AP exam name

Remove Course:

Advanced Woodworking CPI Course Number: TBD

Level: College Prep 1 Credits: 2.5

Open to Grades: 10,11,12
Prerequisite: Woodworking 2
This course is a continuation of Woodworking 2. The student will further expand their skills on more
challenging projects. Issues of what makes a set of plans, and how the student's skill set, available
resources and equipment matches their design intent will be investigated.

Rationale: Advanced Woodworking will become Advanced Manufacturing. We would offer
a Fall and a Spring course so students have the option of taking a semester or if interested
and it fits in their schedule can sign up for both and take it full year. We do this with an art
elective currently. This change supports alignment with the Pathways program.
Add Courses:

Advanced Manufacturing, Fall-- CPI Course Number: TBD
Level: College Prep 1 Credits: 2.5
Open to Grades: 10,11,12

Prerequisite: Intro to Manufacturing

This course is a continuation of Intro to Manufacturing. Advanced Manufacturing is a hands-on class
in which students practice the technical drawing process, materials science, mechanical/structural
design, creative problem-solving, and other manufacturing and design concepts. Students will design
using CAD/CAM and fabricate using both traditional woodworking tools and CNC machines. Students
will combine these skills to complete a variety of projects.

Advanced Manufacturing, Spring -- CPI Course Number: TBD
Level: College Prep 1 Credits: 2.5
Open to Grades: 10,11,12

Prerequisite: Intro to Manufacturing

This course is a continuation of Intro to Manufacturing. Advanced Manufacturing is a hands-on class
in which students practice the technical drawing process, materials science, mechanical/structural
design, creative problem-solving, and other manufacturing and design concepts. Students will design
using CAD/CAM and fabricate using both traditional woodworking tools and CNC machines. Students
will combine these skills to complete a variety of projects.

Rationale: Support and Alignment of Pathways Program

Overall updates:

Dual enrollment language about SNHU added to the Dual Enrollment Section.

Marblehead High School has partnered with Southern New Hampshire University (SNHU) to offer
dual enrollment opportunities. Students may have the option to earn dual enrollment credit through
SNHU in designated courses. Courses eligible for dual enrollment credit are noted in the Program of
Studies.
MARBLEHEAD HIGH
SCHOOL
2 Humphrey Street
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945-2290
(781) 639-3100
(781) 639-3111 (fax)

Date: Tuesday, January 27, 2026

To the Superintendent and School Committee:
From: Paul Gleason, MHS Business Teacher
Re: DECA Field Trip

DECA State Career Development Conference and Competition

Participating in the state career development conference and competition offers invaluable
educational benefits for our students. It provides a platform for them to apply classroom knowledge
in real-world scenarios, enhancing their critical thinking and problem-solving skills. Furthermore,
these events encourage teamwork, leadership, and communication, which are essential for their
future careers.

DECA is a career and technical student organization that prepares emerging leaders and
entrepreneurs in marketing, finance, hospitality, and management. Founded in 1946, DECA has a
rich history of fostering business acumen and leadership skills among students across the globe. We
believe this experience will significantly contribute to their personal and academic growth.

Where: Westin Seaport Boston Convention & Exhibition center (BCEC)

When: Thursday, 3/12/2026 - Saturday, 3/14/2026

Depart MHS: 12:00 p.m.

Arrival Hotel 1:00 p.m. (Students need to be properly attired & ready to compete at 1:30 pm on Thursday)
#Students IS

#Chaperones 2

#Busses 1 School Bus

Cost: $563.00 (Covers DECA registration, accommodations and meals)

Depart Hotel: 1:00 p.m. Saturday

Accomodations:

Renaissance Boston Waterfront Hotel: 606 Congress Street, Boston, MA 02210, (617)-338-4111
Marblehead reserved 3 triple and 2 quad occupancy, non co-ed rooms with pull-out couches or day
beds. The selected hotel and room configuration was determined by student choice.

Due to DECA’s growing popularity it is estimated that between 4000-7000 students plus advisors,
judges, and chaperones will attend this year’s conference. There are a limited number of rooms and
as always, DECA will not allow single or double occupancy. Several schools have unified.
Consistent with prior years, two students from Austin Preparatory School will be joining our group
to help us meet this requirement,
DRAFT WITH RECOMMENDED REVISIONS

Marblehead Public Schools File: IHAT-A

MIDDLE SCHOOL PATHWAY EXPLORATION

Purpose

Massachusetts state regulations (603 CMR 4.00) require sending districts to maintain a
districtwide Middle School Pathway Exploration Policy that documents how middle school
students in the district are made aware of, and gain exposure to, career technical education (CTE)
schools and programs available to them in their district, regional, agricultural, or public high
schools.

The District is committed to providing all students with equitable access to high-quality learning
experiences that prepare them for future academic, career, and personal success. Career
Technical Education (CTE) exploration in middle school introduces students to a range of career
pathways, builds awareness of real-world applications of learning, and supports informed
decision-making about high school course selection and beyond.

Scope
This policy applies to all students enrolled in grades 7 and 8 at Marbichead Veterans Middle

Schoo! (MVMS).

Middle School Career Exploration

Marblehead Public Schools supports MVMS students in their exploration of secondary school
options connected to their career interests. MVMS students will be made aware of and gain
exposure to the Innovation Career Pathways and vocational technical education programs to

which the district has access to.

Collaboration with Member Vocational Schools
Marblehead Public Schools will offer CTE schools and program opportunities to provide
information about CTE programs and careers to middle school students, by October 15 of each
school year, in the following ways:

- On-site presentation/assembly at the middle school,

- Through mail and/or email; and

- On the middle school’s website.

Marblehead is a regional partner of Essex North Shore Agriculture and Technical School in
Danvers, MA. MVMS actively collaborates with Essex North Shore Agriculture and Technical
School to inform students about the CTE/vocational opportunities available to them.

This collaboration includes the following:
Information Sharing

MVMS will schedule an on-site presentation/assembly at the middle school for middle school
students to learn about the CTE/vocational opportunities locally available to them.
Annually, MVMS will comply with the regulatory requirement to provide authorized personnel
at local CTE schools and programs with the names, addresses, and email! addresses of all
enrolled seventh and eighth-grade students by October 15. MVMS uses the Family Handbook in
the “Summary of Massachusetts Student Record Regulations” section to give notice that
Marblehead Public Schools releases directory information unless the parent has advised the
District to the contrary in accordance with applicable procedures. The MVMS school principal
will keep a record of sharing information regarding CTE/vocational opportunities.

Promotion of Events and Tours

MVMS will share information about CTE/vocational opportunities, such as Essex North Shore
Agriculture and Technical School’s Open House and informational events, through regular
communication channels, such as principal newsletters and communication from the school

counseling office.

All middle school students may tour CTE programs during regular school hours. Student
participation in a documented CTE program tour is considered an excused absence. Students
must turn in the documentation of attending the CTE program tour and/or Open House event to
the school’s main office following the event.

Application Interviews
If required by the CTE school’s admissions policy, MVMS will arrange for a program
representative to interview middle school students who applied.

Providing Admissions Records to CTE Schools

MVMS will provide Essex North Shore Agriculture and Technical School with relevant
information regarding students who applied, in alignment with the CTE school’s admissions
policy, including student attendance records, studentiransesipts; letter ofreeommendation,
student interest information, and discipline record.

Career-Connected Learning Opportunities

Exploration and awareness of secondary school options, including career-connected learning
opportunities, will include CTE programs, the Innovations Career Pathways program at
Marblehead High Schools, dual-enrollment, and career preparation courses will be shared
annually with MVMS students. The exploration in middle school introduces students to a range
of career pathways, builds awareness of real-world applications of learning, and supports
informed decision-making about high school course selection and beyond.

Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 18/3025
https://drive.google.com/drive/tolders/1gWZrUVEPKovi Bak’ 8EpLxPUSSJOSSfIyvGRK

File: ADF

Wellness Policy

The mission of the Marblehead Public Schools is to provide conducive environments and
appropriate resources enabling all students to successfully reach, and maintain, their social,
emotional, intellectual, and physical potential.

‘The Marblehead Public Schools will:
- Ensure that all students have access to healthy food choices during the school day.
- Provide an appropriate dining environment to meet all student and staff needs.
- Allow a minimum of 20 minutes for students to eat lunch and socialize in the designated
cafeteria/dining area.
: Endeavor to enable all students to acquire the knowledge and skills necessary to make
healthy food choices and reduce access to non-mutritional items.
+ In an effort to promote health and wellness, the Marblehead Public Schools will review
how identifying nutritious food choices can be incorporated into the curriculum.
+ Teachers and staff will not use food as a reward or punishment for students. When food is
used in the classroom as part of the academic program, all foods shall comply with the
competitive food standards listed below.
+ Ensure all personnel will annually review School Committee Policy JUCDD
Managing Life Threatening Food Allergies in the Educational Environment.
: Ensure that marketing on the school campus will be limited to those products that are
allowed to be sold according to the district’s nutrition standards for competitive foods.

School Meals Program:

Foods or beverages provided as part of the National Schoo! Breakfast Program, or the National
School Lunch Program shall comply with Federal Guidelines. Nutrition services policies and
guidelines for reimbursable meals shall not be more restrictive than federal and state regulations
require. Menus will be planned with input from students, family members, and other school
personnel and should consider students’ cultural norms and preferences. The district will
purchase local foods and source fresh fruits and vegetables from local farmers where practical,
when available, and when prices fall within budgetary constraints. The healthiest choices, such
as salads and fruit, will be prominently displayed in the cafeterias to encourage students to make

healthy choices.

Food pricing strategies and food marketing programs will be designed and used to encourage
students to purchase nutritious ala carte choices at Veterans Middle School and Marblehead High
School. This may include meeting with student or parent groups, taste tests, food panels and
other informational programs regarding nutrition and how it coincides with the school meal
program. Other promotions may include posters and signage, and highlighting healthy items on
the menu during morning announcements. Periodically, students may also take part in food
demonstrations and/or tastings to ensure flavor/taste appeal for new, nutritious meal options.
Students are encouraged to start each day with a healthy breakfast. All schools within the district
will provide breakfast through the USDA School Breakfasi and After the Beil Programs.

The district’s use of a point of sale program shall protect the overt identification of all students
and store free and reduced eligibility status in a confidential manner.

All school meals will feature a variety of age-appropriate healthy choices that are tasty,
attractive, and of high quality. School meals will be prepared in a way that maximizes nutrient
density and reduces fat and sodium. Parents and caregivers are encouraged to support a healthy
school environment by providing a variety of nutritious foods if meals or snacks are sent from

the home.

All food and nutrition services staff members will complete annual training in accordance with
USDA Professional Standards. Information about the Massachusetts School Nutrition Program
can be found here and USDA’s National Schoo! Lunch program here.

The Marblehead Schoo! Committee is committed to providing students with healthy, nutritious
meals each day so they can focus on school work, while also maintaining the financial integrity
of meal programs and minimizing any impact on students with meal charges. Families can access
directions and applications for Free & Reduced on the district’s website and hard copies are
available at each school. Notices will be sent at the beginning of each year and posted in local
newspapers.

Students will have access to free, potable drinking water in cach cafeteria during meal times and
throughout the school day.

The District provides free meals to all students (one free meal per meal service period).
However, unpaid charges for additional meals, or a la carte items, place a large financial burden
on the school district, as food services is a self-supporting entity within the district. Each student
will be allowed to take one regular meal per meal service period. Students may want to receive
additional meals, or (o purchase a la caste items. Students will pay for additional meals at the
regular rate approved by the School Committee. Student Accounts will be maintained by the
District Food and Nutrition Program as prescribed by the District and delineated in the Student
Handbook.

The parent/guardian is responsible for any meal charges incurred. If there is a financial hardship,
a parent/guardian should contact food services directly to discuss payment options such as an
individualized repayment plan.

Parents/Guardians will be notified of account balances or deficits at regular intervals as
prescribed by the District. At no time shall any staff member give payment notices to students
untess that student is known to be an emancipated minor who is fully responsible for themselves

or over the age of 18.
Competitive Foods: defined as foods and beverages sold, marketed, or provided in/during:

1. School cafeterias offered as a la carte items
2. School buildings, including classrooms and hallways
3. School stores

4. School snack bars

5. Vending machines (must comply 24 hours/day)

6. Concession stands

7. Booster sales

8. Fundraising activities

9. School-sponsored or school-related events

10. Any other location on school property

Competitive foods, including “A la carte offerings” to students, shail be nutritious and comply
with USDA school nutrition regulations as linked and footnoted below and Commonwealth of
Massachusetts school nutrition regulations as linked and footnoted below . In cases where the
USDA and Massachusetts school nutrition regulations differ, the stricter standard shail be
required. A comparison is linked here and footnoted below. These regulations apply to “foods
and beverages sold from midnight before to 30 minutes after the official school day.”

No food items can be brought into the classroom for distribution to the class. This includes
birthday celebrations. Some alternatives to food may include stickers, pencils, a favorite game,
etc.

No foods and beverages containing caffeine shall be sold or served to students at school.

Organizations affiliated with the Marblehead Public Schools and any other after-school events
held on school grounds are required to follow these standards when foods/beverages are offered
from midnight before until 30 minutes after the official school day ends. They are encouraged to
also follow these standards when offering foods/beverages outside of the 30-mimute time period.
Exemptions can be discussed with the school Principal on a case by case basis.

Health, Nutrition and Physical Education:

‘The Marblehead Public Schools will provide Health, Nutrition and Physical Education skills and
concepts as. part of the regular instructional program aligned with Department of Elementary and
Secondary Education (DESE) curriculum frameworks and will strive to provide the opportunity
for all students to understand and practice concepts and skills related to health promotion, disease
prevention and ensuring that the needs of the whole child are taken into account.

Health education will provide students with the following:

«In grades 4-12 an age-appropriate, comprehensive, and sequential skill-based health
education program based upon state and national standards is implemented to include:
safety and injury prevention, navigating interpersonal relationships, bullying and violence
prevention, the importance of physical activity and fimess, healthy nutrition, and
understanding of social/emotional/mental health issues.

» In grades 7-10 units of study include all prior units, as well as, tobacco, alcohol, and
other drugs, eating disorders and self-harm, suicide prevention, sexuality, consent and
gender education.

Nutrition education lessons are designed using age-appropriate instruction and strategies to
promote healthy eating. Nutrition education lessons are based on the most recent dietary
guidelines for Americans developed by the USDA and are age appropriate based on the National
Health Education Standards as well as the Massachusetts Comprehensive Health Curriculum

Framework.
Students will gain an understanding of the following:

+ Nutrition knowledge: including, but not limited to, the benefits of healthy eating,
essential nutrients, nutritional deficiencies, principles of healthy weight management, the
use and misuse of dietary supplements and safe food preparation, handling, and storage.

» Nutrition-retated skills: including, but not limited to, planning a healthy meal,
understanding and using food labels, and critically evaluating nutrition information and
commercial food advertising. Students will also assess their personal cating habits, set
goals for improvement, and develop a plan to achieve those goals.

Physical education and activity is encouraged and courses shall be taught by a Massachusetts
certified physical educator.

The physical education curriculum for grade K-12 is aligned with the state physical education
standards and designed to highlight physical fitness and encourage healthy, active lifestyles.
Students will be provided a robust variety of physical education opportunities during the school
day to support a wide range of interests and abilities which discourages students from
substituting other school or community activities for physical education class time or credit in
place of required physical education.

‘The physical education program shall consist of physical activities of at least moderate intensity
and for a duration that is sufficient to provide a significant health benefit to students, accounting
for the differing abilities of students. The opportunity to participate in physical education is not
withheld from students as a punishment for misbehavior. Physical activity may not be assigned
to students as a consequence of poor behavior or punishment for any reason. (Example: running

laps or jogging around a playground).

+ Participation in such physical activity shall be required for all students in
kindergarten through grade five. Average recommended minutes shall approximate 35
minutes no less than once per week.

« Instruction will be provided for grades 7-8 through formal physical education
courses, integration into other courses, regularly scheduled intramural activities, and/or
regularly scheduled school-wide activities. Average recommended minutes shall
approximate 70 minutes per week.

+ Marblehead High School shall require four semesters of Physical Education/Health for
graduation.

« Schools may not allow students to be exempt from required physical education class
time or credit, unless due to religious exemption, a documented disability or medical
reason that precludes a student from participation.

The Marblehead Public Schools, in addition to Physical Education Programs, supports and
encourages physical activity and movement for all students by:

* Providing active daily recess to all elementary students.

» Encouraging teachers to provide students with physical activity breaks when possible.

« Promoting walking and biking to school in patinership with familics/caregivers and
community partners

Social and Emotional Learning (SEL):
The Marblehead Public Schools utilizes a multi-tier system of supports to provide high quality,
evidence-based instruction and interventions in the CASEL (Collaborative for Academic, Social
and Emotional Learning) core competencies of SEL including: Self-Awareness, Self
Management, Responsible Decision -Making, Social Awareness, and Relationship Skills. The
District’s approach to implementing SEL also includes implementation of the Wayfinder
curriculum fostering healthy social/emotional learning, Responsive Classroom, tenets of PBIS,
and access to a variety of clubs and activities promoting social well-being. Some of the
integration of SEL programming throughout the district include:

« Programming to develop positive, equitable, and inclusive school climates and

cultures

» Direct instruction for SEL skill acquisition integrated in both unit and lesson plans

for all classes.

« Appropriate integration of SEL strategies into academic work, and extracurricular

activities

« Universal and targeted interventions designed to support students in acquiring skills.

Staff Wellness

The district may provide programs promoting healthy cating and physical activity for district
staff including activities, programs and health and wellness professional development. The
district also provides staff with access to Employee Assistance Programs (EAP) which can
assist with a variety of issues related to health and well-being.

School Wellness Advisory Committee:
The Superintendent will establish and maintain a district-wide School Wellness Advisory
Committee (SWAC). The purpose of this committee will be to recommend, review, and help
inyplement school district policies addressing the whole child in regard to
social/emotional/mental health, school nutrition, health/nutrition education, physical
education/activity, and related issues that affect student health. In addition, the SWAC shall
encourage the development of a program that actively promotes wellness in schools and
maximizes the school district’s opportunities for grant awards.

The Superintendent, or designee, shall appoint committee members, including a designee to
serve as a liaison between the committee and the Superintendent, and ensure the active
functioning of the committee. The composition of the SWAC shall include school nurse, school
nutrition and physical activity staff, food service personnel, caregiver, administrator, and school
committee member. The SWAC shall meet at least four times a year and an annual report will be
provided to the school committee and posted on the school district website.

Implementation:
The Principal or their designee will be assigned to ensure compliance with standards of this
Wellness Policy in their school. The Director of School Food Services will ensure compliance

with nutrition policies within the school food service arcas.

The SWAC will conduct a review of the wellness policy every three years to help ensure

compliance and determine areas of improvement.
The district will, as necessary, revise the Wellness Policy (ADF) and develop work plans to

facilitate its implementation.

Legal References:
+ Healthy Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010; MGL 223 Ch. 111, 105 CMR 215.00; 42
U.S.C. 11751 (Pub.L. 108-265, Title II and 204, June 30, 2004 118 Stat. 78.0;

- The Healthy Meals for Healthy Americans Act of 1994, P.L. 103-448, Section
9(b)(2)(CO of the National School Lunch Act (NSLA) 42 U.S.C.

» 1754. CFR Part 210 National Schoo! Lunch Program.

Cross Reference: School Committee Policy JUCDD
School Committee Policy EFD

Adopted: 4/20/2006

Reviewed, Revised; Adopted: 10/18/2018
Reviewed, Revised: Adopted: 8/11/2023
Reviewed, Revised: Adopted: XXXX

ULUSDA Smart Snacks
htips://fns-prod,azureedge.us/sites/default/files/resource-files/smartsnacks.pdf

MA competitive foods: https://www.mass,zov/doc/105-cmr-225-nutrition-standards-for
competitive-foods-and-beverages-in-public-schools/download

USDA vs MA comparison of competitive foods and beverages

https://www.pew.org/-/media/assets/2015/01/state-fact-shects/kshf appendix. massachusetts_v4.p
df

PERSONNEL POLICIES GOALS

NOTE: School Committees must realize that even though they are no longer involved in
the process of hiring school district employees other than the Superintendent and Assistant
Superintendent, they are responsible te the students and residents of the school district they
represent to insure that the highest quality individuals available are hired to meet the needs
of the District. They have the additional responsibility to articulate the expectations of the
District relative to personnel. This must be done in the form of District Policy. The School
Committee recognizes that an efficient staff dedicated to education is necessary to maintain
a constantly improving educational program.

The District's specific personnel goals are:

I. To develop and implement those strategies and procedures for personnel recruitment,
screening, and selection that will result in the employment and retention of individuals
with the highest capabilities, strongest commitment to quality education, and greatest
probability of effectively implementing the system's learning program.

2. To develop a general staff assignment strategy that will contribute to the learning program,
and to use it as the primary basis for determining staff assignments.

3. To provide positive programs of staff development that contribute both to improvement of
the learning program and to each staff member's career development aspirations.

4. To provide for a genuine team approach to education.

5. To develop and use for personnel evaluation positive processes that contribute to the

improvement of both staff capabilities and the learning program.

SOURCE: MASC
LEGAL REF.: 603 CMR 26:00

Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
File: GBA

EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY

‘The School Committee subscribes Jo the principle of the dignity of all people and of their labors, Any |

individual who is responsible for hiring and/or personne! supervision must understand that applicants are *

employed, assigned, and promoted without regard to their race*, color, sex. sexual ¢ on. jer
y, religion, disability, age, xenetic information, active mililary/veteran slatus, marta ii

(Deteted: to he fullest extent
(Detetedt and will tke action to ensure that &
(Farmatted: Font color: Auto

pregnancy or pregnaney-ielated condition, homelessness, ancestry. ethnic back.
_or_any other category protected by state or federal law,

Every available opportunity will be taken in order to assure that each applicant for a position is selected
on the basis of qualifications, merit, and ability.

ce to include traits historically associated with race, including but not limited to, hair texture, hair type,”
clength and protective hairstyles,

SOURCE: MASC Updated 2022,

LEGAL REF.: M.G.L. 151B:4; 603 CMR 26:00; Acts of 2022, Chanter 11?
f Jpaalegislature.gov/Laws/SessionLaw s/Acts/2022/Chapter! 17

CROSS REF: AC, Nondiscrimination

Marbichead Public Schools ~ Approved 10/18/18; undated XN/8X/26

Deleted: within the Distcict

(Dacted: s

(Formatted: Font cotor: Auto

(Formatted: Font cotor: Auto
(Formate
Deleted: religion, national origin, sex, gender idemity,
sexual orientation, age, genetic information, ancestry,
military status. or disability
Formatted: Font color: Auto

‘ont cator: Auta

oe, pouseee

Font coler: Auto

we

i
}

1 Font calor Auto
(Deleted? September 2016
(Formatted: Font color: Auto
(Deleted: BESE Regolations
(Formatted: Font color: Aus

weeee

File: GBEA

STAFF ETHICS / CONFLICT OF INTEREST

The Schoo] Commitice expects members of its professional staff to be familiar with the code of ethics that
applies to their profession and to adhere to it in their relationships with students, parents, coworkers, and
officials of the school system.

No employee of the Committee will engage in or have a financial interest in, directly or indirectly, any
activity that conflicts or raises a reasonable question of conflict with his duties and responsibilities in the
school system. Nor wilt any staff member engage in any type of private business during school time or on
school property.

Employees will not engage in outside employment of any type where information concerning customer,
client, or employer originates from any information available to them through school sources.

Moreover, as there should be no conflict of interest in the supervision and evaluation of employees, at no
time may any administrator responsible for the supervision and/or evaluation of an employee be directly
related to him/her,

Every 2 years, all current employees, including Schoo! Committee members, must complete the State
Ethics Commission’s online training. New employees must complete this training within 30 days of
beginning employment and every 2 years thereafter. Upon completing the program, employees should
print out the completion certificate and keep a copy for themselves. Employees will be required to provide
acopy of the completion certificate to the municipal or district Clerk through the Superintendent’s office.

in order to avoid the appearance of any possible conflict, it is the policy of the Schoo! Committee that
when an immediate family member, as defined in the Conflict of Interest statute, of a School Committee
member or district administrator is to be hired into or promoted within the School District, the
Superintendent shall file public notice with the School Committee and the Municipal or District Clerk at
least two weeks prior to executing the hiring in accordance with the law.

SOURCE; MASC Updated 2022,
LEGAL REFS.: M.G.L. 71:52; 268A} et seq.

Marblehead Public Schools ~ Appraved LO/8/S; updated XX/

Deleted: work

Formatted: Font color Auto

Ce

Deteted: September 2016

Farmatteds Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Right: 0.25"

Cow

STAFF CONDUCT

All staff members have a responsibility to familiarize themselves with and abide by the laws of the
Commonwealth, as these affect their work, the policies of the School Committee, and the regulations
designed to implement them.

In the area of personal conduct, the Commitice expects that teachers and others will conduct themselves
in a manner that not only reflects credit to the school slistrics, but alsa sets forth a model worthy of
emulation by students.

All staff members will be expected to carry out their assigned responsibilities with conscientious concem.

LEGAL REFS: M.G.L. 7:37H,

SOURCE MASC,= Updated 2022,

Marblehead Public Schools ~ Approved 10/18/18; updated X

Deleted: State

Formatted: Font color. Auto

personnel:

‘Deleted: Essential lo the success of ongoing school
operations and the instructional program ore the following
specific responsibilitics, which will be required of all

(Deteted:

NA

(Deleted:

work.

(Deleted:

(pe Faithfulness and promptness in attendance at |

Deleted:

rules in Tes

(Deleted

(Detetea: a

Deteted: Support and enforcement of policies of the
Commitee and theie implementing regulations and school
rd te students.

WAS

+ ( Deleted: Dili
at the limes specified.

fence in submitting required reports promptly

: Cocteted:

(ateted:

LU

official school day.

m for and attention to their own and 1
school system's Tegal responsibil
welfare of students, including the need fo ensure that
students are under supervision at all times during the

por the safety and

|
LJ
I

he

(Dieteteds ‘Marbtcheod

(Formatted

Font color: Auto

|

LU
File: GBEBC

GIFTS TO AND SOLICITATIONS BY STAFF

Gitis

‘The acceptance of gifts worth $50 or more by school personnel ina calendar year when the gift is given
because of the position they hald, or because of some action the recipient could take or has taken in his or
her public role, violates the conflict of interest law. Acceptance of gifts worth fess than $50, while net
prohibited by the conflict of interest law, may require a written public disclosure to be made.

In keeping with this policy, no employee of the school district will accept a gift worth $50 or more that is
given because of the employee’s public po: ion, or anything that the employee could do or has done in
his or her public position. Gifts worth fess than $50 may be accepted, but a written disclosure to the
employce’s appointing authority must be made if the gift and the circumstances in which it was given
could cause a Teasonable person to think that the employee could be improperly influenced. The value of
personal gifts accepted is aggregated over a calendar year (4 gifts of $20 value is the same as | gift of S80
if given in the same calendar year).

in general, homemade gifts without retail value are permissible because a reasonable person would not
expect an employee would unduly show favor to the giver, so no disclosure is required. Such gifts could
include homemade food items (cookies, candy, etc), handpicked Nowers, and handmade gifts worth less
than $10 (ten) dollars.

Thore is a specific exception to the prohibition against accepting gifts worth $50 or more, when the teacher
knows anly that the gift is from the class, not from specific donors. A single class gift per calendar year
valued up to $150 or several class gifts in a single year with a total value up to $150 from parents and
students in a class may be accepted provided the gift is identified only as being from the class and the
names of the givers and the aniounts given are not identified to the recipient. The recipient may not accept
an individual gift from someone who contributed to the class gift, {t is the responsibility of the employce
to confirm that the individual offering such gift did not contribute to the class gift.

Gifts for School Use

Gitts given to a teacher solely for classroom use or to purchase classroom supplies are not considered gifts
to an individual employce and are not subject to the $50 limit, However, an employee who accepts such
gifts must keep receipts documenting that money or gift cards were used for classroom supplies.

In spirit, the School Committee supports the many worthwhile charitable drives that (ake place in the
community and is gratified when school employees give them their support. However, the solicitation of
funds from staff members through the use of school personne! and school time is prohibited by the conflict
of interest law. Therefore, no solicitations of funds for charitable purposes should be made among staff
members. Staff members of course remain free to support charitable causes of their own selection.

and Games of Chances,

" jay_and revulation, raffles and games of chance ny

esating organization, Employees are thus barred from parti pating in i
ember of a sponsoring organization, such as a parent or. booster orvanization, as defined by.
lav. and regulation,

Acceptance by the School Committee,
Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated 9/18/25; updat

¢

(Formatted: Font color. Auto

Formatte

ont cater: Auto

Formatted: Font color: Auto ” >

(Formatted: Underline, Font color Auto

(Formatted: Font color: Auto
fis and donations to the district must be accepted by a vote of the Schou! Committee,

SOURCE:
Legal Rett

CROSS REFS.:

Marblehead Public Schools ~ Approved 10/18/18; updated 9/1825; updated

MASC Updated 2025,
M.G.L. 268A:3; 268A:23; 930 CMR 5.00; MGL 277A; 940 CMR 12.00

KHA, Public Solicitations in the Schools
GBEBD, Online Fundraising and Solicitations — Crowdfunding
JP, Student Donations and Gifts

KCD, Public Gifts to Schools

KBE, RElations with Parent/Booster Organizations

(Garmatteds Fent color: Auto

NS

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

(Deleted: December 2012

(Formatted: Font calor: Auto

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

US

|
\

(Formatted: Font color: Auta

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

Formatted: Font color: Auto

LA

ile: GBEB

la

STAFF CONDUCT

All staff members have a responsibility to familiarize themselves with and abide by the laws of the
Commmpawealth as these affect their work, the policies of the School Committee, and the regulations
designed to implement them.

In the area of personal conduct, the Committee expects that teachers and others will conduct themselves
in a manner that not only reflects credit to the school district, but also sets forth a model worthy of

emulation by students.

All staff members will be expected to carry out their assigned responsibilities with conscientious concem.

LEGAL REFS.: | M.G.L. 71:37,

SOURCE MASC,-~ Updated 2022,

Marbichead Public Schools ~ Approved 10/18/18; updated NN/NS/26

(Deleted: stem )
(Formatted: Font color: Auto _)

Deleted: Essential to the svecess af ongoing school
operations and the instructional program are the following
specific responsibilities, which ill be required ofa

personnel:

(Deleted: »)
2
]
d

(Deteted

Deleted: Faithfulness and prompuness in attendance at
ssork,

(Deteted: _
(Deteted: )

Deleted: Support and enforcement of policies of the

Commitice and their implementing regulations and seheol
rules in regard to students.

(Deleted: 2
Deleted: _)
Dj

(Deleted: Care and protection of school property.

Deleted:
Deleted: Concem for and attention to their own and the
school system's legal responsibility for the safety and
welfare of students, including the need to ensue that
)

students are under supervision at all times during the
official school day.

(Deleted: ; 264:11; 26414
Deleted: ‘Marblehead

Formatted:

CALA.

‘ont color, Auto

File: GBEBC
GIFTS TO AND SOLICITATIONS BY STAFF
Gifts

‘The acceptance of gifts worth $50 or more by school personnel in a calendar year when the gift is given
because of the position they hold, or because of some action the recipient could take or has taken in his or
her public role, violates the contlict of interest law. Acceptance of gifts worth less than $50, while not
prohibited by the conflict of interest law, may require a written public disclosure to be made.

In keeping with this policy, no employee of the schoal district will accept a gift worth $50 or more that is
given because of the employee’s public position, or anything that the employee could do or has done in
his or her public position. Gifts worth less than $50 may be accepted, but a written di sure to the
employee’s appointing authority must be made if the gift and the circumstances in which it was given
could cause a reasonable person to think that the employee could be improperly influenced. The value of
sonal gifts accepted is aggregated over a calendar year (4 gifts of $20 valuc is the same as 1 gift of S80
iven in the same calendar year).

In generat, homemade gifts without retail value are permissible because a reasonable person would not
expect an employee would unduly show favor to the giver, so no disclosure is required. Such gifts could
include homemade food items (cookies, candy, etc), handpicked flowers, and handmade gifis worth less
than $10 (len) dollars.

Class Gifts

There is a specitic exception to the prohibition against accepting gifts worth $50 or more, when the teacher
knows only that the gift is from the class, not from specific donors. A single class gift per calendar year
valued up to $150 or several class gifts in a single year with a total value up to $150 trom parents and
students in a class may be accepted provided the gift is identified only as being from the class and the
names of the givers and the amounts given are not identified to the recipient. The recipient may not accept
an individual gift from someone who contributed to the class gift. It is the responsibility of the employee
to confirm that the individual offering such gift did not contribute to the class gift.

Gills for School Use

Gifts given to a teacher solely for classroom use or to purchase classroom supplies are not considered gifts
to an individual employee and are not subject to the $50 limit, However, an employee who accepts such
gifts must keep receipts documenting that money or gift cards were used for classraom supplies.

in spirit, the School Committee supports the many worthwhile charitable drives that take place in the
community and is gratified when schoo) employees give them their support. However, the solicitation of
funds from staff members through the use of school personnel and schoo! time is prohibited by the conilict
funds for charitable purposes should be made among staff

of interest law. Therefore, no solicitations of
members. Staff members of course remain free to support charitable causes of their own selection.

os and Games of Chance,

te law and regulation, raffles and games of chanee_may not be organized by si
fine organization. Employees are thus barred from participating in such activities unl
einber of a sponsoring organizalion, such as_a parent or. booster organization. as. ¢

id regulation,

Agee ce by the School Commitice,
Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated 9/18/25; updatcd NN/SX26

at

(Formatted: Underline, Font color: Auto

Formatted: Font color. Auto

Formatted: Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Underline, Font euler: Auto

and donations to the district must be accented by a vate of the School Commi

SOURCE: MASC Updated 2025,
Legal Ret! M.G.L. 268A:3; 268A:23; 930 CMR 5.00, M
CROSS REFS.: KHA, Public Solicitations in the Schools

GBEBD, Online Fundraising and Solicitations — Crowdfunding
JP, Student Donations and Gifts

KCD, Public Gifts to Schools

ABE, RElations with Parent/Booster Oruanizations,

Marblehead Public Schools ~ Approved 10/18/18; updated 9/18/25; updates

Formatted: Fent color: Auto

U

(Formatted: Font calor: Avte

(Deleted: December 2012

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

Formatted: Font color: Auto

(Bormatted: Fent color: Auto

UW UU

(Formatted: Font color. Avte

(Formatted: Font color, Auto

Farmatted: Font color: Auto

aaa ee)

}
\
ile: GBGB

STAFF PERSONAL SECURITY AND SAFETY

Through its overall safety program and various policies pertaining to school personnel, the Committee
will seek to assure the safety of employees during their working hours and assist them in the maintenance
of good health.

The Superintendent may require an employee to submit to a physical examination by a physician
appointed by the schaol system whenever that employee's health appears to be a hazard to children or
others in the school system or when a doctor's certificate is legally required to verify need for sick leave.

School employees, their families and members of their household are eligible to use the confidential
services provided by the municipality's employee assistance program,

SOURCE: MASC - Updated 2022,

L

AL REFS.:

CROSS REFS.: EB, Safety Program

Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18; updated 8N/XN/

M.G.L, 71:54; 74:55C ‘

Deleted: Employees ultered
maintenance worker or food service worker must
succe

employment.

sfisly pass a pre-employmtent physical examination
(provided at School Committee cost) prior to the date of

J

J

(Deleted:

(Deleted: ,

Farmatted: Font color: Auto

(Deleted: September 2016

Formatted: Font color: Auto

2
_2
_
D

2
STAFF PARTICIPATION IN POLITICAL ACTIVITIES

The Schoo} Committee recognizes that employees of the school system have the same fundamental civic
d privileges as other citizens. Among these are campaigning for an elective public office
s and holding an elective or appointive office.

In connection with campaigning, an employee will nol: use school district, facilities, equipment or
supplies; discuss their, campaign with school personnel or students during the working day; use any time
during the working day for campaigning purposes. Public employees, are prohibited under state law from
ing junds for political campaigns.

sole

‘Under no circumstances, will students be pressured into campaigning for any staff member.

LEGAL REF. M.G.L. 55; 71:44

SOURCE MASC,= Updated 2022,

Marblehead Public Schools ~ Appraved 10/18/18; updated

(Dateted: system

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

(Deleted: hisher

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

Formatted: Fent color: Auto

|

(Deteted: Marbicheod =)

Formatted: Funt color: Auto

___)
PROFESSIONAL STAFF POSITIONS

by the School Committee. It

All professional staff positions in the school district, will be created initially
ig the Committee's intent to activate a sufficient number of positions to accomplish the school gistric
goals and objectives and to provide for the equitable staffing of each school building. Although suc!
positions may remain temporarily unfilled, only the Committee may abolish a position it has created.

"

Each time a new position is established by the Committec,_or an ny_position is modified, the
Superintendent will present for the Committee's approval ajob description for the position, which specifies
the jobholder's qualifications and the job's performance responsibilities. The Superintendent will maintain

a comprehensive set of job descriptions for all positions.

SOURCE: MASC,- Updated 2022,

Marhlehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18; updated XXX.

(Deleted: system

Formatted: Font color: Auto

(Deleted: system's

(Formatte

fant colar: Auto

SHEDULES

PROFESSIONAL STAFF SALARY

T

The School Committee will adopt a salary schedule for regutar teaching personnel as part of the contract
negotiated with the teachers’ bargaining anit, The schedule will be designed to recognize and reward
training and experience and encourage additional study for professional advancement,

Principals and Admjnistrators on Individual Contracts

Salaries will be reviewed annually prior to July 1. The School Committee, with the advice of the
Superintendent, will establish levels of compensation for each position based on the circumstances,
dynamics, and requirements of each position. It is the responsibility of the Superintendent to present
evidence to the School Committee to support recommendations for salary increases.

SOURCE: MASC - Updated 2022,

LEGAL REFS.: M.G.L. 71:40; 71:43

CONTRACT REF.: _Teachers' Agreement

Deteted: Consideration may be given to individoals for
ceptional performance as a basis fr establishing merit
increases for Pringipahs.

(Maleted: Administrators

Deleted: Salaries will be reviewed annually prior ty July 1
The Superintendent may, upon the request of the Comittee,
survey other school sy stems to detemmine salaries being paid

|
2
(oeteted: _)
7

for comparable positions in each system. The survey will
include the effective date of the specified salary.

(Deleted:
(Cieteted

2 GCBB

“ah

EMPLOYMENT OF PRINCIPALS

Principals shall be employed by the Schoo! District under individual contracts of employment. Said
contracts shall be submitted to the School Committee for their approval of all terms conceming
compensatiowhenefits, prior to the presentation of 2 contract of employment to the Principal. The
compensation/benetit levels, above referenced, may be exceeded only with the approval of the School
Committee.

Initial contracts issued to Principals may be up to three years in length, and may be reissued by the
Superintendent at levels of compensation/benefits, determined by the School Committee, provided that
the Superintendent may employ a Principal under the terms and conditions of the previous contract of

emptoynient.

The length of second and subsequent contracts of employment for Principals shall be in accordance with
state law,

Asa condition of employment, cach Principal must maintain current jicensure, adhere to the policies and
goals of the Schoo} Committee and the directives of the Superintendent, and annually must submit, with
the schoal counci), the educational goals and school improvement plan for the school building(s) under
i,direction.

SOURCE: MASC ;- Updated 2022,
LEGAL REF:____M.G.L. 71:41; 71:59B

GCBA. Professional Staff Salary Schedules,

CROSS REE:

Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18; updated XXINN/28

(Deleted: cenitication

(Formatted: Font color

File; GCF

PROFESSIONAL STAFF HIRING

Through its employment policies, the District will strive to attract, secure, and hold the highest qualified
personnel for all professional positions. .

it is the responsibility of the Superintendent, and of persons to whom they, delegate, this responsibility, to
determine the personnel needs of the school distr d to locate suitable candidates. No position may be
created without the approval of the Schoo! Committee. The District's goal is to employ and retain
personnel who are motivated, will strive always to do their best, and are committed to providing the best
educational environment for the students,

it will be the duty of the Superintendent to sce that persons considered for employment in the schools meet
ali sure, requirements and the requirements of the Committee for the type of position jn which they

The following guidelines will be used in the selection of personnel:

1 There will be no discrimination in the hiring process due to race”,
orientation, gender_ identity, religion, disabiliy. age. genetic iif
military/veteran status, marital status, familial status, pregnancy, of _preynaucy
condition, homelessness, ancestry, ethnic background, national origin, oc any other
category protected by state or federal law,

color.
nat

f with a wide variation in background,

2. The quality of instruction is enhanced by a sta
educational preparation, and previous experience.

The administrator responsible for the hiring of a staff member {in the case of District-wide
positions, for the position of Principals, it is the Superintendent, for building-based
personnel, it is the Principal) is directed to establish a representative screening commiltee.
The administrator has the final say in determining whe will be hired but it is expected that
the screening committee's input will be a factor in the decision. For those positions where
the hiring authority rests with the Schoot Committee, a representative screening commiltee
may be established by the School Committee, or the Schoo! Committee may direct the
Superintendent to establish a screening committee to assist the Superintendent in making
his‘her recommendation to the School Committee.

to include traits historically associated with race, including. but not Hiniited to. hi
neths and protective hairstyles,

SOURCE: MASC = Updated 2022,
LEGAL REFS.; __M.G.L. 69:6; 71:38; 71:38G, 71:39; 7:45

603 CMR 7:00, 26.00, and 44:00
Acts of 2022, Chapler 117 —
htips://malegislature.pov/Laws/Se:

ion_aws/Acts/2022/Chapter! |

Marblehead Public Schools ~ Approved 10/18/18; updat

we
ae
iG

Formatted: Font cotor. Auto

Delet

education and welfare al the chilalten attending th

rhe xelection process Will be based upon
awareness to candidates who will devote themselves to the

hools.

Deleted: he of

(Deleted: s

Formatted: Font color: Auto

(Dateted: system

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

Deleted: children

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

Deleted: for which the nomination is made

(Formatted: Font color: Auto:

L

Deleted
sexual ori

‘ont calor Auto

jon, national origin, scx, gender identity,
tation, age. genctic information, ancestty,
military status, ar disability. )

(Formatted: No bullets or numbering

Formatted: Font: (Default) Arial, #7 pl

(Deteted: September 2016

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

XY

Deleted

Requirements for Certification of Tea
Principals, Super isors, Directors, Superintendents
and Assistant $

Schools of the

revised

awachusctts Beard of Edveation
ers.

pperintendents inthe Public
ormmomscalth of Massachus

1994

ens, |

Deleted:

Deleted: BESE Regulations

Formatted: Left

Formatted: Font color: Auto

~
2
2
D
2
