DATE POSTED:

Town Clerk Use Only

AMENDED AGENDA

POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 304 § 20 Act relative te extending certain COVID-19 measures
adopted during the state af emergency

Marblehead School Committee

Name of Board or Committce

Address: Brown School Library 40 Baldwin Road Marblehead MA 01945

OR

Zoom Conference: hitps://marblehcadschools-

org.z00n).us/}/978867628 L7 ?pwd=Sh TP 6kswaj [CtbFVaC2uY On] pdiv7il. 1
Meeting ID: 978 8676 2817

Password: 610612

Dial in Phone +1 646 931 3860 US

Day of Week Month Date L Year

IL.

IV,

Agenda or Tapies to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

Initial Business
a, Call to Order
b. Pledge of Allegiance
c. Commendations
d. Public Comment

District Updates — Supt, John Robidoux
a. Updates

Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills
6. Meeting Minutes: Approve DRAFT meeting minutes. 7/24/25 Building Sub Committee,
84/25 School Committee; 8/7/25 School Committee.

School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

a, Update to MPS handbooks "Notification of rights Under the Protection of Pupil Rights Amendment
(PPRA)" (vote)

Proposed updates to MPS Bullying Intervention and Prevention Plan (vote)

High School Roof Project Members (vote) Al

Charter Committee Review (Kate)

MASS/MASC Conference. Nov 12-14, 2025

Making Ends Mect Foundation Donation

Organization of Anti-Discrimination Group (Jenn)

Mmenes
h. Year-long Agenda (Kate)
i. Sub-Committee and Liaison Updates

Vv. Closing Business
a, New Business
b. Correspondence

Vi Motion and vote to meet in executive session for the following reasons:

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3), “Purpose 3”, to discuss strategy with respect
to collective bargaining with Unit A of the Marblehead Teachers Association, as an open meeting may have
a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the public body and the chair so declares without intent to

return to open session.

Ie will also be meeting in Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21fa)(3), “Purpose 3”, to
discuss litigation, Kelley Ferretti, et. al. v. Marblehead Public Schools, John Robidoux and Al Williams
(Essex Superior Court), as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
School Conmittee and the Chair so declares.

Chair's Statement following roll call vote on the motion:

The Committee will now be meeting in Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(ayQ).
“Purpose 3”, to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with Unit A of the Marblehead
Teachers Association, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the
public bady and the chair so declares without intent to return to open session.

We will also be meeting in Executive session pursuant ta Chapter 304, Section 21(aj(3), "Purpose 3”, to
discuss litigation, Kelley Ferretti, et. al. v, Marblehead Public Schools, Jolin Robidoux and Al Williams
(Essex Superior Court), as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the

School Conmtittee and the Chair so declares.

Adjournment

Hybrid Meeting Notice: Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person at 40 Baldwin Road.
Marblehead MA 01945 or by the remote zoom connection provided. Please note that the in-person meeting
will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the remote connection.

THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Chairperson; Al Williams

Posted by: AL Williams
Date: “B95

DATE POSTED:

‘Yown Clerk Use Only

MEETING NOTICE

POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH TILE PROVISIONS OF MGE 304 § 26 Act relative to extending certain COVEID-19 measnres

adopted during the state of emergency

Marbichead School Committee

Name of Board or Committee

Address: Brown School Library 40 Baldwin Road Marblehead MA 01945

OR

Zoom Conference:

https://marbleheadschools-org. 200m .us/j/97886 7628 1TIpwd=ShT6kswajlCtbIVaC2uY Onl pdiv7fi. |
Meeting [D: 978 8676 2817

Password: 610612

Dial in Phone +1 646 931 3860 US

Thursday August [ 21 o 2025 | 6pm

{ Day of Week Month | Date . Year \ Time

Agenda or Topies to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

1 Initial Business
a, Call to Order
b. Pledge of Allegiance
c. Commendations
d. Public Comment

U. District Updates ~ Supt. John Robidoux
a. Updates

ff. Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills
b. Meeting Minutes: Approve DRAFT meeting minutes

IV, School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

a. Update to MPS handbooks "Notification of rights Under the Protection of Pupil Rights Amendment

(PPRA)" (vote)
b. Proposed updates to MPS Bullying Intervention and Prevention Plan (vote)
c. High School Roof Project Members (vote) Al
d. Charter Cominittee Review (Kate)
e. MASS/MASC Conference. Nov 12-14, 2025
{. Making Ends Meet Foundation Donation
g. Organization of Anti-Discrimination Group (Jenn)
h. Year-long Agenda (Kate)

i. Sub-Committee and Liaison Updates

Vv. Closing Business
a. New Business
b. Correspondence
VI. Motion and vote to meet in executive session for the following reasons:

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3). “Purpose 3”, to discuss strategy with respect
to collective bargaining with Unit A of the Marblehead Teachers Association, as an open meeting may have
a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the public body and the chair so declares without intent to
return to open session,

We will also be meeting in Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3), “Purpose 3”, to
discuss threatened litigation by former administrator, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on
the litigating position of the School Conimittce and the Chair so declares without intent to return to open
session,

Chair's Statement following roll call vote on the motion:

The Committee will now be meeting in Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3),
“Purpose 3”, to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with Unit A of the Marblehead
Teachers Association, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the
public body and the chair so declares without intent to return to open session.

We will also be meeting in Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3), “Purpose 3”, to
discuss threatened litigation by former administrator, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on
the litigating position of the School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return fo open
session.

Adjournment

Hybrid Meeting Notice: Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person at 40 Baldwin Road.
Marblehead MA 01945 or by the remote zoom connection provided. Please note that the in-person meeting
will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the remote connection.

THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Chairperson Al Wiliams

Posted by: “AL Williams .

Date: 8/19/25
John Robidoux
Superintendent of Schools

Julia Ferreira
Assistant Superintendent of
Teaching & Learning

Marblehead Public Schools

LisaMarie Ippolito

Student Services

Assistant Superintendent of

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-3140

Michael Pfifferling
Assistant Superintendent of
Finance & Operations

MEMORANDUM
TO: Marblehead School Committee
FROM: Michael Pfifferling, Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations
DATE: August 19 29, 2025
RE: Schedule of Bills for Approval

Included in this packet are the following Schedules of Bills for your consideration, The schedules and

invoices have been uploaded to the shared drive.

Schedule Amount
A26-4 Batch 226 $42,047.95
A26-5 $87,295.83
26915 $101,048.17
A26-6 Batch 456 531,397.48
A26-6 $113,478.68
A26-5.1 $500.00
29621 $542,266.47
Total $918,034.58

Suggested Motion:

Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $918,034.58
Draft Meeting Minutes: Facilities Sub-Committee: 7/24/25

Date: July 24, 2025 Time: 1:35 PM Location: Recorded and posted online

1. Public Comments

The meeting began with an opportunity for public comments. No public comments were offered.
A member of the public requested that committee members speak more loudly into their
microphones to improve audio quality. The subcommittee addressed this by adjusting the
microphones and turning off the air conditioning.

2. Marblehead High School Roof and HVAC Project

A discussion was held regarding the ongoing high school roof and HVAC project.
Project Team & Introductions

« Lena Long and Brian Dacon, Left Field (Owner's Project Managers)
« Gene Raymond and Molly Paris, Raymond Design Associates (Architects)
e Mike Veli, Industry Expert

Project Status & Timeline

« Design Phase: The project is currently in the design phase.

« Bidding: Bid documents are expected to be completed by the end of September, T he
bidding process will take about six weeks, with a pre-bid walkthrough for contractors
planned.

« Award: The contract is expected to be awarded around mid-November, with final
approval required from the Select Board and School Committee.

e Construction: Construction is scheduled to begin in the summer of 2026 for both the
HVAC and roof projects.

Roof Options: Recover ys. Restoration

The team presented a comparison of two roof options for the high school: a recover and a
restoration.

e Recover: Involves installing a new membrane over the existing one.
« Restoration: A multi-layer coating is applied directly to the existing membrane to extend
its life. This option has no seams.
« The committee discussed the pros and cons of both, noting that the final decision will
depend on costs determined during the bidding process.

Other Project Details

e Pre-qualification: A pre-qualification committee has not yct been formed. The
subcommittee requested a discussion on this topic at a future bi-weekly meeting.

e Roof Access: A walkthrough for committee members to view the roof's condition will be
scheduled.

+ Solar Readiness: The subcommittee discussed the possibility of adding solar panels to
the roof. The original high school roof was not designed for this. The committee agreed
to run conduit to the roof to make it "solar-ready" but not to delay the current project. The
Marblehead Light Department would be responsible for any costs and future installation
of the solar panels, The committee also discussed the need to confirm that an existing
agreement with the Light Department for a similar project at the Brown School is still
valid.

e Flag Access: The committee noted that the flag on the building's facade is difficult to
access. They plan to investigate options for making flag access safer.

3. Summer 2025 Projects
Asummary of summer projects was provided, categorized by school,
Brown School

+ Bottle filling station in the cafeteria is being installed.
e EV charging stations are being considered.
« Repairs to broken cafeteria shades and damaged trim work in the gymnasium have been

completed.
» Ashade structure for the outdoor classroom is in the planning stages and is not a

summer project.
« A fence in the parking lot is a safety risk and a priority to address.

Glover School

° New rooftop LG HVAC units have been installed and are being connected.

e Central stair area will be painted.

e Whiteboard paint in hallways will be refreshed.

e Anew piece of playground equipment is being installed, and the playground surface
will be resurfaced. :

Village School
e Windows will be inspected and recaulked.

> Anew scoreboard will be delivered on August !st and stored until installation the
following week.

« Serving lines in the cafeteria will be replaced.

Veterans Memorial School (Vets)

« Mini-split system is being installed in the computer lab.

« Seats in the auditorium (PACC) are being reupholstered.

« Painting of the auditorium (PACC) has started.

» Aroof project for the D-wing and new HVAC units are underway.

« Gymnasium wall padding is being replaced.

» The basement is being cleaned out.

» Adoor is being installed between the Magic Hat Shop and the school,
¢ New kitchen equipment is being installed.

High School

» Mini-split systems are being installed in the food service and athletic director's offices.

» New main entry doors are almost complete.

» The main staircase is being repainted.

e New clocks are being installed.

« An auditorium door and frame will be replaced.

¢ Boiler replacement is planned.

« Grease trap replacement will be funded by the food service revolving account.

« Cafeteria speaker upgrade is planned for safety.

« New fire doors at the main office are being addressed after the contractor was
unresponsive.

« An electronically controlled gate is being installed at the post office entrance.

e The IT office received a new HVAC unit.

4. Five-Year Report Review
The committee discussed a report on facility needs that was completed in 2021.

¢ The report was a comprehensive assessment of all school buildings, which was
condensed into a 10-year plan.

e Mike has requested an update from the maintenance team on all projects completed from
this report.

e The committee agreed to review the report and related spreadsheets to identify what has
been completed and what still needs to be addressed.

¢ The discussion also touched on the possibility of a feasibility study for an early
childhood program, which could utilize a school building for a new educational model.
The committee is considering funding this study and potentially working with the MSBA,
which has recently begun supporting early childhood projects.

5, Other Business

© The committee will work to schedule a walkthrough of each school building in the carly
fall.

« The committee discussed the need for a formal asset management system to track
maintenance and repairs.

+» The committee talked about the need for new building signage at Veterans, Village, and
Glover Schools.

« A meeting will be scheduled for the week after school starts to address the opening of
schools and to formalize the pre-qualification committee for the high school roof project.

The meeting was adjourned.
Draft Minutes of School Committee Meeting: 8/4/25

Strategic Planning and Goal Setting (00:60:00-01:10:00)

a. Goal 1 (Policy Review) progress and continuation discussed
» Policy subcommittee started review process for updated policies

¢ MASC recommended changes to 137 policies since March 2023, with new bulletin
expected by end of August including competency determination policies

¢ Committee to prioritize required MASC updates before broader maintenance reviews
¢ Recommended monthly/bi-monthly subcommittee meetings reviewing two sections
ata time
b. Goal 2 (Communications) status reviewed with completed and outstanding items
identified
* Completed: communications subcommittee created, newsletter template developed,
website update process established through superintendent

+ Outstanding: improving meeting minutes timeliness, visible time clock for public
comment, team building activities, community surveys, local media relationships

* Need to read public comment policy at beginning of each public comment period
c, Goals 3 (Budget Process) and future year planning discussed
« Goal 3 largely met with clear timeline, robust workshops, and early budget approval

« Potential new goals: relationship repair with teachers/staff, portrait of a graduate
(support NEASC process rather than lead), ex officio membership evaluation

° Student outcomes metrics and data collection needs identified, recommended to wait
for NEASC completion before establishing success metrics goals

Operating Protocols and Governance Discussion (G2

a. Accountability mechanisms for operating protocols
¢ Chair responsible for conversations with members who violate protocols
e Districts may use censure for significant violations if policy exists

« Operating protocols should be adopted by vote and signed by all members including
superintendent

b. Annual adoption and review procedures
¢ Vote on protocols annually at first fall meeting after summer review

e Legal counsel training over summer recommended as best practice
c. Building project committee structure clarification

« School building advisory committee should be created by superintendent, not as

school committee subcommittee

¢ Advisory committees have different structure than subcommittees and different open

meeting Jaw requirements

¢ Committee previously voted to make facility subcommittee the roof project
subcommittee with annual membership revoting

a. Committee discussed logistics for continuing with training activities
Refreshments available including fruit, muffins and coffee

» Alicia Benjamin explained training component not subject to open meeting law
requirements

* committee could adjourn formal meeting or continue with remaining business if brief
» Trainings are generic and involve no deliberations about committee business

b, Committee confirmed completion of formal agenda items and prepared to transition to
training
« No other agenda items remaining on formal meeting agenda

+ John Robidoux returning at 10 o'clock for another commitment

Brief break taken to set up materials for training portion

Ethics and Conflict of Interest Training (01:3

a. Committee received conflict of interest training under Massachusetts General Laws
Chapter 268A covering prohibitions on using public resources for personal /political
purposes, taking official action affecting personal financial interests or immediate family
members, and participating in employment decisions for immediate family

b. Training addressed gift restrictions (cannot accept items worth $50+ for official duties),
confidentiality requirements for executive sessions and personnel records, and distinction
between actual conflicts (requiring written disclosure and recusal) versus appearance of
conflicts (optional disclosure, continued participation allowed)

c. Members advised to contact state ethics commission for guidance before acting on
potential conflicts; violations can result in fines up to $10,000 with enforcement ranging
from educational letters to criminal prosecution

Open Meeting Law Training (

a. Conflict of interest and Open Meeting Law scope requirements
« Members advised to provide complete facts when seeking ethics commission opinions;
hidden facts could result in different guidance and potential $10,000 fines per violation

¢ Open Meeting Law applies to all deliberations through any medium including email,
texting, and social media on public business within committee jurisdiction

° A quorum constitutes a majority of members; two-member subcommittees cannot
have private conversations about policies they will discuss

* Serial communications through multiple individual conversations that collectively
involve a quorum violate open meeting law

b. Meeting posting and public comment procedures

+ All meetings must be posted at least 48 hours in advance excluding weekends and
holidays, with specific location details and agendas required

» Emergency agenda additions permitted only for items chair could not reasonably have
known about within 48 hours

« Public comment not required unless committee policy mandates it; should limit
overall time periods and individual speaker time to typically three minutes

¢ Chairs cannot control disrespectful speech unless actual threats are made
c, Executive session and documentation requirements

+ Executive sessions require convening in open session first, roll call votes with each
member's vote recorded, and chair announcements of purpose

sions occur; open session minutes

e Two sets of minutes required when executive s
always disclosable, executive session minutes subject to periodic review

+ Committee members strongly advised against texting or emailing during meetings as

communications are visible to public and subject to records requests

Open Meeting Law Training Continued and Public Records Law Overview
(02:44:00-02:51:00)

a. Open Meeting Law Electronic Communications Scenarios:

e Texting during meetings about voting plans or consulting outside groups violates open
meeting law by creating private deliberations

« All texting during meetings should be avoided as public cannot distinguish personal
from official communications

¢ Emergency communications about superintendent employment matters require
proper 48-hour meeting posting; job searches are not emergencies requiring immediate

action

b. Public Records Law Requirements:
* Committee members must never respond directly to public records requests—only
designated records access officer handles these

¢ All government documents, emails, texts, photos, and videos by district
employees/committee members are presumed public unless specific exemptions apply

e Records access officer has 10 business days to respond and must explain any

exemption denials
c. Electronic Communications Best Practices:

¢ All written communications may become public records—only write what you would
not mind being disclosed

+ Never use schoo} committee email for personal business; no expectation of privacy in
district accounts

» Personal email accounts used for committee business subject to public records
searches—use only official channels

« All deliberations must occur in properly posted public meetings, not through
electronic communications

8:00)

a. Personal communications handling and public records request procedures

* Committee members should forward personal emails about school business to official
accounts and respond from there to avoid creating records trails in personal accounts

+ Public records requests must be directed to the records access officer, not handled
directly by committee members

» Records access officers must search and review all relevant communications for
comprehensive requests between members

b. Communications subject to disclosure and best practices

« Communications germane to committee deliberations during posted meetings are
releasable; purely personal comments are not

* Any written communication during meetings (electronic or notes) creates public
records issues

« Phone calls preferable to written communications as they leave no records trail
° Personal communications like coordinating child pickup are not subject to disclosure

c. Committee roles and spokesperson protocols

¢ Key responsibilities include hiring/evaluating superintendent, adopting curriculum,
establishing policies, setting goals, and collective bargaining
e Only designated spokesperson can speak for the committee and must represent
committee position even if it differs from their personal vote

School Committee Governance and Communications (62:58:00-03:38:00)

a, Committee completed training on member roles, responsibilities, and authority
limitations
* Members have no individual authority and can only act through votes at properly
posted meetings
« Concerns must be directed through superintendent, not directly to principals or
administrators
¢ Individual members cannot direct business manager or administrators to change
procedures without committee approval
b. Training covered communications protocols and ethics requirements
» Chair serves as official spokesperson and must communicate committee's voted
position even if it differs from personal view
» Individual members can express personal opinions but must clarify they don't speak
for the committee
¢ Members cannot use position for special treatment of their children or to intimidate
administrators
* Violations of these principles constitute state ethics law violations
c, Committee reviewed unfair labor practice restrictions and proper union communications
° Members cannot bypass union leadership to communicate directly with employees
about contract matters

« Communications from committee members viewed as official regardless of disclaimers
* Must avoid statements that could chill employees’ union rights

d. A motion was made by [Name] and seconded by [Name] to adjourn the meeting. The
motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: Al Williams, Kate Schmeckpeper, Jennifer
Schaeffner, Henry Gwazda, The meeting adjourned at___.
Draft Minutes of School Committee Meeting: 8/7/25

Meeting Opening and Procedural Matters (00:00:00-00:04:00)

a. Al Williams called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM with technical issues noted on
YouTube live stream

b. Motion by Henry Gwazda, seconded by Kate Schmeckpeper to declare the seat vacant that
was left by Brian Oda's resignation. The motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: Jennifer
Schaeffner, Henry Gwazda, Kate Schmeckpeper, Al Williams

» Jennifer Schaeffner questioned this procedure, noting the committee had never done
this before and asking if it had been reviewed by legal counsel

¢ Al Williams indicated this was recommended by Thatcher Keezer but had not been run

by legal counsel

D0)

High School Roof Project Advisory Committee Discussion (00:0.

a, Committee discussed structure options for roof project oversight:

¢ Jennifer Schaeffner raised procurement law questions and transparency concerns
about superintendent advisory committees not subject to open meeting law

«John Robidoux acknowledged need for separate committee from facility subcommittee
and supported school committee involvement for transparency

» Kate Schmeckpeper clarified school committee advisory committees are subject to
open meeting law per policy

b. A motion was made by Kate Schmeckpeper and seconded by Henry Gwazda to establish a
subcommittee for oversight of the high school roof project consisting of Henry Gwazda,
administration members recommended by John Robidoux, and tasking Henry with
recommending community members with subject matter expertise by the August 21st
meeting. The motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: Jennifer Schaeffner, Henry Gwaada,
Kate Schmeckpeper, Al Williams

Executive Session Motion and Meeting Conclusion (00:19:00-00:24:00)

a. Executive session motion for two purposes without intent to return to open session:

+ Strategy discussion for collective bargaining with Unit A of Marblehead Teachers
Association (Chapter 30A, Section 21A3, Purpose 3)

« Strategy discussion for threatened litigation by former administrator (Chapter 30A,
Section 21A3, Purpose 3)
b. A motion was made by [Name] and seconded by [Name] to enter executive session for the
stated purposes. The motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: Jennifer Schaeffner, Henry
Gwazda, Kate Schmeckpeper, Al Williams

c. Henry Gwazda reported consultation with state ethics commission confirmed no issues
with his participation and submitted disclosure of appearance of conflict of interest with
town clerk as public record
Recommended update to all Marblehead Public Schoo! Handbooks in the “Notification of
rights Under the Protection of Pupil Rights Amendment (PPRO)” Appendix FE section
(updates in red):

The Protection of Pupil Rights Amendment (PPRA) affords parents/guardians certain rights
regarding the District’s conducting of surveys, collection, and the use of information for
marketing purposes, and certain physical exams. These include the right to:

- Consent before students are required to submit to a survey that concerns one or more of the
following protected areas (“protected information survey”), if the survey is funded in whole or in
part by a program of the U.S. Department of Education (DOE): political affiliations or beliefs of
the student or student's parent; mental or psychological problems of the student or student's
family; sex behavior or attitudes; illegal, anti-social, selfincriminating, or demeaning behavior,
critical appraisals of others with whom respondents have close family relationships; legally
recognized privileged relationships, such as with lawyers, doctors, or ministers; religious
practices, affiliations, or beliefs of the student or parents; and/or income, other than as required
by law to determine program eligibility,

- Notice and an opportunity to opt a student out of the following: any other protected information
survey, regardless of funding; any non-emergency, invasive physical exam or screening required
as a condition of attendance, administered by the school or its agent, and not necessary to protect
the immediate health and safety of a student, except for hearing, vision, or scoliosis screenings,
or any physical exam or screening permitted or required under State law; and activities involving
collection, disclosure, or use of personal information obtained from students for marketing or to
sell or otherwise distribute the information to others.

- Inspect, upon request and before administration or use: protected information surveys of
students; instruments used to collect personal information from students for any of the above
marketing, sales, or other distribution purposes; and instructional material used as part of the
educational curriculum,

The above rights transfer from the parents to a student who is eighteen (18) years old or an
emancipated minor under State law,

Marblehead Public Schools utilizes the student/family handbook to notify parents/guardians at
the start of each school year in accordance with Marblehead School Committee policy ILD and
outline any substantive changes that may have been made fo that policy. The Marblehead School
Committee policy ILD (1o be linked) outlines parent/guardian rights regarding student
submission to educational surveys and research.

Marblehead Public Schools utilizes a variety of surveys and activities to gather feedback and
information from students.

The District will directly notify parents/guardians via email when students are scheduled to
participate in specific activities or surveys that concern any of the following :
|. Political affiliations or beliefs of the student or student's parent/guardian;
2. Mental or psychological problems of the student or student's family;

3. Sex behavior or attitudes;

4. Itegal, anti-social, self-incriminating, or demeaning behavior;

5S. Critical appraisals of others with whom respondents have close family relationships;

6. Legally recognized privileged relationships, such as with lawyers, doctors, or ministers;
7. Religious practices, affiliations, or beliefs of the student or parents/guardian; or

8. Income, other than as required by law to determine eligibility for school programs or for
receiving financial assistance under such program.

Parents/guardians will be provided reasonable notification of the planned activities and surveys
listed above, and will be provided an opportunity to opt their child out of such activities and
Surveys.

Parents will also be provided an opportunity to review any pertinent, specific activities and
surveys covered under this requirement, which include: the collection, disclosure, or use of
personal information for marketing, sales or other distribution; the administration of any
protected information survey not funded in whole or in part by Department of Education, and
any non-emergency, invasive physical examination or screening as described above.

Parents who believe their rights under PPRA have been violated may file a complaint with:

Student Privacy Policy Office
U.S. Department of Education
400 Maryland Avenue, SW

Washington, D.C, 20202-590 |
Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan
- Marblehead Public Schools -

Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan 1
Marblehead Public Schools
[ TABLE OF CONTENTS

I, LEADERSHIP

IL. TRAINING AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
II. ACCESS TO RESOURCES AND SERVICES

IV. ACADEMIC AND NON-ACADEMIC ACTIVITIES

Vv. POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR REPORTING AND
RESPONDING TO BULLYING AND RETALIATION

VI. COLLABORATION WITH FAMILIES

VII. PROHIBITION AGAINST BULLYING AND RETALIATION
VUI. PROBLEM RESOLUTION SYSTEM

IX. DEFINITIONS

X. RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS

APPENDIX A: BULLYING PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION
BULLYING INCIDENT REPORTING FORM

The Department of Elementary and Secondary Education created the Model Bullying Prevention and
Intervention Plan required under M.G.L, c. 71, § 370, in consultation with state agencies, school personnel,
advocacy organizations, and other interested parties. The Model Plan’s format parallels the draft Behavioral
Health and Public Schools Framework and is designed to be used by schools and the school districts as a
framework for consistency in implementation, decision-making and planning strategies. Marblehead Public
Schools accepts and uses the Model Plan.

Please note that in the Model Plan and in other Department publications, the word “target” is used instead
of “victim” and “aggressor” instead of “perpetrator.”

The Model Plan used by Marblehead Public Schools applies to students and members of all of the school’s
staff, including, but not limited to educators, administrators, school nurses, cafeteria workers, custodians,
bus drivers and monitors, athletic coaches, paraprofessionals, tutors, and advisors to an extracurricular

activity.

On April 24, 2014, Chapter 86 of the Acts of 2014 was signed into law, amending G.L. ¢.71, §370, the anti-
bullying statute and the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education issued an update! to reflect
these changes._https://malegislature.gov/Laws/SessionLaws/Acts/20 1 4/Chapter86

1 The Model Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan was also revised in 2013 to reflect the change in the definition of “perpetrator” to include
amember of the school staff. .

Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan
Marblehead Public Schools
The changes now in effect require school districts, charter schools, approved private day or residential
schools, and collaborative schools to “recognize” in their bullying prevention and intervention plans
that certain enumerated categories of students? may be more vulnerable to being targets of bullying
based on actual or perceived differentiating characteristics, Such districts and schools must also include
in the plan the specific steps they will take to support these vulnerable students and provide all students
the skills, knowledge and strategies they need to prevent or respond to bullying or harassment. Under
the new law, school districts, charter schools, approved private day or residential schools, and
collaborative schools must notify parents and guardians of targets of bullying of the availability of the
Department’s problem resolution system and assist these parents and guardians in understanding the
problem resolution process.? Chapter 86 also addresses the data reporting and collection obligations of
school districts, charter schools, approved private day or residential schools, and collaborative schools,
requiring them to collect and report the following data to the Department: 1) the number of reported
allegations of bullying or retaliation; 2) the number and nature of substantiated incidents of bullying
and retaliation; 3) the number of students disciplined for engaging in bullying or retaliation, and 4) other
information required by the Department.* (The Department is required to analyze the data and to issue
a report annually to the legislature which contains statewide aggregated data on the nature and frequency
of bullying in schools.) Additionally, Chapter 86 requires school districts, charter schools, approved
private day or residential schools, and collaborative schools to administer a Department-developed
student survey af least once every four year's to assess “school climate and the prevalence, nature and
severity of bullying in schools.’ (The Department will use survey results to, among other things, assess
the effectiveness of bullying prevention curricula and instruction and identify log-term trends and areas
of improvement, and will make its findings available to school officials.) The law also authorizes school
districts, charter schools, approved private day or residential schools, and collaborative schools to adopt
an anti-bullying seal to represent its commitment to bullying prevention and intervention,

2 Each plan shall recognize that certain students may be more vulnerable to becoming 4 target of bullying or harassment based on actual or
perceived differentiating characteristics, including race, cotor, religion, ancestry, national origi, sex, socioeconomic status, homelessness,
academic status, gender identity or expression, physical appearance, pregnant or parenting status, sexual orientation, mental, physical,
developmental or sensory disability, or by association with a pecson wha has or is perceived lo have | or more of these characteristics.

3 GL. 71 §370(k). The Department is required to analyze and to issue a report annually to the legistature which contains statewide aggregated
data on the nature aud frequency of bullying in schools.

4GL.0.71 § 3708).

5G.L.o. 71, §370(k).

Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan
Marblehead Public Schools
[L_ LEADERSHIP

Leadership at all levels plays a critical role in developing and implementing Bullying Prevention
and Intervention Plans (“the Plan”) in the context of other whole school and community efforts to
promote positive school climate. Leaders have a primary role in teaching students to be civil to
one another and promote understanding of and respect for diversity and difference.

Leadership is responsible for setting priorities and for staying up-to-date with current research
on ways to prevent and effectively respond to bullying. It is also the responsibility of leaders to
involve representatives from the greater school and local community in developing and
implementing the Plan,

Marblehead Public Schools’ administrators and staff will provide, coordinate and oversee
district professional development with respect to bullying, author the district Plan and provide
consultation to ensure adherence to M.G.L. c. 71, § 370 as well as the requirements outlined in
Chapter 86 of the Acts of 2014.

Additionally, there ave a number of levels of leadership with both specific and broad
responsibilities for setting priorities and for staying up-to-date with current research on ways to
prevent and effectively respond to bullying. Central office administrators, building principals,
and assistant principals have specific responsibilities with respect fo implementation and
oversight of the Plan as well as professional development. Members of the school-based task
force(s) and site-based teams are also considered to have responsibilities related to contribution,
development, assessment, and implementation of the Plan. Additionally, school staff, including
but not limited to, educators, administrators, support staff, related service providers, school
nurses, secretaries, cafeteria workers, custodians, bus drivers, athletic coaches and advisors to
extra-curricular activities also have both specific and broad responsibilities as leaders in the

district.

The Administrative Council held several meetings to collaborate on the development of the draft
plan. The council to develop the plan consisted of the superintendent, special education director,
building principals, assistant principals, special education team chairpersons, curriculum
coordinators, METCO director, athletic director, school psychologist and behavior specialist.

The building principal or his/her designee is responsible for collecting and analyzing building
and/or school-wide data on bullying fo assess the present problem and to measure improved
outcomes. In collaboration with the building principals, the building’s task force and site-based
management teams will collect information regarding the efficacy of implemented interventions,

A district-wide reporting form has been developed to track and document incidents. This form
aligns with the model form offered by the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and
Secondary Education. The building principal or his/her designee is responsible for creating a
process for tracking incident reports, accessing information related to targets and aggressors
and sharing information across grade spans.

Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan
Marblehead Public Schoots
Public involvement in developing the Plan:
A. As required by M.G.L. c. 71, § 370, Marblehead’s Plan was developed, and is reviewed

biennially, in consultation with required stakeholders. Consultation included notice and a
public comment period before the Plan was adopted by the school committee. The District, at
its discretion, may also choose to involve constituency representation in other aspects of Plan
development and if chosen, will identify the ways in which each constituency will be involved.

B, Assessing needs and resources,
Marblehead’s Bullying Prevention and Implementation Plan is the district’s blueprint for
enhancing capacity fo prevent and respond to issues of bullying within the context of other
healthy school climate initiatives. As part of the planning process, school leaders, with input
from families and staff will assess the adequacy of current programs; review current policies
and procedures; review available data on bullying and behavioral incidents; and assess
available resources including curricula, training programs, and behavioral health services,
This “mapping” process will assist schools and districts in identifying resource gaps and the
most significant areas of need. Based on these findings, the district will revise or develop
policies and procedures; establish partnerships with community agencies, including law
enforcement; and set priorities,

C, At least once every four years, the District will administer a Department of Elementary and
Secondary-developed student survey to assess school climate and the prevalence, nature, and
severity of bullying in our schools. Additionally, the school or district will annually report
bullying incident data to the Department. Planning and oversight.

The following identifies Marblehead’s leaders who are responsible for the following tasks
under the plan:
1. Receiving reports on bullying:
The school principal and/or assistant principal will be responsible for receiving reports
of bullying from any and all sources,
2, Collecting and analyzing data to measure outcomes:
Principal and/or assistant principal, in collaboration with the Assistant Superintendent
of Student Services.
3. Process for recording and tracking incident reports:
a) Individual Student Incident Files are kept in a location designated by the principal
and reported to the Assistant Superintendent of Student Services,
b) The building principal is responsible for making a copy of the Incident Report
to input on State reports online.
4, Ongoing Professional Development:
The principal is responsible for coordinating all ongoing professional development
for staff in the principal’s school building as directed by the Assistant
Superintendent of Student Services and as required by the law.

Bullying Prevention aud Intervention Plan
Marblehead Public Schools
5. Individual building-based plans to respond to identified needs of targets and
aggressors:
The building principal is responsible for developing a building-based plan to
respond to the identified needs of targets and aggressors in collaboration with staff
in each building/school.
6. Choosing and implementing Bullying Prevention curricula:
The building principal will determine the bullying prevention curricula that will be
implemented at each grade span (K-3, 4-6, 7-8, 9-12) through consultation with staff
in each building.
7. Developing new or revising current policies/protocols:
a) The building principal will develop, revise and/or update protocols
and procedures that are building-specific
b) System-wide policy recommendations will be developed, revised and/or
updated by the Assistant Superintendent of Student Services in collaboration
with key stakeholders within the school system and submitted to Superintendent
for review and presentation for school cominittee approval.
8. Amending student and staff handbooks and codes of conduct:
The building principal is responsible for any amendments made to student and staff
handbooks and codes of conduct, which nvust then be approved by Schoo!
Committee
9, Leading the family engagement efforts and drafting parent information materials:

a) The building principals, in cooperation with the Assistant Superintendent of
Student Services are responsible for leading the family engagement efforts
with assistance from school staff.

b)} The building principals, in cooperation with the Assistant Superintendent of
Student Services are responsible for drafting and distributing parent
information and materials with assistance from school staff,

10. Reviewing and updating the district plan:
Building principals/assistant principals will collaborate with the Assistant
Superintendent of Student Services and make recommendations to the
Superintendent to review and update the plan as required by law.

Priority Statements,
Priority statements are used to communicate within the Plan the Marblehead Public

Schools’ vision in creating and implementing the District’s bullying prevention and
intervention strategies, Mathlehead Public Schools’ priority statement is listed below:

The Marblehead Public Schools (MPS) expects that all members of the school community
will treat each other in a civil manner and with respect for differences. MPS is committed to
providing all students with a safe learning environment that is free from bullying,
cyberbullying, and retaliation. This commitment is an integral part of our comprehensive
efforts to promote learning, and to prevent and eliminate all forms of bullying and other
harmful and disruptive behavior that can impede the learning process.

We recognize that certain students may be more vulnerable to become targets of bullying,
harassment, or teasing based on actual or perceived characteristics, including race, color,

Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan
Marblehead Public Schools
religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, socioeconomic status, homelessness, academic status,
gender identity or expression, physical appearance, pregnant or parenting status, sexual
orientation, mental, physical, or sensory disability, or by association with a person who has
or is perceived to have one or more of these characteristics,

Marblehead Public Schools will identify specific steps it will take to create a safe, supportive
environment for vulnerable populations in the school community, and provide all students
with the skills, knowledge, and strategies to prevent or respond to bullying, harassment, or
teasing. Nothing in this section shall alter the obligations of a school district to remediate any
discrimination or harassment based on a person’s membership in a legally protected category
under local, state, or federal laws and regulations.

The District recognizes that there may be situations in which two or more students engage in
acommon scheme of behavior towards a target that does not meet the legal definition of
“bullying” but that negatively impacts the target and the learning environment.
Notwithstanding the fact that such conduct may not meet the statutory definition of
“bullying,” (for example, because each aggressor engages in the behavior only once) MPS
recognizes that these situations may carry the same impact as bullying and will respond to
reports of such behavior the same way it would respond to a report of bullying.

The Marblehead Public Schools (MPS) will not tolerate any unlawful or disruptive behavior,
including any form of bullying, cyberbullying, or retaliation in our school buildings, on
school grounds, or in school-related activities. MPS will investigate promptly all reports and
complaints of bullying, cyberbullying, and/or retaliation, and will take prompt action to end
that behavior and to restore the target’s sense of safety. MPS will support this commitment
in all aspects of our school community, including curricula, instructional programs, staff
development, extracurricular activities, and parent or guardian involvement.

The Marblehead Public Schools’ Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan (“Plan”) is a
comprehensive approach to addressing bullying, cyberbullying, and retaliation, MPS is
committed to working with students, staff, families, law enforcement agencies, and the
community to prevent issues of violence and bullying in District programs. In consultation
with these constituencies, we have established this Plan for preventing, intervening, and
responding to incidents of bullying, cyberbullying, and/or retaliation. The principal is
responsible for the implementation and oversight of the Plan within the Principal’s school,
except when a reported bullying incident involves the principal or the assistant principal as
the alleged aggressor. In such cases, the Superintendent or designee shall be responsible for
investigating the report, and other steps necessary to implement the Plan, including
addressing the safety of the alleged target. If the Superintendent is the alleged aggressor, the
School Committee or its designee shall be responsible for investigating the report, and other
steps necessary to implement the Plan, including addressing the safety of the alleged target.

| IL. ‘TRAINING AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT

M.G.L. c. 71, § 370 requires that the District provide ongoing professional development for all
staff, including but not Jimited to, educators, administrators, counselors, school nurses, cafeteria
workers, custodians, bus drivers, athletic coaches, advisors to extracurricular activities, and
paraprofessionals, Marblehead Public Schools is committed to providing ongoing professional

Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan
Marblehead Public Schools
development opportunities related to bullying to educate and train staff. The following outlines
the content and frequency of staff training and ongoing professional development as related to
the district's needs. The identified areas of training are based on needs and concerns identified

by school and district staff,

The law lists six (6) topics that must be included in professional development. Additional topics
may be identified by school or district leadership as they consider the unique needs of the
school or district community. The Plan also identifies which trainings will be provided district-
wide and which will be school-based.

On the building level, principals will be expected to keep staff current in both practices and
procedures needed to support bullying prevention within individual schools.

A, Annual staff training on the Plan.
Annual training for all school staff on the Plan will include staff duties and reporting

responsibilities under the Plan, an overview of the steps that the principal or designee will
follow upon receipt of a report of bullying, cyberbullying or retaliation, and an overview of
the bullying prevention curricula to be offered at all grades throughout the school or
district, Staff members hired after the start of the school year are required to participate in
school-based training during the school year in which they are hired, unless they can
demonstrate participation in an acceptable and comparable program within the last two

years.

* Marblehead Public Schools will provide yearly onsite training through the Office of
Teaching and Learning to all staff divided by grade span that includes, at a
minimum, all of the components required by law,

B. Ongoing professional development.
The goal of professional development is to establish a common understanding of tools
necessary for staff to create a school climate that promotes safety, civil communication,
and respect for differences. Professional development will teach staff members to prevent,
identify, and respond to bullying, including groups identified with increased vulnerability
to bullying, As required by M.G.L. c. 71, § 370, the content of school-wide and district-
wide professional development will be informed by research and best practices and will
include discussion of groups identified with increased vulnerability,

Additional areas identified by Marblehead Public Schools for professional
development include:

* promoting and modeling the use of respectful language;

fostering an understanding of and respect for diversity and difference;
building relationships and communicating with families;

constructively managing classroom behaviors;

using positive behavioral intervention strategies;

applying constructive disciplinary practices;

teaching students skills including positive communication, anger management,
and empathy for others;

engaging students in school or classroom planning and decision-making; and
maintaining a safe and caring classroom for all students.

Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan
Marblehead Public Scttaals
C. Written notice to staff.
The school or district will provide all staff with an annual written notice of the Plan by
publishing information about it, including sections related to staff duties, in the school

or District employee handbook and the code of conduct.

[ III, ACCESS TO RESOURCES AND SERVICES

A key aspect of promoting positive school climates is ensuring that the underlying emotional
needs of targets, aggressors, families, and others are addressed. Marblehead’s Bullying
Prevention and Intervention Plan includes strategies for providing supports and services
necessary to meet these needs. Additionally, the plan includes the District’s strategy for
providing counseling or referral to appropriate services for aggressors, targets, and family
members of those students.

A, Identifying resources.
Building principals, through the use of appropriate staff, will identify the available
resources and will annually review programs and curricula that support a positive school

environment.

B. Counseling and other services.
MPS provides a variety of therapeutic and skill-based services to students within the
educational setting that include emotional support, risk assessment, crisis
intervention, and help with community-based counseling referrals when appropriate.

Appropriate building and District staff meet with parents and teachers as needed to help
address students’ academic, emotional, and behavioral concerns. Every school has a
Teacher Assistance Team that meets regularly to discuss individual students, Staff also
collaborates with administrators to provide linguistically appropriate resources to
identified families and maintain current information on Community Service Agencies
(CSAs) within the local area.

C, Students with disabilities.
As required by M,G.L. c. 71B, § 3, as amended by Chapter 92 of the Acts of 2010, when

the JEP Team determines an eligible student has a disability that affects social skills

development or the student may participate in, or is vulnerable to, bullying, harassment,
or teasing because of their disability, the Team will consider what should be included in
the IEP to develop the student's skills and proficiencies to avoid and respond to bullying,

harassment, or teasing.

The Marblehead Public Schools recognizes that students with disabilities may need
additional curricular and therapeutic supports in order to avoid bullying behaviors, or to
avoid becoming the target of bullying behaviors. Within the context of their IEPs,
students with disabilities who have needs in this area may receive specialized instruction,
accommodations, and/or supports. This may include instruction as to direct and indirect
ways to react to and avoid bullying behavior.. Most of our students with disabilities also
participate in general education classroom instruction that supports the creation of a
positive school environment, such as Responsive Classroom, Steps to

Bullying Prevention and litervention Plan
Marblehead Public Schools
Success, Allies, health and wellness classes and philosophy groups.

D. Referral to outside services.
Clear protocols help students and families access appropriate and timely services. The

Marblehead Public Schools has an established practice for referring students and families

to outside services when determined necessary. The referral process is in compliance

with all relevant laws and school policies. Current referral practices will be reviewed and

evaluated to assess their relevance to the Plan and revised as needed,

[IV. _ ACADEMIC AND NON-ACADEMIC ACTIVITIES

Marblehead Public Schools provide age-appropriate instruction on bullying prevention in
each grade that is incorporated into the district’s curricula. Curricula is evidence-based.
Effective instruction inclides classroom approaches, whole school initiatives, and focused
strategies for bullying prevention and social skills development.

A Specific bullying prevention approaches.
Bullying prevention curricula will be informed by current research regarding bullying
prevention and will, at a minimum, cover all of the areas required by law,

Initiatives will also teach students about the student-related sections of the Marblehead
Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan through school assemblies, school-wide and
classroom community meetings,

B General teaching approaches that support bullying prevention efforts,
Marblehead Public Schools believes in a safe and supportive school environment and

utilizes general teaching approaches that support bullying prevention efforts, inclusive of

the areas identified in the DESE’s Model Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan,

¥. POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR REPORTING AND RESPONDING TO
BULLYING AND RETALIATION

To support efforts to respond promptly and effectively to bullying and retaliation, Marblehead
Public Schools has policies and consistent procedures in place for receiving and responding to
reports of bullying or retaliation. These policies and procedures ensure that members of the
school community ~ students, parents, and staff — know what will happen when incidents of
bullying occur. The following procedures detail procedures for staff reporting of incidents,
processes for communicating to students and families how reports can be made (including
anonymous reports), and procedures to be followed by the principal or designee once a report is
made, These procedures are based on the requirements of M.G.L. c. 71, § 370 and 603 CMR

49.00,

A, Reporting bullying or retaliation.

Reports of bullying or retaliation may be made by staff, students, parents or guardians, or

others, and may be oral or written. Oral reports made by or to a staff member shall be
recorded in writing. Employees are required to report immediately (without any

Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan
Marblehead Public Schools

10

unnecessary delay) to the principal or principal’s designee any instance of bullying or
retaliation they become aware of or witness. Reports made by students, parents or
guardians, or other individuals who are not school or district staff members may be
made anonymously. The school or District will make a variety of reporting resources
available to the school and community including, but not limited to, an Bullying
Incident Reporting Form, principal’s phone number and email address, and the
school’s mailing address as listed here:

Marblehead High School (781) 639-3100 carlson.michele@marbleheadschools.org
2 Humphrey Street, Marblehead, MA 01945

Marblehead Veterans M.S. (781) 639-3120
levangie.matthew@marbleheadschools.org ,217 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA

01945

Village School (781) 639-3159 williams.scott@marbleheadschools.org
93 Village Street, Marblehead, MA 01945

Brown Elementary School (781) 639-3112 _maxfield.mary(@marbleheadschools.org
40 Baldwin Road, Marblehead, MA 01945

Glover Elementary School (781) 639-3190 kowalski.frank@marbleheadschools.org
9 Maple Street, Marblehead, MA 01945

Use of a Bullying Incident Reporting Form is not required as a condition of making a
report. A copy of the Bullying Incident Reporting Form will be provided to all families
in the beginning of the year packets for students and parents and/or guardians. The
form will be made available in each school’s main office, the counseling office, the
school nurse's office, and any other locations determined by the principal or designee.
A link to a downloadable copy of the form is posted on the MPS website and at the end
of this Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan. The Bullying Incident Reporting
Form will be made available in the most prevalent language(s) of origin of students and
parents or guardians.

At the beginning of each school year, Marblehead Public Schools will provide the school
community, including administrators, staff, students, and parents or guardians, with
written notice of its policies for reporting acts of bullying and retaliation. A description of
the reporting procedures and resources, including the name and contact information of the
principal or designee, will be incorporated in student and staff handbooks, on the school or
District website, and in information about the Plan that is made available to parents or

guardians.

If the reported incident involves students from another school (public, charter, non-
public), the principal or designee will notify that school’s principal or designee. Staff
will maintain compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations throughout an
investigation and in providing notice to the parties of the outcome of an investigation
conducted.. 603 CMR 49.00
Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan

ci

Alarbleltead Public Schools

i.

Is

Reporting by Staff.

A staff member will report immediately (without unnecessary delay) to the principal or
principal’s designee when the staff member witnesses or becomes aware of conduct that
may be bullying or retaliation. The requirement to report to the principal or designee
does not limit the authority of the staff member to respond to behavioral or disciplinary
incidents consistent with school or district policies and procedures for behavior
management and discipline. Staff do not fulfill their responsibility to report bullying to
the principal or designee through the submission of an anonymous report.

Reporting by Students, Parents or Guardians, and Others,

The Marblehead Public Schools expects and encourages students, parents /guardians, and
others who witness or become aware of an instance of bullying or retaliation involving a
student to report it to the principal of the school or to the principal’s designee for such
purposes. Reports may be made anonymously, but no disciplinary action will be taken
against an alleged aggressor solely on the basis of an anonymous report, Students, parents
/guardians, and others may request assistance from a staff member to complete a written
report. Students will be provided practical, safe, private and age-appropriate ways to
report and discuss an incident of bullying or retaliation with a staff member, or with the
principal or designee.

Responding to a report of bullying or retaliation,

1. Safety

Before fully investigating the allegations of bullying or retaliation, the principal or
designee will assess the need to restore a sense of safety to the alleged target and/or to
protect the alleged target from possible further incidents, There may be circumstances in
which the principal or designee, at their sole discretion and in accordance with
applicable Jaw, contacts parents or guardians of the alleged target and/or aggressor prior
to any investigation. Any such prior notice, will be consistent with state regulations at
603 CMR 49,00.

Responses to promote safety may include, but not be limited to, creating a personal
safety plan; pre-determining seating arrangements for the target and/or the aggressor in
the classroom, at lunch, or on the bus; identifying a staff member who will act as a “safe
person” for the target; and altering the aggressor’s schedule and access to the target. The
principal or designee will take additional steps to promote safety during the course of
and after the investigation, as necessary.

The principal or designee will implement appropriate strategies for protecting from
bullying and/or retaliation a student who has reported bullying or retaliation, a student
who has witnessed bullying or retaliation, a student who provides information during an
investigation, or a student who has reliable information about a reported act of bullying
or retaliation. The confidentiality of students and witnesses reporting alleged acts of
bullying and/or retaliation will be maintained to the extent possible given the school’s
obligation to investigate the matter. All relevant District policies will be adhered to.
2. Obligations to Notify Others:

a, Notice to parents or guardians,
Upon the completion of the investigation, the principal or designee will promptly notify
the parents or guardians of the target and the aggressor of the investigative findings and
determinations, and of the procedures for responding to it.. Notice will be consistent
with state regulations at 603 CMR 49.00.

b, Notice to Another School or District.
If the reported incident involves students from more than one school, school district,
charter school, non-public school, approved private special education day or
residential school, or collaborative school, the principal or designee first informed of
the incident will promptly notify, by telephone, the principal or designee of the other
school(s) of the incident so that each school may take appropriate action. All
communications will be in accordance with state and federal privacy laws and
applicable regulations. 603 CMR 49.00.

¢. Notice to Law Enforcement,
At any point after receiving a report of bullying or retaliation, including after an
investigation, if the principal or designee has a reasonable basis to believe that
criminal charges may be pursued against the aggressor, the principal will notify the
local law enforcement agency. Notice will be consistent with the requirements of
603 CMR 49.00 and locally established agreements with the local law enforcement
agency. Also, if an incident occurs on school grounds and involves a former student
under the age of 21 who is no longer enrolled in school, the principal or designee
shail contact the local law enforcement agency if the principal has a reasonable basis
to believe that criminal charges may be pursued against the aggressor.

In making this determination, the principal will, consistent with the Plan and with
applicable school or District policies and procedures, consult with the school resource
officer, if any, and other individuals the principal or designee deems appropriate,

Cc. Investigation.
The principal or designee will investigate promptly all reports of bullying or
retaliation and, in doing so, will consider all available information known,
including the nature of the allegation(s) and the ages of the students involved.

During the investigation the principal or designee will, among other things, interview
the alleged target, the alleged aggressor, student and staff witnesses, , and others as
necessary. The principal or designee (or whoever is conducting the investigation)
will remind the alleged aggressor, target, and all witnesses that retaliation is strictly
prohibited and will result in disciplinary action.

Interviews may be conducted by the principal or designee, or other staff members as
determined by the principal or designee, and in consultation with the school
counselor, as appropriate. To the extent practicable, and given their obligation to
investigate and address the matter, the principal or designee will maintain
confidentiality during the investigative process. The principal or designee will
maintain a written record of the investigation, using the MPS Bullying Prevention and

Bullying Prevention aud Intervention Plan 13
Marblehead Public Schools
Intervention Bullying Incident Reporting Form to summarize the incident(s), steps
taken and result(s) of the investigation.

Procedures for investigating reports of bullying and retaliation will be consistent with
school and District policies and procedures for investigations. If necessary, the
principal or designee will consult with legal counsel about the investigation as
necessary.

is]

Determinations.

The principal or designee will make a determination based upon all of the facts and
circumstances and the preponderance of evidence obtained through the investigation
conducted. If, after investigation, bullying or retaliation is substantiated, the principal
or designee will take steps reasonably calculated to prevent recurrence and to ensure
that the target is not restricted in participating in school or in benefiting from school
activities. The principal or designee will: 1) determine what remedial action is
required, if any, and 2) determine what responsive actions and/or

disciplinary action is necessary.

Depending upon the circumstances, the principal or designee may choose te consult
with the students’ teacher(s) and/or school counselor, and the target’s or aggressor’s
parents or guardians to identify any underlying social or emotional issue(s) that may
have contributed to the bullying behavior and to assess the level of need for
additional social skills development.

The principal or designee will promptly notify the parents or guardians of the target
and the aggressor about the results of the investigation and, if bullying or retaliation
is found, what action is being taken to prevent further acts of bullying or retaliation.
All such notices must comply with applicable state and federal privacy laws and
regulations. Because of the legal requirements regarding the confidentiality of
student records, the principal or designee cannot report specific information to the
target’s parent or guardian about the disciplinary action taken against an identified
aggressor unless it involves a “stay away” order or other directive that the target
must be aware of in order to report violations.

The principal or designee shail inform the parent or guardian of the target about the
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education's Problem Resolution Systems
and the process for accessing that system, regardless of the outcome of the bullying
determination.

Responses to Bullying,

The Marblehead Public Schools has incorporated a range of individualized
strategies and interventions that may be used in response to remediate a student’s
skills and or to prevent further incidences of bullying and/or retaliation.

i

1. Teaching Appropriate Behavior Through Skills-building
Upon the principal’s or designee’s determining that a violation of the District's
bullying prevention policy has occurred, the law requires that the school or
district use a range of responses that balance the need for accountability with the
need to teach appropriate behavior (ref. M.G.L. c. 71, § 370(d)(v)). Some skill-

Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan 14

Marblehead Public Schools
building approaches that the principal or designee may consider include, but are
not limited to:

- offering individualized skill-building sessions based on the
school’s/district’s bullying prevention curricula;

- providing relevant educational activities for individual students or
groups of students, in consultation with guidance counselors and other
appropriate school personnel,

- implementing a range of academic and nonacademic positive behavioral
supports to help students understand pro-social ways to achieve their
goals;

- meeting with parents and guardians to engage parental support and to
reinforce the bullying prevention curricula and social skills building
activities at home.

- adopting behavioral plans to include a focus on developing specific social

skills.

2, Taking Disciplinary Action
If the principal or designee decides that disciplinary action is appropriate, the
disciplinary action will be determined on the basis of facts found by the
principal or designee, including the nature of the conduct, the age of the
student(s) involved, and the need to balance accountability with the teaching of
appropriate behavior. Discipline will be consistent with the Plan and with the
school’s or district’s code of conduct and due process will be afforded to the
identified aggressor in accordance with applicable statutes and regulations.
Disciplinary sanctions for students found to have engaged in bullying or
retaliation may include a long-term suspension from school for up to ninety (90)
school days and for identified staff perpetrators, termination of employment.

Discipline procectues for students with disabilities are governed by the federal
Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act (IDEA), which should
be read in cooperation with state laws regarding student discipline.

If the principal or designee determines that a student knowingly made a false
allegation of bullying or retaliation, that student may be subject to disciplinary

action,

3. Promoting Safety for the Target and Others
The principal or designee will consider what adjustments, if any, are needed in

the school environment to enhance the target's sense of safety and that of others
as well. An example of one strategy that the principal or designee may use is to
increase adult supervision at transition times and in locations where bullying is
known to have occurred or is likely to occur.

Within a reasonable period of time following the determination and the ordering
of remedial and/or disciplinary action, the principal or designee will contact the
target to determine whether there has been a recurrence of the prohibited conduct
and whether additional supportive measures are needed. If so, the principal or
designee will work with appropriate school staff to implement them immediately.
[ VI. COLLABORATION WITH FAMILIES |

The Marblehead Public Schools’ Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan includes strategies to
engage and collaborate with students’ families in order to increase the capacity of the school or
district to prevent and respond to bullying. Resources for families and communication with them
ate essential aspects of effective collaboration. The law requires that the District Plan include
provisions for informing parents or guardians about the bullying prevention and intervention
curricula used by the school district or school, These provistons include: (i) providing parents and
guardians information related to how they can reinforce the curricula at home and support the school
or District plan; Gi) the dynamics of bullying, and (iii) online safety and cyberbullying, Parents and
uardians will also be notified in writing each year about the student-related sections of Marblehead
ublic Schools’ Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan, in the language(s) most prevalent among
the parents or guardians. Marblehead Public Schools’ approach to collaboration is sensitive to, and
considers, factors such as age, climate, socio-economic factors, linguistic, and cultural make-up of

students and the parents.

A. Parent education and resources.
The Marblehead Public Schools will offer education programs for parents and guardians
that are focused on the parental components of the bullying prevention curricula and any
social competency curricula used by the district or school. The programs will be offered in
collaboration with the PTO, PTA, School Councils, Special Education Parent Advisory
Council (SEPAC), or similar organizations,

B. Notification requirements,

Each year Marblehead Public Schools will inform parents or guardians of enrolled students
about the bullying prevention curricula that are being used. This notice will include
information about the dynamics of bullying, including cyberbullying and online safety.
The District will send parents written notice each year about the student-related sections of
the Plan and the school's and the District's Internet Safety/Responsible Use policy. All
notices and information made available to parents or guardians will be in hard copy and
electronic formats and will be available in the language(s) most prevalent among parents
or guardians, The District will post the Plan and related information on its website.

| Vil. PROHIBITION AGAINST BULLYING AND RETALIATION

The Marblehead Public Schools strictly prohibits, and will not tolerate, any unlawful or
disruptive behavior, including any form of bullying, cyberbullying, or retaliation, in our school
buildings, on school grounds, or in school-related activities, MPS will investigate promptly all
reports and complaints of bullying, cyberbullying, and retaliation, and take prompt action to end
that behavior and restore the target’s sense of safety, We will support this commitment in all
aspects of our school community, including curricula, instructional programs, staff development,
extracurricular activities, and parent or guardian involvement.

The following statement is incorporated directly from M.G.L, c. 71, § 370(b), and describes the

law’s requirements for the prohibition of bullying.

Aets of bullying, which include cyberbullying, are prohibited:
~ on school grounds and property immediately adjacent to school grounds, at a school-
sponsored or school-related activity, function, or program whether on or off school
grounds, at a school bus stop, on a school bus or other vehicle owned, leased, or used by
a school district or school; or through the use of technology or an electronic device
owned, leased, or used by a school district or school, and

- ata location, activity, function, or program that is not school-related through the use of
technology or an electronic device that is not owned, leased, or used by a school district or
school, if the acts create a hostile environment at school for the target or witnesses, infringe on
their rights at school, or materially and substantially disrupt the education process or the
orderly operation of a school. As stated in M.G.L. c. 71, § 370, however, nothing in this Plan
requires the District or school to staff or supervise any non-school related activities, functions,

or programs.

Retaliation against a person who reports bullying, provides information during an
investigation of bullying, or witnesses or has reliable information about bullying is also

prohibited.

[ VIII, PROBLEM RESOLUTION SYSTEM

Chapter 86 of the Acts of 2014 amended Section 370 of chapter 71 of the General Laws to
include (g) (v): The Plan shall inform parents or guardians of the target about the Department's
problem resolution system and the process for seeking assistance or filing a claim through the
problem resolution system. This information will be made available in both hard copy and

electronic formats:

Any parent wishing to file a claim/concern or seeking assistance outside of the district may do
so with the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education Program Resolution System

(PRS). That information can be found at:_http:/vww.doe.mass.edu/pqa, emails can be sent to
compliance@doe.mass.edu or individuals may call 781-338-3700 or fax 781-338-3710, Hard

copies of this information are also available at the Superintendent’s office.

[ IX DEFINITIONS |

Aggressor: A student, school staff member, or other school-affiliated adult who engages
in bullying, cyberbullying, or retaliation.

Bullying: The repeated use by one or more students or by a member of a school staff including,
but not limited to, an educator, administrator, school nurse, cafeteria worker, custodian, bus
driver, athletic coach, advisor to an extracurricular activity or paraprofessional of a written,
verbal or electronic expression or a physical act or gesture or any combination thereof, directed
at a victim that: (i) causes physical or emotional harm to the target or damage to the target’s
property; (ii) places the target in reasonable fear of harm to himself or of damage to his
property; (iii) creates a hostile environment at school for the target; (iv) infringes on the rights
of the target at school; or (v) materially and substantially disrupts the education process or the

orderly operation of a school.

For the purposes of this section, bullying shall include cyber-bullying.

*The District recognizes that there may be situations in which two or more students engage
ina common scheme of behavior towards a target that does not meet the legal definition of
“bullying” but that negatively impacts the target and the learning environment. Notwithstanding
the fact that such conduct may not meet the statutory definition of “bullying,” (for example,
because each aggressor engages in the behavior only once) MPS recognizes that these situations
may carry the same impact as bullying and will respond to reports of such behavior the same way
it would respond to a determination bullying.

Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan 17
Marblehead Public Schools
Cyberbullying is bullying through the use of technology or electronic devices such as
telephones, cell phones, computers, and the internet, It includes, but is not limited fo, email,
instant messages, text messages, and internet postings. See M.G.L. c. 71, § 370 for the
legal definition of cyberbullying.

Hostile environment, as defined in M.G.L. c. 71, § 370, is a situation in which bullying causes
the school environment to be permeated with intimidation, ridicule, or insult that is sufficiently
severe or pervasive to alter the conditions of the target’s education.

Retaliation is any form of intimidation, reprisal, or harassment directed against an individual
who reports bullying, provides information during an investigation of bullying, or witnesses
or has reliable information about bullying.

Staff includes, but is not limited to, educators, administrators, counselors, school murses,
cafeteria workers, custodians, bus drivers, athletic coaches, advisors fo extracurricular
activities, support staff, or paraprofessionals,

Target is a student against whom bullying, cyberbullying, or retaliation has been perpetrated,

X RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS

Consistent with state and federal Jaws, and the policies of the Marblehead Public Schools,, no
person shall be discriminated against in admission to a public school of any town or in obtaining
the advantages, privilege and courses of study of such public school on account of race, color,
sex, religion, national origin, gender identity, sexual orientation, or disability. Nothing in the
Plan prevents the District or a district school from taking action to remediate discrimination or
harassment based on a person’s membership in a legally protected category under local, state, or
federal law, or school or District policies,

In addition, nothing in the Plan is designed or intended to limit the authority of the school or
district to take disciplinary action or other action under M.G.L. c. 71, §§ 37H, 37HL/2, 3783/4,
,M.G.L. c. 71, 88 41 and 42, M.G.L. ¢ 76, § 5, or other applicable laws, or local school or
district policies in response to violent, harmful, or disruptive behavior, regardless of whether the
Plan covers the behavior.

Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan
Marblehead Public Schools

18
Appendix A
MARBLEHEAD PUBLIC SCHOOLS
BULLYING PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION INCIDENT REPORTING FORM

Name of Reporter/Person Filling the Report

(Note: Reports may be made anonymously, but no disciplinary action will be taken against an
alleged aggressor solely on the basis of an anonymous report.)

Check whether you are the: Taiget of the behavior: (} Reporter (not the target): [1]

Chack whether you are a: [3 Student (Parent [DaAdministrator
(11 Staff Member (specify role) {"] Other (specify)

Contact information:

Phone Numbers):

if student, state your school: Grade

If staff member, state your school or work site:

Information about the Incident:

Name of Target (of behavior):

Name of Aggressor (person who engaged in the behavior)

Date(s) af Incident(s):

Time When Incident(s) Occurred:

Location of Incident(s) (Be as specific as possiblay

Witnesses (List people who saw the incident or have information about it):

Name: C] student [J] Stef LJ Other
Name: im) Oo Qo
Name: Oo 0 0
Name: ia oO a)

Describe the detalls of the Incident (Including names of people Involved, what occurred, and what each
person did and said, Including specific words used), Please use additional space on back if necessary,

(Describe or allach available documentation such as video, notes, emails, texts or other; altach additional pages as needed.)

FOR ADMINISTRATIVE USE ONLY

Signature of Person Filing this Report: Date;
(Note: Reports may be filed anonymously.)
Form Given to: Position: Date:

Signature: Mate Received:

Appendix B (cont.)
MARBLEHEAD PUBLIC SCHOOLS
BULLYING PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION INCIDENT REPORTING FORM

INVESTIGATION
Investigator(s): Positions(s):
INTERVIEWS
(Interviewed aggressor —_ Nate: Date:
CInterviewed target Name: Date:
LInterviewed witnesses Name: Date:
Name: Date:
Name: Date:
Any prior documented Incidents by the aggressor? (Yes []No
Ifyes, have incidents involved target or target group previously? CYes (JNo
Any previous incidents with findings of BULLYING, RETALIATION LYes CC] No

Summary of investigation: (Please use addilional paper and altach to this document if needed)

CONCLUSIONS FROM THE INVESTIGATION

4. Finding of bullying or retaliation:
Cyves [No

(] Bullying Cncident documented as

(1) Retaliation [Discipline referral only.
2, Contacts:

[(] Target's parent/guardian Date:, (Aggressor's parent/guardian Date: .

(C]Law Enforcement Date:
3. Action Taken:
(]Loss of Privileges []Detention [[]STEP referral [“] Suspension

(Community Service [] Education [] Other

4. Describe Safety Pianning:

Follow-up with Target: scheduled for Initial and date when completed:
Follow-up with Aggressor; scheduled for Initial and date when completed:
Report forwarded to Principal: Dale Report forwarded to Asst, Superintendent of Student Services
Date:

(if principal was not the investigator)

Signature and Title: Date:
MEMORANDUM

TO: Schoo! Committee
John Robidoux, Interim Superintendent

FROM: Kristin Morello, Assistant Business Manager
DATE:
RE: Vote to Accept Donation

We are requesting a vote to accept the following donation to the ‘AMD DION
(enter schoo! or department) Donation Fund.

§, Cash donation in the amount of $ ROOD) from »Malung Grdxveet for
pankesr cdacadio

vi
