DATE POSTED:

Town Clerk Use Only
an

;

yaaa UP td

MEETING NOTICE

POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL SOA § 20 Act relative to extending certain COVID-19 measures
adopted during the state of emergency

Marblehead School Committee

Namne of Board or Committee

HYBRID MEETING
Address: Marblehead High School Library 2 Humphrey Street Marblehead MA 01945

OR

Zoom Conference: https://marbleheadschools-
org.zoom us/j/978867628 1 7?pwd=ShT6kswajlCtb}VaC2uYOnI pdiv7{E. |

Meeting ID: 978 8676 2817
Password: 610612
Dial in Phone +1 646 931 3860 US

Thursday October 30 2025 6:00PM

IL.

IIL.

IV.

Day of Week Month Date Year Time

Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

Initial Business: Call to Order
. Pledge of Allegiance
. Commendations
c. Public Comment
d. Student Representative

oes

District Updates — Supt. John Robidoux
a. Superintendent Update
b. District Financial Report
c. MCAS Analysis Presentation

Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills (vote)
b, Meeting Minutes: (10/15/2025) (vote)
c. Approval of Policy Updates (vote)

CA: Administration Goals

CB: School Superintendent

CBI: Evaluation of the Superintendent

CCB: Line and Staff Relations

CHCA: Approval of Handbooks and Directives

School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
Third Reading, IHAI-A: Middle School Pathway Exploration
Sandbox Donation (vote)
Making Ends Meet Foundation Donation (vote)
Draft of Meeting Minutes
Open Meeting Violation Complaint Response (vote)
Sub Committee & Liaison Updates

Facilities Sub Committee Chair (vote)
g. Approval of Policy Revisions (vote)
CHCA-E: Approval of Handbooks and Directives -- RESCIND
CL: Administrative Reports -- RESCIND
DJ: Purchasing -- REVISION
DJA: Purchasing Authority -- REVISION
DJE; Procurement Requirements -- REVISION
JEB: Entrance Age ~ REVISION

mo noose

V. Closing Business

a. New Business
b. Correspondence
i. Food Pantry

VI. Motion and vote to meet in executive session for the following reasons:

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3), “Purpose 3”, to discuss litigation, Marblehead
School Committee and Marblehead Teachers Association, MUP-25-11555, as an open meeting may have a

detrimental effect on the litigating position of the School Committee and the Chair so declares without
intent to return to open session,

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(2), Purpose (2) to conduct collective bargaining !
session with Marblehead Education Association, specifically to hear a Step Three grievance regarding the
Lead Teacher Stipend, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the

School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return to open session.

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 2 1(a)(3), Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to
collective bargaining, specifically to deliberate tegarding a response to the Step Three grievance regarding
the Lead Teacher Stipend, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
Schoo! Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return to open session.

Chair's Statement following roll call vote on the motion:

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3), “Purpose 3”, to discuss litigation, Marblehead
School Committee and Marblehead Teachers Association, MUP-25-1 1555, as an open meeting may have a
detrimental effect on the litigating position of the School Committee and the Chair so declares without
intent to return to open session.

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 2 1(a)(2), Purpose (2) to conduct collective bargaining
session with Marblehead Education Association, specifically to hear a Step Three grievance regarding the
Lead Teacher Stipend, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return to open session.

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3), Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to
collective bargaining, specifically to deliberate regarding a response to the Step Three grievance regarding
the Lead Teacher Stipend, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return to open session.
VI. Executive Session

Adjournment

Hybrid Meeting Notice: Members o
Marbichead MA 01945 or by the re
will not be suspended or terminate

f the public are welcome to attend this in-person at 2 Humphrey Street
Mote Zoom connection provided. Please note that the in-person meeting
d if technological problems interrupt the remote connection.

THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Chairperson: Al Williams
Posted by: Al Williams
Date: 10/28/25
Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-3140

John Robidoux Julia Ferreira LisaMarie Ippolito Michael Pfifferling
Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of — Assistant Superintendent of Assistant Superintendent of
Teaching & Learning Student Services Finance & Operations
MEMORANDUM

TO: Marblehead School Committee

FROM: Michael Pfifferling, Assistant Superintendent for Finance & Operations

DATE: September 25, 2025

RE: District Financial Report FY26

We have just completed the second payroll period for our 10-month staff.

All full-time annual salaries have been encumbered through a manual process. We have not
encumbered the following General Fund salaries:
¢ Lead Teacher Stipends
¢ Custodial Overtime
¢ Unemployment Costs
* Contractual Lane Changes
« §6Athletic Salaries
o Bus Drivers
o Medical Salaries
o Custodial Salaries
o Police Duty
e Lunch / Recess Salaries
403B Match

Special Education Out of District expenditures are currently $688K over budget (including
encumbrances), this is due to all tuition currently being charged to General Fund. We will be moving
approximately $1.7M in Out of District tuition from the General Fund to the Circuit Breaker Fund.

As a point of reference, we prepaid approximately $1M in FY25 funds towards FY26 tuition.

We will continue to monitor all budget lines monthly to identify positive or negative trends, but

especially:
* Salary Lines

¢ Special Education Out of District Tuition and Transportation
® Utilities

¢ Legal Services

Attached is the line-by-line report for FY25 expenditures vs budget.

Respectfully submitted,

BS ER
Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-3140

John Robidoux Julia Ferreira LisaMarie Ippolito Michael Pfifferling
Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of — Assistant Superintendent of Assistant Superintendent of
Teaching & Learning Student Services Finance & Operations
MEMORANDUM

TO: Marbiehead School Committee

FROM: Michael Pfifferling, Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations

DATE: October 27, 2025

RE: Schedule of Bills for Approval

Included in this packet are the following Schedules of Bills for your consideration. The schedules and
invoices have been uploaded to the shared drive.

Schedule Amount
A26-14 — FS — CF $197,408.07
A26-14 — DW ~ MSR $78,577.00
A26-15 ~ DW — MSR $139,206.81
A26-15 — FAC ~LM $10,295.59
A-26-15 — METCO-LM $34,813.00
A-26-15 ~ SS—KG $135,376.49
A26-16 ~ DW-— MSR $463,397.36
A26-16 — FAC—LM $37,098.36
A26-16 ~ SS— KG $142,610.73

Total $1,238,783.41

Suggested Motion:
Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling 81,238, 783.41
DRAFT MINUTES

Marblehead School Committee

Chair: Al Williams

Meeting Date, Time & Location: Thursday, October 15th, 2025, 6prn, MHS Library, 2 Humphrey Street
Marblehead MA 01945

SC Members Present: M. Clucas, J. Schaeffner, K. Schmeckpeper, A. Williams

SC Members Absent: H. Gwazda

Agenda: Link

Materials: Link

Meeting Recording: Link

Minutes Respectfully Submitted By: Henry Gwazda

Call to Order
e A. Williams called the meeting to order at (time)

Public Comment
e No public comment

Student Representative.
1. Athletic teams maintained winning records as fall season neared completion:
a. Football 5-0, volleyball 11-2, golf 11-2, field hockey 7-5-2
b. Boys soccer 8-3, girls soccer 9-1-2
c. Girls cross country undefeated at 7-0, boys cross country 4-3
2. Recent activities and upcoming events:
a. Mass General Hospital and MHS Risk Youth Assessment Surveys completed
successfully
b. Winter sports and Powderpuff registration opened; Powderpuff game vs. Swampscott
scheduled November 22
¢. October 22: sophomores/juniors take PSAT, freshmen participate in service day, seniors
visit colleges
d. National Honor Society began online tutoring services for core classes and electives
e. Rock the Arts night November 6 at Arts Association Cooper Mansion to fund MHS arts
programs
f. Performing arts department took field trip to Boston Symphony Hall and Boston
Conservatory
Superintendent Update

1.

Superintendent addressed hate in schools, emphasizing zero tolerance and calling for
collaborative efforts from students, staff, and parents to report and address discrimination
immediately
Committee meetings scheduled:
o Health and wellness committee meeting October 23rd for required three-year wellness
policy review
o Anti-discrimination committee meeting next day to discuss administrator presentation and
recent hate messages
o Principals to present MCAS results at next school committee meeting in new individual
format
Town-wide survey partnership with Board of Health and UMass promoted for residents 18+
through mid-November to inform community support services

Consent Action and Agenda Items

Audio cut out for this section, so | could not transcribe the minutes.

School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

1.

Policy BEDH (Public Comment at School Committee Meetings)
Motion by K. Schmeckpeper, seconded by A. Williams to approve revisions removing
obscenities as basis for terminating public comment per MASC recommendation. Motion
passed 3-0, with votes in favor: K. Schmeckpeper, M. Clucas, A. Williams.
Policy BEH (Use of Electronic Messaging by School Committee Members)
Motion by Kate Schmeckpeper, seconded by A. Williams to approve updates modernizing policy
to reflect district email archiving system. Motion passed 3-0, with votes in favor: K.
Schmeckpeper, M. Clucas, A. Williams.
Policy BID (School Committee Member Compensation and Expenses) and Policy BK Rescission:
Motion by Kate Schmeckpeper, seconded by A. Williams to approve BID revisions removing
inapplicable compensation language and prohibiting committee member employment by district.
Motion passed 3-0, with votes in favor: K. Schmeckpeper, M. Clucas, A. Williams.
Motion by Kate Schmeckpeper seconded by M. Clucas to rescind policy BK (School Committee
Memberships) as unnecessary per MASC recommendation. Motion passed 4- 0, with votes in
favor: Kate Schmeckpeper, A. Williams, M. Clucas, J. Schaeffner.
Second reading of middie school pathway exploration policy outlining vocational school
information sharing requirements and Essex Tech partnership completed.
Domestic Violence Proclamation

a. Proclamation not submitted to chair in time for meeting folder inclusion

b. Committee previously discussed domestic violence awareness in April but decided not to

proceed with October proclamation at that time
c. Local citizen had requested October domestic violence proclamation
Proclamation for Domestic Violence Awareness Month October 2025 read aloud
i. Key statistics: 1 in 3 women and 1 in 10 men experience domestic violence in
lifetime
ii, | Recognized organizations: HAWC, National Sexual Violence Resource Center,
YMCA crisis centers
iii, Marblehead Public Schools affirmed commitment to supporting survivors
Typographical errors noted in presented version; corrected version to be prepared for
signing
Motion made by J. Schaeffner to approve proclamation. Motion seconded by A. Williams
and passed 4-0, with votes in favor: M. Clucas, K. Schmeckpeper, A. Williams, J.
Schaeffner

7. Superintendent Progress Versus Goals and Evaluation Process

a.

b.

Evaluation Process and Timeline

i. Chair noted progress report uploaded day before meeting (goals had 48-hour
notice)

ii, Committee agreed to proceed without full two-day notice requirement

iii, | Committee members will complete individual assessment forms by next meeting

iv. Special meeting scheduled between October 30th-November 6th for composite
evaluation

v. Final evaluation presented and voted at regular business meeting

Progress on Three Superintendent Goals

i. Professional Practice Goal (moderate progress): Acknowledged goal too broad:
ongoing staffing discussions with assistant superintendents on special education,
ELL, and general education; surface-level PTO/PCO discussions occurred; no
surveys generated due to survey fatigue concerns

ii. District Improvement Goal: Strategic plan developed with six areas
(curriculum/instruction, teacher quality, HR management, student support,
leadership/governance, financial management); input from administration and
principals; draft to committee by January for 2026-27 implementation

ii, Student Learning Goal (significant progress): All principals incorporated
grade-appropriate student voice initiatives; administrative learning walks
confirmed successful implementation across buildings

8. School Committee Goals Discussion

a.

c

The committee had further discussions on the School Committee goals and whether they
were appropriately aligned with the committee’s purview.

It was also suggested that the committee's goals should align with the district and
superintendent goals, and possibly developing the committee goals in conjunction with
the district goals.

The committee agreed to work on the goals in a workshop setting.

9. Subcommittee Chair Appointments

a. Chair explained policy BD requires subcommittee chair appointments by committee chair
subject to committee approval
i. Most subcommittees had not yet met to discuss chair appointments
ii, | Chair preferred subcommittee members recommend chairs rather than unilateral
appointments
ii, | Committee member noted discussing appointments outside open meeting would
violate open meeting law
b. H. Gwazda had previously expressed interest in chairing communications subcommittee
c. Motions and votes:
i. A motion was made by A. Williams and seconded by K. Schmeckpeper to appoint
J. Schaeffner as chair of the budget subcommittee. The motion passed 4-0, with
votes in favor: A. Williams, K. Schmeckpeper, J. Schaeffner, M. Clucas
ii. | Amotion was made by A. Williams and seconded by J. Schaeffner to appoint K.
Schmeckpeper as chair of the policy subcommittee. The motion passed 4-0, with
votes in favor: A. Williams, K. Schmeckpeper, J. Schaeffner, M. Clucas
iii. | A motion was made by A. Williams and seconded by K. Schmeckpeper to appoint
H. Gwazda as chair of the communications subcommittee. The motion passed
4-0, with votes in favor: A. Williams, K. Schmeckpeper, J. Schaeffner, M. Clucas
iv. Committee agreed to confirm Gwazda’s willingness to serve and address at
October 30th meeting if he declines

New Business
1, Planning Board Update and Field Lighting Discussion
a. Planning board approved field lighting at Piper Field for up to 80 nights per school year
with PA system use 12 times annually; matter proceeds to Zoning Board of Appeals
requiring legal counsel and school committee vote on application
b. J. Schaeffner mentioned that neighbors expressed concerns, including student parking
blocking driveways, litter, inappropriate language from adult leagues, and general
disruption
c. Superintendent met with neighbors to address concerns and discussed preventing
outside containers at games
i. Police consulted on game management and parking enforcement
ii, Behavioral expectations needed for all groups using facility
d. K. Schmeckpeper designated to represent school committee at zoning board meetings;
planning board requires usage data and community relations update in one year
2. Open Meeting Law Complaint
a. J. Schaeffner asked if the OML complaint was filed
b. A. Williams questioned whether the chair was the right person to submit the complaint.
c. J. Schaeffner offered to file the complaint.

Adjournment

e J. Schaeffner made a motion, with K. Schmeckpeper seconding, to enter executive session
without intent to return to open meeting at time. The motion passed 4-0.

ADMINISTRATION GOALS

ifhe School Committee intends to,employ qualified personne! to administer the school district, efficiently - (etetea: It is the intent of t

and to require the Superintendent to organize the administration in a manner that will make clear the (detetedt: that the District

functions of each position and the relationships among them,
(Deleted: system

‘The Superintendent will establish clear tines of communication, both verticatly and horizontally, and will \ CBormatied: Font: Not Botd, Font color: Auto

form any staff councils or committees needed to provide for efficient conduct of school business. In order \\CRormatted: Font color: Auto

fo engage in this process in an orderly and effective fashion, each individual and group will be given “(Formatted Font color Aut
particular, clear-cut responsibilities. The Superintendent will establish channels so that_ the ormmatted: Pont color: Auto

tecommendations and decisions of cach group can be heard and reviewed by the chicf administrative - (deleted: c

officer concerned, and, where appropriate, by the Superintendent and School Committee. ‘ (Deleted: will be established

‘ a Qf
The organization and administration of the schools will balance responsibility with commensurate (Formatted: Font color: Ato

LAAAAAAAAS

authority, subject to the reserved legal powers of the School Committee, This means thal a staff mem- ber,
when assigned a responsibility or a position, will be given the authority to make the decisions necessary
to perform the assigned tasks.

For the schools to operate effectively, each administrative officer will be responsible and accountable for

making a plan of development for all staff assigned to heir area of operation, henna (Deleted: his‘her
(Formatted: Font color: Auto
LEGAL REFS. M.G.L. 71:41, 71:42 (Formatted: Font color: Auto

LKASY

SOURCE: MASC/Marbichead

Marblehead Public Schoots — Approved 10/18/18; updated XXIXX/2S
File: CB
SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENT
The Committee shall employ a Superintendent of Schools and fix sheig compensation, The Superintendent

shall act in accordance with Mass. General Laws and shall perform such other duties consistent with this
section as the Committee may determine. They, shall also prepare such reports as may be required by the

Department, of Elementary and Secondary Education and shall submit materials for the Committee’s

Ceteted: histher

(Formatted: Font color. Auto

~err( Deleted: Hesshe

annual report to the Select Board in sufficient time for printing in the annual report,

SOURCE: MASC Updated 2022,
LEGAL REFS: M.G.L. 71:59, 22:3

Marbichead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; undated NX/XX/25,

“a.” (Formatted: Font color: Auto

(Deteted: State

(Deteted: t.

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

(Deteted: (Mayar}

(Deleted: men

(Formatted: Font cotor: Auto

(Deleted: July 2016

(Formatted: Font cotor: Auto

‘Formatted: Right: 0.25"

DIAAAAAAARAABM

File: CBI
EVALUATION OF THE SUPERINTENDENT
Evaluation can serve the purpose of helping educators and educational leaders continually improve their
practice,
Through evaluation of the Superintendent, the School Committee will strive to accomplish the following:

1. Ensure the efforts of the Superintendent are focused on district goals and the standards of
professional practice established by state regulation are met by the Superintendent.

2. Ensure all Committee members and the Superintendent are in agreement and clear on the role
[ of the Superintendent and the immediate priorities among gheir, responsibilities,

3. Provide excellence in administrative leadership of the school district,

4, Develop a respectful and productive working relationship between the School Committee
and Superintendent.

The Schoo! Committee and Superintendent will periodically develop a set of goals based on the needs of
the school district and in keeping with state regulations for evaluation of the Superintendent. The
| Superintendent's performance will be reviewed in accordance with specified goals and standards,

according to the evaluation cycle agreed upon with the Superintendent.

All School Committee discussion and deliberation related to the Superintendent’s performance evaluation
| shall be conducted in open session in accordance with the Qpen Meeting Law.

| SOURCE: MASC ; Updated 2022 _
LEGAL REFS: M.G.L, 30A:18-25

603 CMR 35.00

Marblehead Publie Schools — Appraved 10/18/18; updated XX/XX/25

C_deteted: histher

* (Forinatted: Font color: Auto

LAY

-+- (Deleted: performance abjectives

(Formatted: Font cotor: Auto

a “(Deteted: . Additional objectives witl be established

LAAT

-(Deleted: 0

(Deteted: m

. (Deteted:t

\ (Formatted: Font cofor: Auto

\\Cormatied: Font color, Auto

“S, (Farmatted: Font color: Auto

\Qeteted: fuly 2016

‘CFormatted: Font color: Auto

VAAAAAAAS

File: CCB
PIAFF RELATIONS

The School Committee expects the Superintendent to establish clear understandings on the part of all
personnel of the working relationships in the school district, _ . _
Personnel will be expected (o refer matters requiring administrative action to the administrator to whom
they are responsible, The administrator will refer such matters to the next higher administrative authority
when necessary.

It is expected that the established lines of authority will serve most purposes, but all personnel will have

the right to appeal any decision made by an administrative officer through established grievance
procedures.

Additionally, lines of authority do not restrict in any way the cooperative, sensible working together of all
staff members at al levels in order to develop the best possible school programs and services. The
established lines of authority represent direction of authority and responsibility; when the staff is working
together, the tines represent avenues for a two-way flow of ideas to improve the program and operations

of the school district _ es enna

SOURCE : Marblehead/MASC,- Updated 2022

(Deleted: LINE AND

(BDetetea: system

(Rormatted: Font color: Auto

LAY

(Deleted: B

(Eormatted: Font color: Auto

Ned

— -Beteted: system

(Formatted: Font coor: Auto

LAW

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; undated XX/XX/25

File: CHCA

APPROVAL OF HANDBOOKS AND DIRECTIVES

The Principal, in consultation with the school council, shall prepare and distribute (o each student a hand-

book setting forth the rules pertaining to conduct of students. The school council shall review (he handbook
each spring to consider changes in the disciplinary policy to take effect at the beginning of the next school

Itis essential that the contents of all handbooks conform to School Committee policies, It is also important
that ali handbooks bearing the name of the school system or one of its schools be of a quality that reflects
credit on the school department, Therefore, the Committee expects handbooks requiring approval to be
approved prior to publication by the Committee and/or the Superintendent.

Committee approval will be necessary for any handbooks that pertain to required standards of conduct for
employees or students so that their contents may be accorded the status of Commiltee-approved pol- icy
or regulation. The Superintendent will use his/her judgment as to whether other specific handbooks need
Committee approval; however, all handbooks published will be made available to the Committee for
informational purposes.

SOURCE; Marblehead/MASC — Updated 2022,
‘TEGAL REFS.: M.G.L. 71:37H
CROSS REF.: BGD, School Committee Review of Procedure:

Deleted: law directs that in cach schoo] building containing
the grades nine to twelve, inclusive, the

--(Formatied: Font color: Auto

~-~—--~ (Deleted: in September.

LAA

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Font color: Aulo

~--—-(Formatted: Font color: Auto

Mavbichead Public Schaals — Approved 10/18/18; undated XN/XN/ZS

<r (Fermatted: Font colar: Auto

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

---~(Deleted: SOURCE: Marbleliesd

LAKAAAAAMA

is
io

PURCHASING

Atshall be the responsibility of the Superintendent,

2_Jo procure materials, supplies, equipment, and services at the lowes! possible cost consistent with
the quality necessary for the proper operation of the District, thereby attaining the maximum value

CRormatted: Font: Not Bold, Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Font: Not Bold, Font cofor: Auto

“Formatted: Font: Not Bold, Font color: Auto

foreach public dollar spent;

@__.To maintain the District's reputation for fairness and integrity and to promote impartial and equal
treatment to all who wish to conduct business within the District;

ra en - a
@ fo encourage a mutually cooperative relationship with requesting departments, recognizing that _
successful purchasing is a result of team planning and effort;

® To promote social and economic woals such as encouraging local, small, minority, and women-<.

owned businesses to participate in bidding for District purchases,

\

The acquisition of materiats, equipment and services will be centralized in the Superintendent’s office
of the school system.

The Superintendent will designate the District’s purchasing agent, The agent, will develop and administer
the purchasing program for the schools in keeping with legal requirements and with the adopted school ',
budget.

a

School purchases will be made only on official purchase orders approved for issuance by the appropriate
unit head and signed by the Superintendent_or designee, with such exceptions as may be made by the
latter for emergency purchases.

LEGAL REFS.:  M.G.L. 30B; 71:49A,

SOURCE: MASC Updated 2023,

Marblehead Publte Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated XX/XN/25

(Formatted: Font: Not Bold, Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Font: Not Bold, Font colar: Auto

* (Formatted: Font: Not Bold, Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Font: Not Batd, Fant color: Auto

° (Formatted: Font: Not Bold, Font color: Auto

(CFormaticd: Font: Not Bold, Font color: Auto

* (Formatted: Font Not Boll, Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Font: Not Bold, Font color: Auto

“(Formatted: Font: Not Bold, Font color: Auto

Style: Bullet + Aligned at: 0.25” + [ndent at: 0.5"

(Eeymatet Outline numbered + Level: {+ Numbering

purchase compelitively without prejudice and to seck

Deleted: The Schoal Committee declares its intention to

maximum educational value for every dollar expended.

Formatted: Font color: Aute

CBeteted: serve os

§ (Deleted: He/she

Formatted; Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

(Retetod: 7:22A; 7:28;

~(CMeteted: Marblehead

(Formatted: Font cater: Auto

ALAA AAA AAA renter A A MAAMRAAAMAAS

File: DIA
PURCHASING AUTHORITY

Authority for the purchase of materials, equipment, supplies, and services is extended to the
Superintendent through gost-center appropriation, as part of the District budget process.

‘(Detetea: the detailed listing of such items compited

, 4 . vane wan . . Deleted: -makin;

The purchase of items and services jvithin the cost-cenler appropriation, requires no further Committee 8 (» 5

approval except when by law or Committee policy, __ an \ CBormatte: Font color: Auto
\(Formatted: Font color: Auto

(CDoleted: on such lists

“‘Cormatted: Font color: Auto

Contracts may be entered into for a period of up to three years, Contracts of longer duration may only
be entered into by vote of a duly called town meeting.

(Deleted: the purchases or services must be pot to bid

LEGAL REF.: M.G.L. 30B _ Rormatted: Font cotor: Auto

CROSS REF.: DJE, Bidding Requirements (Pormatted: Fon color Auto

CSCC CES

SOURCE: Marblehead/MASC 2023

Marblehead Public Schools ~ Approved 10/18/18; updated XX/XN/25
fest

ile: DJE

PROCUREMENT REQUIREMENTS

All purchases of materials and equipment and all contracts for construction or maintenance will conform
to the requirements of law. Any contract between the District and a vendor is subject to procurement

~ (Formatted: Font: Not Bold, Font color: Auta

requirements, whether the District or another entity completes the purchase.

fo foster greater cificiency, the District will enter into state and local intergovernmental agreements
where appropriate for procurement or use of common or shared services.

For any supply or service over $100,000, bids will be advertised appropriately. Suppliers will be invited
to have their names placed on distribution lists to receive invitations to bid. When specifications are
prepared, they will be distributed to alt merchants and firms who have indicated an interest in bidding.

All bids will be submitted in sealed envelopes, addressed to the Superintendent and plainly marked with
the name of the bid and the time of the bid opening, Bids will be opened in public at the lime specified,
and all bidders will be invited to be present.

Any bid may be withdrawn prior to the scheduled time for the opening of the bids, Any bid received

~ >= (Rormatted: Font: Not Bold, Foat color: Auto

~- (Formatted: Font: Not Bold, Font color: Auto
~~~ (Formatted: Font: Not Bold, Font color: Auto

_- + (Deleted: When bidding procedures are used
(Formatted: Font color: Auto

LAY UU or

Deleted; The Committee reserves the right to reject any or

after the time and date specified will not be considered. All bids will remain firm for a period of 30 days
after opening.

‘The contract will be awarded to the responsive and responsible bidder offering the lowest price for the_

aff bids and to accept the bid that appears to be in the best
interest of the schuot system. The Committee reserves the
rigltt to waive any informality in, or reject, any or all bids
or any part of any bid.

eh

supplies/services specified in the Invitation to Bid, The bidder to whom an award is made may be
required (o enter into a written contract with the school district

Lhe Chief Purchasing Officer, may, if it would best serve district interest, use a Request for Proposals,
instead of the above process,

A procurement fora supply or service in the amount of $10,000 or greater but not more (han $100,000
shall be awarded to the responsible party offering the needed quantity or supply among three written
quotations sought and retained by the procurement officer,

~~~ (Rormatted: Fant calor: Auto
_ oo (Dateted: system
(Formatted: Font color: Auto

5.7 Formatted: Font color: Auto
_ (Formatted:
. Cormatied: Font color: Aute

‘ont color: Aula

\\ (Rormatted: Font color: Auto

A procurement in the amount of $10,000 or less shall be obtained through the exercise of sound business

practices.

SOURCE: — MASC Updated 2023

\ Cformaited: Font cotor: Auto
(Formatted: Font color: Auto
.Rormatted: Font color: Auto
WS, CRarmatted: Font cotor: Auto
AA CRormatied: Font cotor: Auto

LEGAL REF.: M.G.L. 7:22A; 7:22B; 30:39M 30B

CROSS REF.: DJA, Purchasing Authority

Marblehead Public Schools ~ Approved 10/18/18; updated XN/XX/25

‘ont color; Auto

3, Formate
i Rormatted: Font color: Auto
| (Bormatted: Font color: Auto
\ (Reteted: August 2016

| CRormatied: Font color Auto

* (Formatted: Font color. Auto
‘CRormatted: Right: 0.25"

ENTRANCE AGE
In an attempt to permit children to enter school at the time most appropriate for them individually, the
Schooi Committee establishes the following policy on entrance age:

1. Children who will be five years of age prior September [sof the school year during which
they wish to enroll will be eligible to enter kindergarten for that school year.

The admission of children whose birthdays fall after September Istwill be solely at the

discretion of schoo! administration.

2. Initial admission of children to the first grade (or other grades) will involve a consideration
of both chronological age and the readiness of the children to do the work of those grades,

LEGAL REFS.: M.G.L, 15:1G
603 CMR 8.00

Marhichead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated XX/XX/2S

(C__Deteteds to the first day

(CRormatted: Font color: Auto

(CT Deleted the first day of school

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

LAY LAY

Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-3140

John Robidoux Julia Ferreira LisaMarie Ippolito Michael Pfifferling
Superintendent of Schools Asst. Superintendent of Asst, Superintendent of Asst. Superintendent of
Teaching & Learning Student Services Finance & Operations
MEMORANDUM
TO: School Committee

John Robidoux, Superintendent of Schools

FROM: Kristin Morello, Assistant Business Manager
DATE: 10/8/2025
RE: Vote to Accept Donation

We are requesting a vote to accept the following donation to the Marblehead Public Schools
METCO Donation Fund.

1. Cash donation in the amount of $500.00 from Making Ends Meet Foundation, INC.

This donation was provided as a gift to supply snacks for the students and faculty associated
with the METCO program.
Dear Marblehead Families,

SNAP benefits (formerly known as food stamps) may not be distributed in November due to the
federal shutdown. While it's uncertain whether the shutdown will continue, this could create a
sudden gap for families who rely on SNAP for food.

Local food pantries are aware and preparing, but resources are limited—especially with
Thanksgiving approaching. These community resources may be helpful whether or not the
shutdown affects November benefits.

If you are able to help:
There are many ways to get involved through the local organizations listed below. The best way

to provide immediate support is by donating to the Marblehead Food Pantry and sharing this
information in your community.

The Marblehead Food Pantry serves more than 100 registered families and expects this number
to grow in the coming weeks. Community support can make a real difference.

To learn more about how to donate food or money, click this link:
https://marbleheadfoodpantry.or nations

Marblehead is a caring community. By working together, we can ensure that every
family has access to what they need during this uncertain time.

If you need support, here are available resources in the community:

Marblehead Food Pantry

marbleheadfoodpantry.org

Hours: Tuesdays 9 am-12 pm, Thursdays 5 pm—7 pm

Location: Star of the Sea Parish Center, 80 Atlantic Avenue, Marblehead
Other information:

Open to Marblehead residents with photo ID and proof of residency (e.g., a bill)

No income verification or detailed questions required

Marblehead residents may visit once per week

Salem Mobile Pantry visit: November 4, 9 am-11 am

Thanksgiving distribution: November 22, 9 am--12 pm for registered clients of the
Marblehead Food Pantry. The deadline to sign up for Thanksgiving is October 30th.
Registration is in person during distribution hours.

Salem Pantry (The Market)

thesalempantry.org/the-market

Hours: Open five days a week; families may visit once per week. See specific hours here:
https://thesalempantry.org/events/category/fall-hours/

Location: 47 Leavitt Street, Salem

Other information: Families can preregister online, or at first visit

Marblehead Little Free Pantry

littlefreepantrymhd.weebly.com

Hours: Open-access pantry available anytime

Location: Marblehead Community Charter Public School, 17 Lime Street, Marblehead
Other information: Shelf-stable items available anytime, no registration needed.

Family Table (Temple Sinai)
templesinaiweb.org/social-action/food-pantry

Hours: Varies; food pantry and delivery program
Location: Marblehead (Temple Sinai)

Other information: Program serves local families; learn how to become a client through this
website:

Additional Community Supports

Making Ends Meet

https://Awww.makingendsmeetmhead.ora/
Provides emergency financial assistance and material support

Marblehead Female Humane Society
https://marbleheadfemalehumanesociety.com/referrals/
Provides emergency financial assistance and material support

The Marblehead Counseling Center
They can help connect you with community support organizations.
You can call them at 781-631-8273

Local faith-based organizations may also be able to provide emergency support.

Need help navigating resources?
Please contact your child’s school counselor for guidance.

| October, 28", 2025

BROWN SCHOOOL
PRE K SANDBOX

Prepared for: SUMMARY
Marblehead School Committee This proposal is for the Brown School Pre K playground and a donation for a |
Al Williams - Chairperson sandbox instillation. The donation is being gifted to the Brown School by

one James J. Welch & Co., Inc, 27 Congress St Salem MA. The preschool teachers
Williams.al@marbleheadschools.org
lead by Mrs. Connolly, Brown School Principal Mary Maxfield and Director of
Facilities Todd Bloodgood are all aware and in support of this donation and

build for the children.

PROBLEM STATEMENT

The playground at Brown school for the pre k students does not have a
sandbox for the children to play, learn, and enjoy. Children thrive when all
their senses are activated through play, and many children enjoy play
through building, moving, and interacting with their peers.

SOLUTION

Through the generous donation of James J. Welch & Co., Inc to pay, build,

and complete this project the children will be given the opportunity to not
only learn, but play, develop social skills, and allowing all children of different

sensory needs to enjoy their open play outside.

TIMELINE & SIZE

Prepared by: The timeline for instillation would be: 1-2 weeks,
Ideally starting 11/10 as the children have no school:
11/10, 11/14, and a half day 12/12.

Cara Bednar — Room Parent

Cara. bednar@gmall.com The size of this sandbox would be: 12 feet by 8 feet with covering.
781-424-3760 All materials used would be supplied by James J. Welch & Co., In.
32 Bayview Rd

Marblehead, MA 01945

FINANCIAL SUMMARY

James J. Weich & Co.,Inc. has offered to cover the entire cost of the sandbox
buiid, instillation and completion of the project. The estimated cost of this
project total is: $5,000. This would include the labor, materials, sand and

cover.

