MINUTES
Marblehead School Committee Policy Subcommittee Meeting
September 30, 2025 at 8:30 AM via Zoom
Members Present: J. Schaeffner, K. Schmeckpeper

The meeting was called to order at 8:30 am.

Ms. Schaeffner made a motion to approve the minutes of the subcommittee’s August 28, 2025
meeting. Ms. Schmeckpeper seconded the motion. The motion passed 2-0.

Ms. Schaeffener made a motion to open the meeting to public comment as it was not included
on the agenda. Ms. Schmeckpeper seconded the motion. The motion passed 2-0. There was no
public comment, and the public comment period was closed.



                                                  T
The subcommittee discussed a plan for review of policy AC: Non-Discrimination Policy Including
Harassment and Retaliation. Members proposed having the existing Marblehead policy and the
MASC recommended policy reviewed by the superintendent and legal counsel for a
recommendation on whether the district should modify the existing policy.




        R
The subcommittee discussed IHAI-A: Middle School Pathway Exploration. The policy was
proposed by the administration to satisfy a DESE requirement. Ms Schaeffner made a motion to




         AF
approve draft policy IHAI-A: Middle School Pathway Exploration for recommendation to the
school committee to approve. Ms. Schmeckpeper seconded the motion. The motion passed 2-0.

The subcommittee discussed MASC’s recommended changes to policies (a) BA: School
Committee Operational Goals; (b) BBAA: School Committee Member Authority; (c)
BBBA/BBBB: School Committee Member Qualifications/Oath of Office; (d) BBBC: School
Committee Member Resignation; (e) BBBE: Unexpired Term Fulfillment; (f) BEDH: Public
Comment at School Committee Meetings; (g) BG: School Committee Policy Development; (h)
BGC: Policy Revision and Review; (i) BHE: Use of Electronic Messaging by School Committee
Members; (j) BIBA: School Committee Conferences, Conventions, and Workshops; (k) BID:
School Committee Member Compensation and Expenses; and (l) BK: School Committee




D
Memberships. Ms. Schaeffner recommended including a definition of SMART goals in the
revised policy BA. Members agreed on not deleting language proposed for deletion in section 3
of policy BEDH. The subcommittee discussed and agreed on a recommendation from the
superintendent to further revise policy BID to provide that no member of the school committee
shall be eligible for paid employment in any capacity within the Marblehead Public Schools. The
subcommittee agreed that the recommended changes to policies BA, BBAA, BBBA/BBBB,
BBBC, BBBE, BG, BGC, and BIBA could be addressed by the school committee through its
consent agenda.

Ms. Schaeffner made a motion to approve, as discussed, the changes for policies BA, BBAA,
BBBA/BBBB, BBBC, BBBE, BEDH, BG, BGC, BIBA, BID and BK. Ms. Schmeckpeper seconded
the motion. The motion passed 2-0.
The subcommittee discussed addressing MASC’s proposed changes to policies in sections C
and D of the policy manual at its next meeting. Members also discussed looking into options to
format the electronic policy manual differently.

The meeting adjourned at 9:14.

Exhibits
Draft 8/28/25 Meeting Minutes
Policy AC: Non-Discrimination Policy Including Harassment and Retaliation
Draft Policy IHAI-A: Middle School Pathway Exploration
Proposed Revisions to Policy BA: School Committee Operational Goals
Proposed Revisions to Policy BBAA: School Committee Member Authority
Proposed Revisions to Policy BBBA/BBBB: School Committee Member Qualifications/Oath of
Office


                                                  T
Proposed Revisions to PolicyBBBC: School Committee Member Resignation
Proposed Revisions to Policy BBBE: Unexpired Term Fulfillment
Proposed Revisions to Policy BEDH: Public Comment at School Committee Meetings
Proposed Revisions to Policy BG: School Committee Policy Development




        R
Proposed Revisions to Policy BGC: Policy Revision and Review
Proposed Revisions to Policy BHE: Use of Electronic Messaging by School Committee
Members




         AF
Proposed Revisions to Policy BIBA: School Committee Conferences, Conventions, and
Workshops
Proposed Revisions to Policy BID: School Committee Member Compensation and Expenses
Policy BK: School Committee Memberships




D
