                                  Paul Baker
                                   79 Overlook Road
                                      Marblehead
                                      MA, 01945


November 16, 2022

Select Board/School Committee
Town of Marblehead
Marblehead, MA, 01945


Dear members of the Select Board and School Committee,

I would like to register my interest in ﬁlling the vacant seat on the Marblehead School
Committee.

My wife, Julie, and I are longtime residents of Marblehead (22 years) and former local
business owners who always supported the local schools with gift cards and teacher
luncheons at both the Gerry and Coﬃn schools.

We have two sons, Silas and Wendell. At present, Silas is a freshman at American
University in DC and Wendell a 6th grader at the Village school.

I am currently the Head of School at the Devereux and Devereux@Waring Schools. In
addition to my day position I volunteer my time serving as a member of the MCCPS
Board of Trustees here in Marblehead. I am in my 3rd term (7th year) and have served
both as Board Clerk(twice) and Vice-Chair as well as Chair of the Development &
Communications Committee and Chair of the Governance Committee during my time
on the Board.

I believe that I have learned many of the intricacies of working with others as part of a
Board/Committee (some years as many as 13 fellow members) during my tenure at
MCCPS. I am well versed in Roberts Rules, Ma. Open Meeting and Conﬂict of Interest
Laws and have experience in the interview and hiring process at the Head of School/
Superintendent level.

I was asked to sit (and served) on the hiring/interview committee for the current
Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy and have been vocal, both in print and in
meetings, with regards to the goings on within the Marblehead Public School District
going as far back as the pre-closure of the Gerry School.

After living in Massachusetts as a “Permanent Legal Resident/Green card holder” since
1998, I ﬁnally became a US citizen this year. My new citizenship status aﬀords me two
things; the ability to vote in all elections, local, state and national and the opportunity
to serve/run for election on town Boards and Committees.

At my “swearing-in ceremony” at the JFK Building in Boston, the proctor urged all of
us newly minted citizens to “vote, to make a diﬀerence, to get involved and to give
back” to our new country.

I have supported, held signs, hosted lawn signs, sent emails, written “letters to the
editor” and “talked up” many of you who are reading this letter, so too have I disagreed
with and criticized others of you. However, as a resident, business owner and tax payer
I believe that I have spoken plainly, factually and been as involved as possible without
actually being able to vote or run for oﬃce.

All this being said, I view this vacant School Committee seat as a chance to truly give
back and make a diﬀerence to our town and would welcome the opportunity to ﬁll the
seat until elections are held in June, 2023.

If selected, I would of course, relinquish my seat on the MCCPS Board of Trustees and
give my all to the School Committee position for the next six months and hopefully
beyond.

Conversely, if not selected, and I’m sure there are many qualiﬁed residents vying for
the opportunity to serve, then so be it. Either way, I will continue to stay involved,
campaign for and champion others, but above all exercise my right to ﬁnally attend
and vote at Town Meeting!

Thanks so much to all of you for both your consideration of my candidacy and all that
you do for our town.

Sincerely,



Paul Baker
                                    Paul Baker
Proﬁle

Strong project and time management skills; ability to eﬀectively backwards plan, juggle
multiple priorities with great attention to detail, and deliver consistent and timely results

Strong strategic and analytical skills with an aptitude for shifting from ﬁre-ﬁghting to
systems-building

Sense of humility, customer service mindset, and able to proactively solve problems and
make decisions quickly

Team player with strong interpersonal and stakeholder management and relationship
building skills

Ability to lead, inﬂuence, and hold others accountable to upholding high standards of
operational excellence

High level of comfort with ﬁnancial oversight and budgetary tracking

Calm under pressure, especially in diﬃcult conversations with parents and staﬀ


Experience

Head of School/Associate Head of School, Devereux and Devereux@Waring 2019-
Present

Trustee/Clerk/Vice-Chair, Board of Trustees, MCCPS, Marblehead, Ma- 2016-Present.

Chef/owner, Foodiesuppers, Marblehead, MA — 2018–2019

Chef/Owner Haley’s Wines & Market Cafe Marblehead MA- 2013-2018

Simpson Corporation, Chef/Manager, Salem, Ma-2012-2013

Panera Bread Assistant Manager, Boston Ma-2011-2012

Foodies’ Feast Chef/Owner, Marblehead, Ma- 2002-2011

The Boston Globe, Assistant Manager, Boston Ma-1999-2002

Emerson College, Kitchen Manager, Boston Ma-1998-1999

University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada-1998 B.A. - Native Canadian History/English




                        79 Overlook Road, Marblehead, Ma. 01945
From:
Date: November 30, 2022 at 3:56:15 PM EST
To: wileyk@marblehead.org, Sarah Fox <fox.sarah@marbleheadschools.org>
Subject: Letter of interest for MHD School Committee opening

Hi Kyle and Sarah,

I'm submitting this letter of interest to be considered for the vacancy on the Marblehead School Committee.
Attached is my resume as also requested.

I have volunteered in the schools over the past 9 years, have been actively involved in both the Coffin Gerry
feasibility study as well as the Bell Coffin Gerry budget override ballot initiatives, and I regularly attend School
Committee meetings as well as other town committee meetings. I'm interested in being considered to fill this
vacancy not only because of my proven passion and advocacy for our MHD Schools' staff and students, but
because I believe my background, experience and proven track record of collaborating with diverse teams
would be of value to our school committee and the MHD community.

Thanks in advance for your consideration and I look forward to participating in the next steps of the selection process.

Thanks,
Kim Day
                                               KIMBERLY M. DAY
                                      18 Liberty Road, Marblehead, MA 01945



SUMMARY:

Dynamic leader with over 12 years of professional experience and proven success in integrated marketing to both
consumer and business targets. Experienced in industries as diverse as consumer products, medical devices, mobile
and internet services and enterprise software. Recognized strategic advisor with a passion for formulating and
implementing customer-centric, metric-driven business solutions. Reliable team player and intentional leader with the
proven ability to effectively build teams and collaborate both in-person and remotely.

MARBLEHEAD SCHOOLS VOLUNTEER EXPERIENCE:

Marblehead High School Parent Teacher Organization, Marblehead, MA
Co-Vice President                                                                                  May 2020 – present

• Support committee fundraising and community-building initiatives throughout the school year.
• Assist in planning and managing budget goals that support MHS staff and student needs.

Local Ballot Override Committees, Marblehead, MA
Marketing Advisor                                                                          September 2018 - June 2019
• Assisted with marketing efforts of successful ballot committee aimed at passing $54M town budget override to
build a new K-3 grade elementary school in Marblehead.
• Designed and led door-to-door campaign prior to vote including mapping out routes, recruiting volunteers to
canvas neighbors with voter information, assembling volunteer packets.
• Wrote Letter to the Editor in support of new school and identified other community members to submit letters in
support of the new school.
• Actively participated in social media campaign and distribution of relevant information to voters.

Co-Chair                                                                                      January 2016 - June 2016
• Led volunteer team in successful passing of a $750,000 town budget override for a feasibility study to build a new
K-3 grade elementary school in Marblehead.
• Co-built school building committee website and wrote content educating voters on the need for a new school and
the feasibility study process for working with the Massachusetts School Building Authority.
• Managed and wrote content for Facebook page and email campaign to disseminate information to voters.
• Recruited volunteers to submit Letters to the Editor in support of the override, send postcards to local friends and
family, hold signs on day of vote.

Coffin Gerry Elementary School Parent Teacher Organization, Marblehead, MA
Co-President                                                                                     May 2015 - May 2018
• Oversaw board and sub-committees that ran fundraising and community-building events throughout the school
year including annual Halloween carnival, holiday shop, silent auction, bi-annual talent show, year-round staffing
of school thrift shop.
• Set yearly calendar of events, wrote weekly email newsletter to school community regarding upcoming events and
programs.
• Liaison between school community and other district schools as well as superintendent’s office and town school
committee.
Co-Vice President                                                                            May 2014 - May 2015
Co-Secretary                                                                                 May 2013 - May 2014

Kimberly M. Day                                                                                                  Page | 1
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:

Deloitte - Green Dot Agency, Boston, MA
Contractor, Senior Marketing Program Manager                                                 November 2019 – present

•   Manage internal client and stakeholder relationships by serving as a strategic partner and trusted collaborator for
    integrated marketing campaign supporting multiple business lines.
•   Oversee and evaluate marketing projects coming into the GDA, ensuring scope, timeline, and budget are
    managed appropriately while aiming to meet and exceed client expectations.
•   Own end-to-end operational aspects of marketing campaign execution, tracking, and reporting in Workfront and
    campaign dashboard tools.
•   Facilitate regular touchpoints with stakeholders and production meetings with cross-functional marketing teams
    within the GDA to discuss ongoing activations and contingency planning.

Wunderman, San Francisco, CA
Account Director                                                                      September 2007 – February 2009
• Led multi-agency team that successfully developed integrated brand and direct marketing campaigns for Align
Technology, Inc. (makers of Invisalign, clear, plastic aligners designed to straighten teeth), resulting in increasing
sales by over 400%; decreasing cost per sale by 54%; increasing unaided brand awareness by 11%; increasing aided
awareness by 13%.
• Directed cross-functional team (creative, media, analytics, digital, production) in the development of marketing
recommendations, testing strategies, budgets, ROI analyses, qualitative and quantitative research, and creative
development of marketing activities.
• Launched new creative campaign to increase purchase intent among targets and drive response. Executed across
diverse media including DRTV, DR print, online banners and rich media, search advertising, social media, POP,
sales material and new website.
• Headed internal teams in the development and execution of mobile and digital communications strategies for
MSN’s mobile portal based on business objectives and long-term ROI goals resulting in +92% in response volume
and -48% cost per response.
• Identified opportunities to acquire new users and motivate trial among loyal PC users through targeted messaging
based on behavioral and consumer modeling techniques.
• Identified and pursued opportunities to increase scope of agency responsibility with client partners. Increased
scope of agency’s work with client by 125% in one year.
• Key member of new business pitch team.

Management Supervisor                                                                      May 2004 – September 2007
• Piloted the development of a multi-touch direct marketing B2B program for one of Symantec’s enterprise
software solutions. Program designed to drive up-sell and cross-sell opportunities with existing customers. First
program within Symantec that shifted the agency/client relationship from tactical projects as needed, to fully
integrated and coordinated communications programs. Resulted in broader agency engagement across multiple lines
of business.
• Managed agency team responsible for designing a direct to consumer campaign for MSN Internet Access to entice
dial-up users to switch from their current ISP provider to MSN’s offering; achieved targeted results even with
heightened competitive pressure from other dial-up ISPs as well as increased broadband penetration.

Account Supervisor                                                                            August 2003 – May 2004
• Collaborated with MSN TV to develop a comprehensive launch marketing plan across multiple target segments
for direct and retail sales of their new product. Designed plan based on best performing elements of historical

Kimberly M. Day                                                                                                  Page | 2
campaigns, with additional testing strategies that allowed for ongoing optimization. Product was the top seller
through Microsoft’s direct sales channel over the holidays and campaign achieved product awareness of +30%
among targets.
• Implemented grassroots campaign for MSN TV’s primary older American target through DR collateral, radio,
print, TV as well as live educational seminars in high opportunity senior communities resulting in +110% in
response metrics and +49% in qualified leads.
• Developed online promotion for Electronic Art’s launch of an updated version of The Sims Online to promote
subscription conversion. Resulted in +30% conversion rate, exceeding projections.

Euro RSCG (Formerly Brann Worldwide), San Francisco, CA
Senior Account Executive                                                                  March 2002 – August 2003

• Primary contact for line of business with Visa. Collaborated with Visa on national credit and debit campaigns with
member banks such as Bank of America and Wachovia. Supervised 10 to 15 projects at any given time.
• Led strategy team which identified Safeway.com’s key target segments, and benchmarked existing brand
perception using qualitative and quantitative research. Managed execution of subsequent direct marketing campaign
based on customer insights gained through this research phase.
• Chosen for “crisis team” which successfully rescued a key client relationship; team members were hand-selected
based on strong skills and performance.
• Developed and implemented lead generation campaign for Commerce One’s annual eLink Conference. Worked
with creative team and multiple client groups to ensure consistent brand message, tone, look and feel among
corporate and product materials. Conference attendance exceeded client expectations.
• Supervised internal teams and managed clients from business objectives development to customer segmentation,
creative execution and production, through tracking and performance measurement.
• Ownership of quarterly and annual financial forecasting and planning.

Draftfcb (Formerly DraftWorldwide), Chicago, IL
Account Executive                                                                    January 2000 – September 2001
• Member of a six-person core team that developed and implemented a highly targeted acquisition campaign from
strategy to execution for Intercontinental Hotel Group’s Priority Club (frequency program for hotels worldwide).
Global campaign increased client’s membership base by 8% worldwide.
• Planned and managed multiple customer loyalty/retention campaigns for same client using an integrated approach
of direct mail, print and digital media channels.
• Evaluated industry competitors in order to benchmark client’s campaigns and guide marketing and advertising
plans.
• Performed quantitative analyses to track program performance and guide strategy for future acquisition/loyalty
campaigns.

World Resources Institute, Washington, DC
Program Coordinator, Economics Program                                            September 1997 – September 1999

Meridian International Center, Washington, DC
Associate, Grants Division                                                           October 1995 – September 1997

EDUCATION:


James Madison University, Harrisonburg, Virginia
Bachelor of Arts, Cum Laude. Double Major: International Affairs and French.

Kimberly M. Day                                                                                                   Page | 3
From: Don DeWitt
                        at 3:51:58 PM EST
To: fox.sarah@marbleheadschools.org, mgrader@littleharboradvisors.com
Subject: Don DeWitt for SC

Dear Chairs of the Marblehead Select Board and School Committee,

I would like to submit this letter of interest in consideration to fill the vacant seat in our
current School Committee and express my interest in running for election to this seat by
our townspeople in June, 2023.

I bring many years of experience in the hospitality industry and am a local small
business owner with two students who currently attend Marblehead Public Schools. I
believe my business acumen would be a great benefit to the financial challenges MPS
faces and as a very involved Marblehead Youth Sports Coach and Parent, I feel
personally connected to many issues involving our students and teachers.

I have been an active member of the Financial Board of Star of the Sea Church and feel
as though my contributions there have been of great benefit.

I would also say that I would be the most "chronologically gifted" member of the board
which I would like to think would bring some welcome sense of experience when
dealing with the many challenges our School Committee is currently facing.

I would be happy to discuss this interest and my professional background with you in
further detail should I have the opportunity.

Thank you in advance for your consideration,
With high regard,
Don DeWitt
Resident
154 Atlantic Avenue
Marblehead, MA 01945
                                               Don DeWitt
                                            154 Atlantic Ave.
                                          Marblehead, MA. 01945


Executive Summary

A community minded professional with an extensive background in managing both the financial and the people
side of business. A father heavily involved in the local community as a parent of two in the Marblehead school
system and managing a 100-year-old Marblehead icon business, Stowaway Sweets®. Through the business,
Don and his wife Emily established the Stowaway Sweets Community Outreach Program, a non-profit
organization that supports various organizations including Cocoa Horizons Foundation, Marblehead Public
Schools, Marblehead Youth Sports, Marblehead Boosters, Our Lady Star of the Sea Church, My Brothers Table,
and others.
His extensive interactions with community members, customers, suppliers, and friends, and his two children,
Don has a good sense for the Marblehead community and comes with an open mind regarding difficult issues
facing the Marblehead School System. (Please see attached)

Background

Stowaway Sweets® LLC
2015 – Current
He and his wife own and operate this 100-year-old specialty chocolate store.
    - Completed a business review that provided direction for improving the customer experience and a
        long term positive financial return for the family as well as a strong brand. Everything counts!
    - Worked to improve vendor relationships that brought quality ingredients and a higher quality product.
        Known as a superb negotiator with a focus on results.
    - Created a financial budget to invest in both the important short term needs while planning for the
        longer-term needs of the business.
    - Initiated a high standard of quality control that has resulted in the highest level of customer
        satisfaction as tallied on the internet.
    - Excellent people skills required in hiring and managing both full time and part time employees who
        manage customer relations both for instore and online orders that serve a global audience.
    - As a hands-on operator, Don is personally involved in the production line that produces only the best
        chocolates available anywhere.

2007 - 2014
Guckenheimer, Boston, MA
Until purchased, this company was the largest independently operated high-end corporate inhouse food
service organization. Clients hired Guckenheimer if their objective was to keep their employees inhouse for
their dining needs.
    - VP of Corporate Catering – Eastern Region
    - Managed the food service budgets of Fortune 100 clients such as Prudential in Boston.
    - Managed of staff 100 employees
    - Responsible for a multi-million-dollar budget and the key client contact.
    - Personally negotiated client contracts

1990 – 2006
Executive Chef and Management roles in the restaurant industry both in New York and Florida.
Education
Fairleigh Dickenson University, New Jersey
School of Hospitality


Volunteer Experience

Marblehead Youth Baseball and Basketball Coach 2007-2019
Finance Board, Star of the Sea Church, Marblehead
Marblehead Chamber of Commerce Board Member
Volunteer, My Brother’s Table, Lynn
Volunteer, Plummer Youth Promise, Salem
Volunteer, Raw Artwork, Lynn
Raymond A. Hansen
39 Evans Rd | Marblehead, MA 01945 |



30 November 2022

Ms. Sarah Fox
Chairperson
Marblehead School Committee
9 Widger Road
Marblehead, MA 01945



Dear Ms. Fox:

I would like to take this opportunity for consideration to fill the available School
Committee seat. Having a career in higher education, I am well acquainted with the value
of education and life-long learning, as well as the importance of a viable inclusive culture
that allows a student to flourish in, and out of, the classroom. Having served as a faculty
member, I understand the challenges of designing and delivering engaging curriculum,
assessing student achievements, and providing support for student learning. Now
serving as an administrator, I have experience driving an appropriate professional
culture of engagement and inclusiveness for students, faculty, and staff, supporting
facilities for ongoing learning activities, and providing oversight of curriculum and
programs. Both experiences are potentially valuable perspectives in serving on this
School Committee.

In referencing the five strategic objectives from the district’s Plan for Success, it is an
ambitious plan with attainable goals which may set the standard for other school
systems to follow. While these are attainable goals, they are not to be achieved without
effort or costs. Responsible funding for these objectives is paramount and should be
prioritized to address immediate needs in the areas of curriculum, technology, and
facilities. Responsible leadership in curriculum, culture, and diversity, equity, and
inclusion is the parallel objective.

It is my goal to serve on the School Committee and to participate in the School
Committee’s leadership in these areas.


Sincerely,



Raymond A. Hansen
                                  Raymond A. Hansen
                                        | 39 Evans Road, Marblehead, MA 01945

Educational Background:
Purdue University – MS (Network Engineering & IT Leadership), 2006
Purdue University – BS (Telecommunications & Networking Technology), 2004
Purdue University – AS (Computer Technology), 2002

Appointments and Positions:
05/21 – Present Associate Dean, School of Computing & Data Science, Wentworth Institute of
                Technology (Boston, Massachusetts)
11/20 – 05/21   Interim Associate Dean, School of Computing & Data Science, Wentworth Institute of
                Technology (Boston, Massachusetts)
                • Mange the daily operations of all academic affairs functions within the School for
                    34 faculty, ~40 adjunct faculty, ~750 students, with a $7.2M operating budget
                • Oversee the design, construction, and outfitting of new Cybersecurity, High-
                    Performance Computing, Embedded AI, and Robotics laboratories: ~$3,100,000
                • Established articulation agreements with community colleges to provide a
                    partnership and pathway to degrees for students in Cybersecurity, Data Science,
                    Computer Science, Information Technology, and Applied Mathematics
                • Seeking Center of Academic Excellence designation from the National Security
                    Agency for B.S. Cybersecurity and M.S. Cybersecurity Analytics programs
01/17 – Present Associate Professor of Cybersecurity, Department of Computer Science & Networking,
                Wentworth Institute of Technology (Boston, Massachusetts)
                • Chaired the committee to design, develop, and create the Cybersecurity
                    undergraduate degree
                • Served as the graduate coordinator for M.S. Applied Computer Science program,
                    including admissions, advising, and scheduling courses for all graduate students
                • Taught cybersecurity courses for the Cybersecurity, Computer Networking, and
                    Computer Science programs, including Network Security, Digital & Network
                    Forensics, and Applied Cryptography using the experiential learning model where
                    students are actively involved in hands-on projects that directly relate to course
                    topics
07/16 – 12/16    Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Computer & Information Technology,
                 Purdue University (West Lafayette, Indiana)
08/08 – 06/16    Clinical Assistant Professor, Department of Computer & Information Technology,
                 Purdue University (West Lafayette, Indiana)
                 • Delivered courses in the Network Engineering Technology, Information
                      Technology, and Digital Forensics programs to students ranging from freshman to
                      PhD on topics including IT Architectures, Internetwork Design, and Network
                      Forensics
                 • Developed the department’s first undergraduate study abroad program (Peru)
                      and first graduate study abroad (Norway)




                                                  1
                 •   Managed, maintained, and budgeted for the network infrastructure for all
                     departmental labs (11) with regular refresh cycles for PCs and servers: ~$150,000
                     every 3 years.
                 •   Won the Department of Computer and Information Technology Outstanding
                     Faculty in Learning award (2013, 2014, 2016), and the College of Technology
                     Outstanding Faculty in Learning award (2016) as the student-selected best teacher
06/05 – 12/08    Senior Research Engineer, Broadband Antenna Aiming Systems, Inc.
                 • Developed software to search, acquire, and optimize specific wireless signals for
                     antenna systems using a variety of different RF radio standards (IEEE 802.11a/b/g,
                     Motorola Canopy, Symbol Systems Bridge, etc.)
                 • Evaluated different high-gain antennae types for usage in varied usage and
                     implementation scenarios
07/04 – 08/06    Teaching/Research Assistant, Purdue University (West Lafayette, Indiana)
                 • Managed all laboratory sections and resources for CNIT346 Wireless Networks
                    and CNIT446 Advanced Wireless Networks
                 • Worked in a team of 4 to manage ~250 PCs and servers, 75 routers and switches,
                    and 20 wireless access points for ~10 different courses, in 6 locations
02/01 – 01/03    Network & Systems Analyst, Martin’s Super Markets (South Bend, Indiana)
                 • Responsible for Tier 1 and Tier 2 support to 20+ locations for server and PC OSes,
                    applications, hardware, as well as other store systems
                 • Developed a network monitoring application to track network performance and
                    alert personnel of outages in order to triage events for rapid return to operations
                 • Designed and implemented McAfee ePO anti-malware system throughout all
                    company locations for Microsoft platforms, and crafted digital policies for
                    malware mitigation
Special Appointments
06/15            Visiting Researcher, University of Stavanger (Stavanger, Norway)
11/14 – 12/16    Faculty, Center for Education and Research in Information Assurance and Security
                 (CERIAS), Purdue University (West Lafayette, Indiana)

Volunteer and Service Positions
08/21 – Present IT Committee, Boson Yacht Club (Marblehead, Massachusetts)
03/09 – 6/21    Board of Directors, Information & Telecommunications Education and Research
                Association (ITERA) (Murray, Kentucky)
                • 03/20 – 06/21        President
                • 03/13 – 04/16        President
                • 09/11 – 03/13        Vice-President

Patents:
    USPTO Patent Number 9,246,207: Smith, A.H., Bentley, L.D., Kane, M.D., and Hansen, R.A. Antenna
    Aiming System and Method for Broadband Wireless Access.




                                                  2
                                THOMAS PAUL MATHERS
                                       204 Ocean Avenue
                             Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945 U.S.A.



EMPLOYMENT:

2019-Present   Allievex Corporation, Marblehead, MA
               Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer, Director

               Full profit and loss responsibility for a clinical stage biotechnology company developing
               novel therapies for the treatment of rare pediatric neurodegenerative diseases.
               Responsible for all aspects of general management, formulation of current and long-term
               plans and objectives, administration, finance, and research and development
               management.
               • Company formation and in-license of initial asset base to include tralesinidase alfa,
                   an investigational enzyme replacement therapy for the treatment of children with
                   Sanfilippo syndrome type B or mucopolysaccharidosis IIIB (MPS IIIB).
               • Completed Series A Preferred private equity financing - $57MM (2019-2021)
               • Completed debt financing of $5MM (2021)
               • Completed convertible debt financing of $1MM (2018)
               • Conducted multiple Type C meetings with FDA and Scientific Advice with EMA
               • Conducted multiple clinical studies with ongoing pivotal phase 2/3 trial
               • Private Investor Syndicate: Pappas Capital, Novo Ventures, Asahi Kasei Pharma,
                   LifeSci Ventures, LG Ventures

2018-Present   Pappas Capital LLC. Marblehead, MA and Durham, NC
               Partner, Pappas Ventures V

               Responsible for new company formation, as well as sourcing and evaluating prospective
               investment opportunities, and providing expertise and oversight to Pappas portfolio
               companies. Pappas Capital invests exclusively in the life science sector – biotechnology,
               biopharmaceuticals, drug delivery, medical devices and related ventures – across the
               United States and Canada.
               • As of 12/30/21: 2.6x MOIC; 65% IRR; 75% DPI

2011-2017      CoLucid Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: CLCD) Cambridge, MA
               President and Chief Executive Officer, Director

               Full profit and loss responsibility for a publicly traded clinical stage pharmaceutical
               company focused on the development of a new chemical entity and novel mechanism of
               action for the acute treatment of episodic migraine.
               • Completed $960 M acquisition by Eli Lilly & Co. (NYSE: LLY)
               • Completed follow-on public offering with gross proceeds of $74.8MM (2016)
               • Completed initial public offering with gross proceeds of $55MM (2015)
               • Completed private equity financing totaling $37.1MM (2015)
               • Completed convertible debt financings totaling $9.5MM (2011)
               • Conducted multiple Type A, Type B and Type C meetings with the FDA and
                   negotiated two Special Protocol Assessment - Agreement
               • Completed eight clinical studies with pivotal phase 3 trials SAMURAI (2,225
                   patients), SPARTAN (2,968 patients) and GLADIATOR (2,580 patients)
               • Filed two Investigational New Drug Applications 103,420 and 128,230
               • Private Investor Syndicate: Pappas, Domain, Care Capital, TVM, Novo Ventures
Thomas P. Mathers                                                                                        Page 2

2003-2011           Peptimmune, Inc. Cambridge, MA
                    President and Chief Executive Officer, Director

                    Full profit and loss responsibility for a privately held clinical stage biotechnology
                    company focused on developing peptides and amino acid copolymers for the treatment
                    of CNS and chronic inflammatory diseases.
                    • Completed three private equity financings totaling $84MM (2003, 2005, 2009)
                    • Completed venture debt financing of $12MM (2006)
                    • Negotiated and consummated Option Agreement with Novartis Pharmaceuticals for
                        the acquisition of Peptimmune for $680MM following completion of successful phase
                        2 clinical development of lead compound PI-2301 (2009)
                    • Filed three Investigational New Drug applications (10,992; 61,262; 70,129)
                    • Strategic sale of PI-2301 phase 2 program to Merck-Serono (2011)
                    • Strategic sale of all other assets to Zermatt Pharmaceuticals (2011)
                    • Private Investor syndicate: NEA, MPM Capital, Prism, Hunt Bioventures, Vanguard

2002-2003           Cell Based Delivery, Inc. Providence, RI
                    President and Chief Executive Officer, Director

                    Full profit and loss responsibility for a privately held biotechnology company spin-out
                    from Brown University focusing on the development of ex-vivo gene therapy for
                    treatment of hemophilia.
                    • Completed Series A private equity financing - $12MM (2002)
                    • Oversaw grants from NIST (ATP), DARPA and NIA
                    • Upon failure of platform technology and lead product candidate, promptly notified
                        Board of Directors and investors and returned Series A investment to investors
                    • Private Investor syndicate: TVM, Forbion, Vertical Group, Piper Jaffray

2001-2002           Cardion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Boston, MA
                    Cardion AG, Düsseldorf, Germany
                    General Manager and Corporate Vice President

                    Establishment and full profit and loss responsibility for a privately held biotechnology
                    company focused on discovery and development of protein therapeutics for the
                    treatment of autoimmune disorders, inflammatory diseases, and cardiovascular
                    diseases, functioning as a subsidiary of a German private biotechnology company.
                    • Member of senior management team that successfully negotiated acquisition of
                        Cardion by Roche (2002)
                    • Member of senior management team that completed private equity financing of
                        €11MM (2002)
                    • Private Investor syndicate: TVM, Muenchmeyer Holdings, Alpinvest, West LB

1992-2001           Genzyme Corporation, Cambridge, MA
                    Vice President, Strategic Development

                    Responsibilities included managing cardiovascular biotherapeutics research and
                    development and all facets of strategic business development for the cardiovascular
                    business unit. Program management of cardiovascular gene therapy, cardiovascular cell
                    therapies and cardiovascular biomaterials. Managed team of principal scientists, medical
                    doctors, program managers, and business development managers. Prior roles: Senior
                    Director, Cardiovascular Global Marketing; Northeast Regional Sales Manager

1991-1992           Pfizer, Incorporated, Virginia Beach, VA
                    Professional Sales Representative
Thomas P. Mathers                                                                                    Page 3


MILITARY
EXPERIENCE:

1988-1991           Captain, United States Army - Aviation, Savannah, GA
                    Apache Attack Helicopter Pilot and Platoon Leader

                    Awarded Air Medal, two Army Commendation Medals, Army Achievement Medal for
                    actions in the 1991 Gulf War. Planned and led highly successful combat multi-helicopter
                    operations against Iraqi Republican Guard forces during Operation Desert Storm

EDUCATION:          United States Military Academy, West Point, NY
                    Bachelor of Science, Engineering (1988)
                    Dean’s List, Superintendent’s Award, three Varsity Football Letters

BOARDS:             Current: Allievex Corporation; Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO), Department of
                    Veteran’s Affairs Research Advisory Committee of Gulf War Veteran’s Illnesses

                    Prior: LifeSci Acquisition Corp. (NASDAQ: LSAQ); 4D Molecular Therapeutics
                    (NASDAQ: FDMT); Board of Trustees, Butler University; CoLucid Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
                    (NASDAQ: CLCD); BIO [2008 – 2017] – Chairman, Intellectual Property Subcommittee;
                    CureFAKtor, LLC; Déclion Holdings; Peptimmune, Inc.; Cell Based Delivery, Inc.;
                    Chairman, Parish Finance Committee, St. Rose of Lima Church

                    Advisory: Progeria Research Foundation, DADA2 Foundation

                    Elected: Masconomet Regional School System 2013 - 2016

PATENTS:            US 6,610,071 “Suture System for Cardiac Valvuloplasty”
                    US 8,546,532 “Design and Synthesis of Directed Sequence Polymer Compositions and
                    Antibodies Thereof for the Treatment of Protein Conformational Disorders”
                    US 9,533,037 “Methods for Designing and Preparing Vaccines Comprising Directed
                    Sequence Polymer Compositions via the Directed Expansion of Epitopes”

ADDITIONAL:         Married (31 years), two children and avid sports enthusiast.
                    Basic German and French language skills. Licensed commercial rotary wing pilot
My name is Liam McGeown and I believe I would be a strong asset to the Marblehead Public
School Committee. I was born and raised in Marblehead, own 2 thriving business in town and
have 3 young children in the public school system,

Growing up in town with a learning disability, I faced and overcame adversity. I started in a
private Catholic school setting and later transferred to the Marblehead Public Schools. I feel
there is nothing more important than in uencing the school system that plays such a huge role
in the young lives of this town. Marblehead graciously and generously paid to send me to
Landmark where I was the rst hybrid student, attending Marblehead half of the school day
and Landmark the rest. From there I went on to graduate cum laude from Salem State with a
criminal justice degree.


I strongly believe that education is the corner stone of success and responsibility of becoming
a productive member of society. I appreciate your consideration and I look forward to bettering
the education of the youth of Marblehead.




Sincerely,

Liam McGeown
             fi
                        fl
                                                                                   Liam McGeown
                                                                                  14 Driftwood Rd
                                                                            Marblehead, MA 01945




EMPLOYMENT HISTORY:
MARBLEHEAD MOVERS, Marblehead, MA
Owner/CEO
2011 - Present
  •    Directs the company in keeping with the vision outlined for the company
  •    Oversee quality control throughout the company, establishing goals for each department in
       partnership with division managers

FIRST COLONY BRAZILIAN JUJITSU, Marblehead, MA
Owner/CEO
2018 - Present
  •    Directs the company in keeping with the vision outlined for the company
  •    Works closely with the team to ensure a quality experience for students

DEVELOPMENT & MANAGEMENT, Van Otterloo Family, Marblehead , MA
2007-2011
Project Manager:
• Managed residential and commercial Construction projects
• Lead projects through all phases of construction management, subcontractor supervision and finance/
  budget control
Project Development:
• Founder of the Blueberry Road LLC, a development project
• Researched and Identified properties
• Designed marketable structures - *(sold first completed unit, 1 day on the market)
• Worked with investors, contractors, architects and engineers.
Administrator, Turner Hill The Residences at Turner Hill:
• Recorded minutes, with architects, contractors, and land owner.
Property Management:
• Manage 5 commercial Marblehead properties.
• Learned to balance the needs of tenants and building owner
• Over saw building maintenance

G. F. CONSTRUCTION, Marblehead, MA
2008-2011
• Residential and commercial hands on construction experience
• Advising and directing clients through out home projects
• Working on, dry laid granite walls, granite stairs and foundations, Finish wood work and high quality
  paint.
• Developed a net work of reliable subcontractors and high quality craftsma, in the area
• A vast comprehension of material and product as well as application experience
*OSHA 10 hour, RRP Certified, and Laser Safety Awareness.

Senior Mortgage Loan Officer, CONSUMER HOME MORTGAGER, Andover, MA
2005-2007
• Promoted business by developing relationships with realtors, borrowers, and builders
• Developed strong communication skills, sales techniques
• Effective at cold calling and identifying the costumers needs, explain how to solve customer issues
*Recipient of Sale man of the month award twice
*Member of the Producers Club

Junior/Senior Mortgage Loan Officer, EAST WEST MORTGAGE, Danvers, MA
2002-2005
• Learned to use the different underwriting programs in order to qualify borrowers
• Became proficient in analyzing loan applications and honing communication skills
*Out of 100 loan officer was consistently in the top five.

Education
Bachelors of Science, Salem State University, Salem, MA,
Major Criminal Justice with a broad range of courses, including statistics, sociology, organizational
development, and economics.
National Sociology Honor Society Alpha Kappa Delta
Graduated Cum Laude

SKILLS
Bringing people together, motivating people, interpreting information, negotiating, selling, teaching
and setting goals.

Interests and Activities
Teaching Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu - Yoga- Writing & Illustrating- East German Shepherd Training/Breeding
References furnished upon request
                                                                               30 November, 2022

Scott Stunkel
12 Heritage Way
Marblehead, MA 01945

School Administration Office
Attention Ms. Sarah Fox
9 Widger Road
Marblehead MA, 01945

Office of the Select Board
Attention Mr. Moses Grader 1
88 Washington Street Abbot Hall
Marblehead MA, 01945

To the Marblehead School Committee and Select Board,

        Hello! I am writing today to indicate my interest in volunteering to fill the Marblehead
School Committee vacancy announced November 16th.
        The role of educator has been a part of my life from a very early age. I’ve always had a
knack for “explaining” technology to both those older and younger than me. I had a series of
jobs that took advantage of that skill informally, but it really solidified when I chose to pursue a
Masters in the Science of Education for teaching technology. This really immersed me in the
problems of education including differentiation of education, rigor and quality of education,
measurement of progress. There are few more important problems in our society than tackling
these issues, and as a secondary-school teacher for 4 years in Chicago I had opportunities to both
observe them deeply and work with our administration on finding solutions to them.
        In my fourth year of teaching, I really wanted to do something that had a chance to move
the needle for as many teachers as possible. I had an idea for a technology platform for sharing
teaching materials, and a company out in Connecticut agreed to fund my idea. From there, my
career path took me away from teaching, but I’ve kept with recent developments and trends in
education and still fascinated by the problems there.
        I moved to Marblehead in 2018 with my family and I’ve really fallen in love with the
community here. It’s a town with a ton of history and a huge spirit of collaboration on town
issues. I recently heard about the vacancy on the school committee and I was wondering if I
could use both my education and my experience since as a software engineering leader to help
out.
        I’m really looking forward to meeting all of you and potentially working with you to
tackle the management of education in our community. Please don’t hesitate to reach out at my
email –                         or


Sincerely,
Scott Stunkel
Scott Stunkel
Hands-on Software Engineering Leader


                                                       EXPERIENCE
                                                       ASSOC. VICE PRESIDENT ENGINEERING / DOTMATICS
                                                       JAN 2022 - PRESENT / BOSTON, MA
                                                       Dotmatics is a family of best-in-class software tools for scientific research, alongside a data platform
                                                       for organizing and managing the data. I am currently managing the data aggregation platform team,
                                                       as well as a scientific instrument acquisition product team called BioBright.
                                                        As part of my work, I
                                                       -Manage a team of 25 engineers and 4 managers
                                                       -Defined the future data management strategy for Dotmatics

                                                       SENIOR ENGINEERING MANAGER / PERKINELMER
                                                       SEPT 2015 – JAN 2022 / WALTHAM, MA
                                                       PerkinElmer is a 4.3-billion-dollar-a-year software, equipment, reagent, and services company that
    CONTACT                                            services both the healthcare and research space. I worked in the Informatics department as a leader
    Name                                               on the Signals informatics products
    Scott Stunkel                                      As part of my work, I
                                                       -Scaled my team from two software engineers and one QA engineer to 12 software engineers and 4
                                                       QA engineers.
                                                       -Grew the Signals Data Factory project from scratch to be the key technological platform component
    Mail                                               in products that earn over 10 million dollars annually.
                                                       -Architected the main data transformation pipeline using Apache Spark, including high-speed data
                                                       indexing from Spark to Elasticsearch.
    Address                                            -Wrote Node.JS and Scala microservices to perform critical services to the platform, such as search,
    12 Heritage Way                                    job scheduling, and data retrieval.
    Marblehead, MA 01945                               - Worked heavily with Elasticsearch to define both our platform Search API and data model (within
                                                       ES).
    LinkedIn                                           -Spearheaded transition of services to running inside Docker containers for ease of running both in
    linkedin.com/in/scott-                             development and in production, and later helped with the transition to running Kubernetes clusters
    stunkel-46059521                                   using Helm, Ceph.
                                                       -Won company awards for my customer-facing efforts as part of deals with Bristol-Meyers Squibb,
                                                       GlaxoSmithKline and Loxo Oncology.
    SKILLS                                             -Was promoted four time and won 3 awards at PerkinElmer.
    PRIMARY SKILLS                                     CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER / ANDOVER EDUCATION
    Skills that I have done recent,                    OCT 2013 – SEP 2015 / WESTPORT,
    extensive work in and have good,                   Andover Education was an education services and test preparation company, with running projects at
                                                       CT
    off-the-cuff knowledge about -                     three of the top ten school districts in the US.
    Scala, Node.JS, Kubernetes
                                                       As part of my work. I
    (Helm), Docker, (Rook) Ceph,
    Minio, Docker Compose,                             -Designed, constructed, managed, and delivered a wholly new and unique education technology tool,
    ECMAScript 6/7,Apache Spark                        Fulcrum, which allows teachers to easily find teaching content related to their subject area (the project
    3.X, Git, Go, AWS, Elasticsearch,                  has since been discontinued).
    MongoDB, NGINX                                     -Migrated all company web services to a mix of Amazon Web Services and Microsoft Azure.
                                                       -Implemented Fulcrum using the latest version of Ember.JS for the frontend and Python/Django for
                                                       the backend – personally participated in coding both parts.
                                                       -Developed secondary testing platform using open-source PHP project Moodle as a base.
    SECONDARY SKILLS
                                                       -Was the team lead of a team of four software engineers.
    Skills that I’ve worked with in the
    past, that I would have little
                                                       OTHER EXPERIENCE – FOR MORE INFORMATION PLEASE SEE LINKEDIN
    trouble diving into again if given
    a little time to get up to speed –                 AP COMPUTER SCIENCE TEACHER / CHICAGO INTL CHARTER SCHOOLS
    Python, Django, PHP, Puppet,                       AUG 2010-OCT 2013 / CHICAGO, IL
    Vagrant, PostgreSQL, Redis.                        FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR / PURDUE UNIVERSITY
    Ember, React, Redux, Tableau,
                                                       AUG 2007-MAY 2008 / WEST LAFAYETTE, IN
    Spotfire, Azure, Google Cloud
    Platform, Shell Scripting                          INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ANALYST / RAD AND ASSOCIATES
                                                       APR 1999 – AUG 2010 (PART TIME/CONSULTING) / LAKE FOREST, IL

                                                       EDUCATION
    CURRENTLY RESEARCHING                              MASTER OF SCIENCE IN EDUCATION / NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY
    Rust                                               AUG 2008 – AUG 2010 / EVANSTON,
                                                       Master’s
                                                       IL       Thesis Topic – Strategies for Implementing Computer-Based Testing in Social Studies
    INTERESTS                                          Classrooms
    I have a commercial pilot’s                        BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN TECHNOLOGY / PURDUE
    license and love flying! I also
                                                       AUG 2003 – MAY 2008 / WEST LAFAYETTE,
    build computers in my spare                        UNIVERSITY
    time.                                              Major – Professional Flight Technology (Commercial Flying)
                                                       IN


                                Scott Stunkel, 12 Heritage Way, Marblehead, MA 01945
