Exchange Summary
John Buckey, Marblehead Public Schools
October 20, 2022



The Marblehead School Committee, in
partnership with the Superintendent of Schools,
would like to host public forums on various topics
of interest to our school community this year.
What topics would you suggest? (Please keep
each idea as a separate thought to make rating
easier)
PARTICIPATION
Breakdown of Participation
PARTICIPATION
Breakdown of Participation
PARTICIPATION
Breakdown of Participation
PARTICIPATION
Breakdown of Participation
WORDCLOUD
Top Rated
THOUGHTS
Key Thoughts
THOUGHTEXCHANGE 1
Top Themes by total thoughts
THOUGHTEXCHANGE 1
Top Themes by star score
THOUGHTS
Budget
THOUGHTS
Lunch
THOUGHTS
Staff
THOUGHTS
Mental Health
THOUGHTS
Town
DIFFERENCES
Mental Health | Kids and Parents [127 | 49]
WRAP UP
Next Steps


Thanks for participating




We will use this information to inform our public forums and to develop
future Exchanges.
Memo To:        Marblehead School Committee

From:           Nan Murphy

Re:             Agenda Item - Pfs Update - Office of Teaching and Learning

Date:           October 20, 2022



I am pleased to provide the committee with an update regarding the work currently being carried out in the Office of
Teaching and Learning as related to the District’s Plan for Success.

                                              T&L Strategic Objective

Fully align teaching & learning, Prek-12, with our multi-tiered system of supports (MTSS) framework to ensure
all students meet or exceed academic & social-emotional learning expectations.

                                      2022 - 2023 Aligned Strategic Initiatives

1.1 Develop consistent systems, common assessments, & processes for data inquiry & analysis to support
instructional excellence & student growth.

*Developed and facilitated a summer leadership training for K - 12 lead teachers focused on effective meeting
structures, data collection, data analysis protocols and intervention planning for improved student outcomes.
* Allocating one weely PLC collaborative block for teachers to review, analyze and respond to student data.
* Have designated one district after school meeting for PLC time to EXTEND grade level/department school-based
conversations and data analysis
* Have designated one district after school meeting for Pfs working groups across all schools.
* Providing targeted PD for K - 6 teachers on effective “WIN” (What I Need) block instruction.
* Providing K - 8 teachers with PD on effective differentiated instruction
* Improving TAT (Teachers Assistance Teams) structures to provide more targeted support for at risk academic and
social-emotional learners.

1.3 Align the curriculum by engaging in curriculum mapping that includes scope & sequence.

*Teachers continue to use the newly developed scope and sequence to inform pacing and instruction. Curriculum
mapping is being developed congruent with collaborative lesson development within the PLC structure.
                                                  Marblehead Public Schools
                                                          9 Widger Road


                                                    Marbleheadschools.org




                                                        Memorandum

To                   Marblehead School Committee
From                 John J. Buckey, Ed.D., Superintendent of Schools, Marblehead Public Schools
Re                   Superintendent’s Goals for 2022 - 2023
Original Date        September 22, 2022

I am pleased to submit these goals, which align with our Plan for Success (PfS) and the Effective Superintendent Leadership Rubric.
They attend to the needs of Marblehead Public Schools as well as the feedback provided in prior evaluations, including providing a
summarized output/action plan from the results of data collected for each goal and how they support student success.
                                                   Professional Practice Goal
                                            Connection to the Standard: I-E, II-E, III-C, IV-D

Throughout the 22-23 school year, I will continue to build strong relationships with the School Committee and the teachers’ union
while developing a high-functioning leadership team of district administrators and principals through my continued participation in
the New Superintendent Induction Program. I will continue developing skills in strategy & budget development, data analysis, and
instructional leadership.

Key Actions:
   1. Attend all sessions and complete all NSIP assignments.
   2. Attend conferences for leadership and governance professional development.
          a. Leading Now Cohort 5
          b. New England Association of School Superintendents fall conference
          c. MASS/MASC
          d. North Shore Superintendents RoundTable - President
          e. New England Association of Schools & Colleges (NEASC) accreditation visit
          f. AASA National Conference
   3. Meet regularly with my cohort, “consultancy” group, and my assigned coach on a regular basis.
   4. Facilitate two book studies with the Leadership Team.
   5. Lead a three day summer retreat and a two day mid-year retreat with the Leadership Team
   6. Weekly meetings with MEA to address issues
   7. Establish a model of shared leadership with building principals/directors facilitating meetings and PD for Leadership Team

Benchmarks & Outputs:
   1.   Documented attendance and contact with my NSIP peers and coaches
   2.   Elaboration of lessons, skills, strategies, and leadership gained through participation to support coaching the Leadership Team
   3.   Notes of a problem of practice for MPS with the consultancy group
   4.   Book study materials - Switch & Good to Great
   5.   Retreat materials
   6.   MEA meeting agendas and resolutions
   7.   Meeting agendas and professional development materials
                                                     Student Learning Goal
                                        Connection to the Standard: I-E, II-A, II-B, III-B, IV-D

During the 2022-2023 academic year, I will empower and design opportunities for students and educators to build foundational
leadership capacity through opportunities for student voice, choice, representation and advocacy. In doing so I will further develop
the diversity, equity and inclusion initiative from PfS while stabilizing and advancing the METCO program and increasing equity for
all students, with specific focus on students receiving special services.

Key Actions:
   1. Support professional development to build capacity for lead teachers K-12 to facilitate student-centered and data-driven Professional
      Learning Communities models (PLC).
   2. Engage in Data Wise discussions with the Leadership Team and school-based PLCs
   3. Lead data-driven discussions with the Leadership Team and use data to inform budget priorities that align to PfS
   4. Collaborate with the Leadership Team to recruit, hire and support a more diverse staff.
   5. Expand and improve programming with METCO students, families, teachers, staff and leadership by creating opportunities for
      authentic engagement and integration.
   6. Weekly meetings with METCO Director & ongoing coaching
   7. Weekly meetings with the Director of Student Services and ongoing coaching.

Benchmarks & Outputs:
   1. Professional development materials from the Lead Teacher Institute
   2. Data discussions and presentations
   3. FY24 budget built around district priorities and data to support them.
   4. A staff that more mirrors all students and families of MPS
   5. METCO history as part of new teacher induction program; School Committee meeting at METCO Inc.; METCO liaison as a non-voting
      member of school committee; increased number of students in METCO across MPS.
   6. Improved integration of the METCO program and stabilization of program leadership.
   7. Increased opportunities for inclusion
                                                 District Improvement Goal #1
                                        Connection to the Standard: I-D, II-A, III-B, IV-B, IV-D

Using Instructional Rounds during the 2022-2023 academic year, I will collaborate with the leadership team and educators to
strengthen instructional practices with a focus on equity and inclusion. This work will include the implementation of targeted
interventions and supports for all students, including professional development for educators.

Key Actions:
   1.   Schedule a minimum of two school visits at all five schools each month with the principal, AP and Asst. Supt for Teaching and Learning
        using the Optic Focus Element rubric to align observations and to coach leaders in providing targeted feedback.
   2.   Review the data and analyze the effectiveness of current teaching practices
   3.   Examine the frequency and use of high-quality teaching practices
   4.   Support a greater understanding of effective instructional leadership
   5.   Understand, analyze, disaggregate, and implement data-driven decisions regarding instruction
   6.   Continue to implement the use of the MASS DESE teacher evaluation rubrics Resources: Rubrics - Educator Evaluation

Benchmarks & Outputs:
   1.   Schedule of Instructional Rounds and documented observations
   2.   Professional Development that aligns with observed needs and district PfS priorities
   3.   Student-centered conversations that highlight best practices in order to achieve improved outcomes.
   4.   Professional development for building leaders and directors focused on instructional leadership.
   5.   Agendas of weekly and monthly PLC meetings that demonstrate use of data in planning interventions.
   6.   TeachPoint data of observations and feedback to teachers.
                                                 District Improvement Goal #2
                                        Connection to the Standard: I-B, II-C, III-A, III-B, IV-E

During the 2022-23 school year, I will work with schools and the community to increase my visibility and enhance two-way
communication with all stakeholders. This will be evidenced by an increased understanding of our schools by district parents and
community members as measured by varied outreach efforts.

Key Actions:
   1.   Create a Superintendent Advisory Council at MHS, MVMS and Village and meet quarterly to solicit student feedback.
   2.   Facilitate with the School Committee four public forums
   3.   Use ThoughtExchange to solicit community feedback
   4.   Develop the FY24 budget that reflects the needs of the district, addresses community priorities and aligns with PfS.
   5.   Attend and support school-based events documenting them via our district Twitter account
   6.   Produce a Weekly Update
   7.   Participate in Leading Now Cohort 5
   8.   Work with Salem State’s Expect Program on communications and outreach
   9.   Host monthly Superintendent Coffees across MPS and invite families and the community

Benchmarks & Outputs:
   1.   Meeting dates and notes from students’ feedback
   2.   Forum dates and topics
   3.   Evidence and data from ThoughtExchanges
   4.   FY24 budget
   5.   Tweets from events
   6.   Weekly Updates
   7.   Materials from Leading Now sessions and examples of communication
   8.   Examples from work from our Expect students
   9.   Monthly Coffees at various buildings around different announced topics
                                           Connections to Standards

Standard I:                   Standard II:              Standard III:                   Standard IV:
Instructional Leadership      Management & Operations   Family & Community              Professional Culture
                                                        Engagement

I-A: Curriculum               II-A: Environment         III-A: Engagement               IV-A: Commitment to High
                                                                                        Standards

I-B: Instruction              II-B: HR & Management     III-B: Sharing Responsibility   IV-B: Cultural Proficiency
                              Development

I-C: Assessment               II-C: Scheduling &        III-C: Communication            IV-C: Communications
                              Management Information
                              Systems

I-D: Evaluation               II-D: Laws, Ethics and    III-D: Family Concerns          IV-D: Continuous Learning
                              Policies

I-E: Data-Informed Decision   II-E: Fiscal Systems                                      IV-E: Shared Vision
Making

I-F: Student Learning                                                                   IV-F: Managing Conflict
                                                                             Business Office
                                                                             9 Widger Road,
               MARBLEHEAD                                                    Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                             phone: 781.639.3140
               PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                                fax: 781.639.3149


                                       MEMORANDUM


TO:            Marblehead School Committee
FROM:          Michelle Cresta
DATE:          October 17, 2022
RE:            Schedule of Bills for Approval


Included in this packet are the following Schedules of Bills for your consideration. The
schedules and invoices have been uploaded to the shared drive.

                                  Schedule          Amount
                                   22728        $      1,012.50
                                   22737        $     20,819.80
                                   22739        $     53,478.72
                                   22740        $     52,248.46
                                   22741        $    198,859.62
                                   22742        $     39,259.64
                                   22743        $     42,648.18
                                   22744        $     70,256.86
                                   22747        $     11,500.10
                                   22750        $     10,362.50
                                   22759        $     14,394.72
                                   22760        $     52,159.81
                                   22761        $     34,688.98
                                   22762        $     24,802.96
                                   22764        $      5,950.50

                                  TOTAL         $    632,443.35



Suggested Motion:
Motion to approve the identified schedules totaling $632,443.35.
