                                                                             Business Office
                                                                             9 Widger Road,
               MARBLEHEAD                                                    Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                             phone: 781.639.3140
               PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                                fax: 781.639.3149



                                       MEMORANDUM


TO:            Marblehead School Committee
FROM:          Michelle Cresta
DATE:          April 25, 2023
RE:            Schedule of Bills for Approval


Included in this packet are the following Schedules of Bills for your consideration. The
schedules and invoices have been uploaded to the shared drive.


                                  Schedule          Amount
                                   23414        $     21,113.78
                                   23419        $     10,320.42
                                   23422        $    125,721.82
                                   23426        $     87,809.19
                                   23427        $        750.00
                                   23428        $     28,911.17
                                   23451        $     26,849.90
                                   23455        $     35,253.44
                                   23456        $    101,963.08
                                   23459        $      2,033.75
                                   23461        $     13,125.00
                                   23462        $      7,844.10
                                   23483        $      2,933.37
                                   23489        $     19,301.66

                                  TOTAL         $     483,930.68


Suggested Motion:
Motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $483,930.68.
Marblehead Public Schools
Technology Department



                                        2022-2027
               District Technology Plan
                         Plan for Success - Technology
                                           STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE
     Provide students and staff with the necessary technology & support to promote successful student outcomes.

                                                                                                                  1
             Overview of Executive Summary
           Marblehead Public Schools - Five-Year Technology Plan

● Infrastructure - PfS 4.1
     ○   Fiber, Switches, Servers, Desktops, Laptops, Ipads and Chromebooks
         for student 1:1 (K-6)
●   Curriculum/Instruction - PfS 4.5
     ○ STEAM Programs K-6
     ○ Technology Integration Specialist
●   Professional development - PfS 4.4
     ○ Technology Integration Specialist
     ○ Trainings from outside sources
     ○ Ongoing PD for in-classroom technology
     ○ Cyber-Security Trainings
●   Budget - PfS 4.2
     ○ Replacement cycles of student and staff equipment
     ○ Replacement of backend devices and systems
                                                                              2
                               Infrastructure
                  Marblehead Public Schools - Five-Year Technology Plan


● Infrastructure - PfS 4.1
     ○   Fiber - Upgraded in 2021
     ○   Switches - Upgraded/Replaced in 2022
     ○   Servers - Updated 2021-2022
     ○   Desktops - 2021-2023
     ○   Laptops - 2019-2022
     ○   student 1:1
           ■ Ipads 2022
           ■ Chromebooks - 2019-2023




                                                                          3
                       Curriculum/Instruction
                 Marblehead Public Schools - Five-Year Technology Plan


● Curriculum/Instruction - PfS 4.5
     ○   STEAM Programs
          ■ Elementary School Classes
          ■ K-6 Technology Curriculum Map -
             Program development started in 2022
     ○   Technology Integration Specialist
          ■ Providing support to Staff for combining
             technology tools into class lessons
          ■ Support for staff with the use of
             technology
          ■ Provides feedback to Technology
             Director on staff needs and wants.


                                                                         4
                   Professional development
                 Marblehead Public Schools - Five-Year Technology Plan


● Professional development - PfS 4.4
     ○   Technology Integration Specialist
          ■ In Classroom support - Co-Teaching
          ■ 1:1 Trainings
          ■ Team/Group Trainings
     ○   Ongoing PD for in-classroom technology
          ■ Outside Trainers
          ■ Technology Integration Specialist
     ○   Cyber-Security Trainings
          ■ Online MA state training program




                                                                         5
Replacement Cycle Devices
Marblehead Public Schools - Five-Year Technology Plan




                                                        6
Replacement Cycle Systems
Marblehead Public Schools - Five-Year Technology Plan




                                                        7
Replacement Cycle Systems
Marblehead Public Schools - Five-Year Technology Plan




                                                        8
                             Budget
          Marblehead Public Schools - Five-Year Technology Plan

●   Budget Impact - PfS 4.2
     ○ Increases Expected for FY25




                                                                  9
                Questions
Marblehead Public Schools - Five-Year Technology Plan




                                                        10
                                                                                              File: BEDH

                  PUBLIC COMMENT AT SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETINGS


All regular and special meetings of the School Committee shall be open to the public. Executive sessions
will be held only as prescribed by the Statutes of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

The School Committee desires citizens of the District to attend its meetings so that they may become better
acquainted with the operations and the programs of our local public schools. In addition, the Committee
would like the opportunity to hear the wishes and ideas of the public.

In order that all citizens who wish to be heard before the Committee have a chance and to ensure the ability
of the Committee to conduct the District's business in an orderly manner, the following rules and
procedures are adopted:

   1. At the start of each regularly scheduled School Committee meeting, individuals or group
      representatives will be invited to address the Committee. The Chair shall determine the length of
      the public participation segment.
   2. Speakers will be allowed three (3) minutes to present their material. The presiding Chair (or a
      majority vote of the committee) may permit extension of this time limit.
   3. Topics for discussion should be limited to those items within the School Committee's scope of
      authority. The authority of the School Committee primarily concerns the review and approval of
      the budget of the district's public schools, the performance of the Superintendent, and the
      educational goals and policies of the district's public schools. Comments and complaints
      regarding specific school personnel (apart from the Superintendent) or students are only allowed
      if those comments and complaints concern matters within the scope of School Committee
      authority. Under most circumstances, administrative channels are the preferred means for
      disposition of legitimate complaints involving staff members. Although no member of the
      community will be denied the right to bring their complaints to the Committee, they will be
      referred through the proper administrative channels in accordance with Policy KE (Public
      Complaints) for solution before investigation or action by the Committee. Exceptions will
      be made when the complaints concern Committee actions or Committee operations only
   4. The Chair has the authority to establish additional rules, policies, and requirements to ensure
      School Committee meetings are conducted in an orderly and peaceable manner. Disruptive
      conduct and remarks will not be allowed. If a speaker persists in disruptive conduct or remarks
      after clear warning from the Chair or Committee, the Chair may terminate that individual’s
      privilege of address.
   5. All remarks will be addressed through the Chair of the meeting.
   6. Written comments longer than three (3) minutes may be presented to the Committee before or
      after the meeting for the Committee members' review and consideration at an appropriate time.
   7. Public Comment is not a discussion, debate, or dialogue between citizens and the Committee,
      however the Committee can address questions and themes as they are deemed appropriate by the
      Chair or a majority of the Committee. It is a citizen's opportunity to express his/her opinion on
      issues of School Committee authority. The Committee and/or administrator's may not be prepared
      to directly respond to citizen questions posed in this forum but the Chair may request that citizens
      put the question in writing to the appropriate person or body so that the matter is given the proper
      consideration.


SOURCE: Marblehead



Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18, Revised 4/27/2023
                            MARBLEHEAD PUBLIC SCHOOLS
                                 School Health Services
                        ADMINISTRATION OF NALOXONE (NARCAN)
                                  Policy and Procedure

Policy:
In order to recognize and respond to potential life-threatening opioid overdose, Marblehead
Public Schools will maintain a plan for addressing potentially life-threatening opioid overdoses.
To treat a case of suspected opioid overdose in a school setting, any school nurse may
administer Naloxone during an emergency, to any student, staff or visitor suspected of having
an opioid-related drug overdose, regardless of if there is a previous history of opioid abuse.
Nasal Naloxone will be maintained in each school building in the health office.

Background:
Recognizing that fatal and non-fatal overdoses from opioids play an increasing role in the
mortality and morbidity of Massachusetts residents, the Massachusetts Department of Public
Health launched the Overdose Education and Naloxone Distribution (OEND) prevention
program using intranasal Naloxone in an attempt to reverse this trend. Naloxone is an opioid
antagonist, meaning, it displaces the opioid from receptors in the brain. An overdose occurs
because the opioid is on the same receptor site in the brain that is responsible for breathing.
Rapid administration of Naloxone can be lifesaving in individuals overdosing due to opioids.

Since 2010, the number of overdose deaths in Essex County has more than quadrupled.

Typically, Naloxone acts dramatically, allowing slowed or absent breathing to resume. It is both
safe and effective and has no potential for abuse. Naloxone has been used by paramedics in
ambulances and by emergency room clinicians for decades.

Signs and Symptoms of Opioid Overdose:
School nurses may administer Naloxone to any student, staff member or visitor in
the event of respiratory depression, unresponsiveness or respiratory arrest, when an opioid
overdose is suspected. The following are signs of an opioid overdose:

-      Blue skin tinge-usually lips and fingertips show first
-      Limp body
-      Pale face
-      Pulse is slow, erratic or not present
-      Vomiting
-      Choking sounds, gurgling, snoring/gasping noise
-      Breathing is very slow, irregular or has stopped
-      Unresponsive




Updated: 2/6/2023
Procedure:
    1. Recognize a potential overdose
           a. Activate EMS via Medical Emergency Response Plan. 911 must be called in all
               potential overdose situations.
    2. Assessment
           a. When a patient is suspected of an opioid overdose the nurse will conduct an
               initial assessment of the level of consciousness and respiratory status.
               a) For individuals with no pulse: initiate CPR per BLS guidelines.
               b) For individuals with a pulse but who are not breathing, establish an airway and
                   perform rescue breathing using a face mask or shield.
               c) For individuals who have a pulse and are breathing, assess if there is
               depression of the respiratory status as evidenced by:
                         - a very low respiration rate
                         - interpretation of pulse oximetry measurement, if immediately available
               d) Assess for decrease in level of consciousness as evidenced by:
                         - difficult to arouse(responds to physical stimuli but does not
                         communicate
                            or follow commands, may move spontaneously) or
                         - unable to arouse (minimal or no response to noxious stimuli, does not
                            communicate or follow commands).
               e) Nurse determines need for Naloxone administration
4. Administration: Intranasal administration of Naloxone
       a. Exclusion criteria for nasal naloxone is nasal trauma and epistaxis. Naloxone should
       not be administered if there is a known hypersensitivity to Naloxone.
       b. Give Naloxone
                    - Push tip into one nostril of individual’s nose
                    - Push pump to release dose
                    - Continue rescue breathing or CPR as needed
                    - If no response, an additional second dose may be administered in other
                         nostril after 3-5 minutes
                    - Monitor until EMS arrives
                    - Place patient in the recovery position and stay with the victim. (The
                         recovery position is when you lay the person on his or her side, his or her
                         body is supported by a bent knee and his or her face is turned to the
                         side.)
5. Additional Considerations:
    a. Due to potential opioid withdrawal with the use of naloxone:
           - The patient may be angry or combative when he or she wakes up, therefore, it is
               important to stand back from the victim and, if possible, have a second adult
               present.
           - Potential adverse effects include nausea, diarrhea, abdominal cramping,
               irritability, restlessness, muscle or bone pain, tearing or nose running, and
               craving of an opioid.
    b. Naloxone wears off in thirty (30) to ninety (90) minutes.

Updated: 2/6/2023
6. Transport to the nearest hospital via EMS. Individuals who receive a dose of Naloxone must
        be sent to the emergency room for follow-up.
7. Follow-up:
    a. If the administration was to a student, the school nurse will notify student
        support services and student services will provide substance abuse prevention
        resources to the student and family, as appropriate.
    b. If possible, communicate with family/ individual within 24 hours to learn the outcome of
        the patient.
8. Documentation: Record encounter in student/staff school health record and/or on an
incident report. The recording should list the dose, route of administration, and time of
delivery. It should include the patient presentation and response to Naloxone.

Training:
The district lead nurse will provide a training review and informational update annually to ensure
that nurses understand this medication, including its uses and side-effects.

Procurement:
The district lead nurse or designee will be responsible for the procurement of Naloxone. The
medication will be acquired through the State Office of Pharmacy, with a prescription and
standing order (APPENDIX A) from the District's School Physician.

Storage:
Naloxone should be stored in a secure, but unlocked, location, at room temperature and away
from direct sunlight. It will be clearly marked and stored in an accessible place at the discretion
of the school nurse. The school nurse will regularly inspect the Naloxone to check the expiration
date of the box or vial and check the condition of the mucosal atomization devices.

Disposal:
The nurse will use proper disposal of used Naloxone administration delivery
systems in accordance with any applicable policies of the Massachusetts Department of
Public Health, Division of Food and Drugs.




LEGAL REFS.: 105 CMR 210.000

CROSS REF.: JLC, Student Health Services and Requirements
            JLCD, Administration of Medication to Students
SOURCE:




Updated: 2/6/2023
                                         APPENDIX A
                                   Marblehead Public Schools
                                        Standing Order
                                    Nasal Naloxone (Narcan)

Indications: Naloxone should be given to any person who shows signs of an opioid overdose
or when an overdose is suspected by the registered nurse. The following are signs of an opioid
overdose:

-      Blue skin tinge-usually lips and fingertips show first
-      Limp body
-      Pale face
-      Pulse is slow, erratic or not present
-      Vomiting
-      Choking sounds, gurgling, snoring/gasping noise
-      Breathing is very slow, irregular or has stopped
-      Unresponsive

Dosage/ Directions: 4 mg spray of Naloxone HCl 4mg/0.1 mL in pre-filled nasal spray
applicator PRN for suspected opioid overdose.
-       Place tip into nostril
-       Push pump to administer dose
Naloxone nasal spray is for intranasal use only. Seek emergency medical care immediately
after use. Administer additional doses of naloxone nasal spray, using a new nasal spray with
each dose, if the patient does not respond or responds and then relapses into respiratory
depression. Additional supportive and/or resuscitative measures to be taken while awaiting EMS

Cautions: The victim may be angry or combative when he or she wakes up, therefore, it is
important to stand back from the victim and, if possible, have a second adult present. Due to
potential acute opioid withdrawal, adverse effects include nausea, diarrhea, abdominal
cramping, irritability, restlessness, muscle or bone pain, tearing or nose running, and craving of
an opioid. Naloxone wears off in thirty (30) to ninety (90) minutes. Contraindicated in patients
with nasal trauma or epistaxis.

Nursing Actions: Emergency medical care must be obtained following Naloxone
administration. Continue rescue breaths and/ or CPR as needed. Continue to monitor until EMS
arrives. Place in recovery position if able


School Physician Name: ____________________________________

School Physician Signature: __________________________________


Updated: 2/6/2023
Date: ____________________




Updated: 2/6/2023
