                         Marblehead High School

       Daniel Bauer                                                         Lindsay Donaldson
        Principal                                                           Assistant Principal
                                        2 Humphrey Street                    Michele Carlson
                               Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945-2290         Assistant Principal
                                          (781) 639-3100
                                        (781) 639-3105 fax


Memo: MHS Anonymous Donation
Subject: Performing Arts Music April Trip to Florida
Date: 3/28/23
From: Dan Bauer

This request is to accept an anonymous donation to the Performing Arts Music Trip to Florida.

The donation amount is $2,000 and will be earmarked to defray the total cost of the trip.

Thank you!
                MARBLEHEAD PUBLIC SCHOOLS’ EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT FOR
                                     PRINCIPAL

This Employment Contract (CONTRACT) is made between the Marblehead Public Schools,
acting by and through the Superintendent of Schools (Superintendent) and Michele Carlson
hereinafter referred to as the "Parties."

In consideration of the promise herein contained, the parties hereto mutually agree as follows:

1.     EMPLOYMENT: The Marblehead Public Schools (hereinafter "MPS") hereby offers to
       employ Michele Carlson as Position of PRINCIPAL (hereinafter “PRINCIPAL ") within the
       public schools of Marblehead. The PRINCIPAL shall be employed as the PRINCIPAL OF
       the HIGH SCHOOL in the District. The PRINCIPAL hereby accepts employment on the
       terms and conditions contained in this CONTRACT.

2.     ASSIGNMENT: At the inception of this CONTRACT, the PRINCIPAL is hereby assigned
       to the MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL DISTRICT. The Superintendent of Schools, in his/her sole
       discretion, following consultation with the PRINCIPAL, may reassign or transfer the
       PRINCIPAL to another PRINCIPAL position or administrator's position within the MPS and
       said transfer will not be considered a demotion.

3.     TERM: The PRINCIPAL shall be employed for two years commencing July 1, 2023,
       through June 30, 2025. Renewal and extension of this CONTRACT and PRINCIPAL’S
       employment shall be in accordance with the provisions of M.G.L. c. 71, §41. This Section 3
       shall constitute satisfactory notice from the Superintendent sixty (60) days prior to the
       expiration date of this CONTRACT that this CONTRACT shall not be renewed beyond the
       expiration date of June 30, 2025, except by an agreement signed by the parties prior to the
       commencement of such sixty (60) day period. If no such written agreement is reached, the
       terms of this contract shall extend for one year.

4.     COMPENSATION: The PRINCIPAL shall be paid an annual salary, according to the
       following schedule:

      Contract Years                                              Base Salary
      July 1, 2023 - June 30, 2025                                $ 140,000 Annually
     The PRINCIPAL’S base salary shall be subject to withholdings for state and federal taxes and
     other withholding required by law or authorized by the PRINCIPAL. The base shall be pro-
     rated for work of less than a full Contract Year. The base salary shall be payable in equal
     installments in accordance with the procedures for payment of other PRINCIPALS and/or
     Department Heads in the MPS. For the purposes of this CONTRACT, a Contract Year is July
     1st to the following June 30th.

     Any adjustment in the PRINCIPAL’S base salary made during the life of this CONTRACT
     shall be in the form of a written amendment signed by the Superintendent, and such
     amendment shall become part of this CONTRACT, but such amendment shall in no respect
     constitute or be deemed the entry of the parties into a new CONTRACT and shall in no respect
     extend or alter the termination date of this CONTRACT.

5.   BENEFITS: The PRINCIPAL shall receive benefits, including but not limited to sick leave,
     vacation leave, and personal leave benefits, in accordance with the policies of the Marblehead
     School Committee ("Committee") regarding working conditions and benefits for PRINCIPALS
     and as such may be modified from time to time by the Committee. The Committee may add to,
     eliminate, or change these benefits from time to time in its sole discretion. The PRINCIPAL will
     be subject to all requirements and restrictions for such benefits including eligibility and notice
     requirements and usage restrictions. All sick leave, vacation and personal leave benefits shall
     be prorated based on start and end date of the administrator.

     (a) Vacation: Without limiting any provisions in this Section 5, PRINCIPAL shall be entitled
         to twenty-five (25) days of vacation per Contract Year, to be taken, at a time or times
         approved by the Superintendent. Such days shall be accrued at the rate of 2.08 days per
         month worked. A maximum of ten (10) days may be carried over from Contract Year to
         Contract Year, so that at any one time the maximum number of vacation days which are
         available shall not exceed thirty-five (35).

     (b) Sick Leave: The PRINCIPAL is entitled to eighteen (18) sick days annually. Unused sick
         days will accumulate to a maximum total of ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY (180) days
         while the PRINCIPAL is employed by MPS. After taking four (4) consecutive sick leave
         days, the PRINCIPAL may be required to produce a document signed by a
         physician/provider substantiating the basis for said absences and for any continuing
         absences.

     (c) Personal Leave: The PRINCIPAL will be entitled to up to two (2) days, per year, non-
         cumulative. In no event shall any such days, if unused, carry over to the next Contract Year.
         No personal days per this paragraph shall be requested to extend a holiday weekend or
         school vacation period without Superintendent approval for extenuating circumstances. All
         requests for Personal Leave shall be made to the Superintendent or their designee and are
         subject to Superintendent approval.

     (d) Parental Leave. MPS, upon request, shall grant a parental leave of absence for the birth or
         adoption of a child of no more than eight (8) calendar weeks’ duration for employees who
         have been employed for at least 90 days in the district. Such leave shall be unpaid except to
         the extent of actual disability, supported by a doctor’s certificate, which shall be treated as
         paid sick leave. An application for leave must be made at least thirty (30) calendar days
         prior to the anticipated date of departure and must include a statement of intention to return
   and the approximate date on which return is expected. This notice provision may be waived
   by the Superintendent in the event of extenuating circumstances.

(e) Other Leave: Any other leave of absence not otherwise provided for in this Contract
    including, but not limited to bereavement leave and jury duty must be made in writing to the
    Superintendent as soon as possible. Bereavement leave may be granted for up to five
    consecutive days for immediate family members and one day for non-immediate family
    members. Subject to the law, the granting or denial of any such leave, as well as the terms
    thereof shall be subject to the approval of the Superintendent.

(f) Holidays: Paid Holidays include the following:
    • New Year's Day
    • Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
    • President's Day
    • Patriots Day
    • Memorial Day
    • Juneteenth
    • Independence Day
    • Labor Day
    • Indigenous Peoples Day
    • Veterans Day
    • Thanksgiving Day & Friday after Thanksgiving
    • Christmas Day
(g) Continuing Education - Tuition Reimbursement: The PRINCIPAL shall be eligible for
    tuition reimbursement, subject to the following terms and conditions:
                A. The course, seminar, workshop, or special program must be approved by the
                   Superintendent. Requests for approval must be made in writing, on a form
                   supplied by the Superintendent, in advance of the start of the course,
                   seminar, workshop or special program.
               B. The course must be recognized for college credit at an accredited college or
                   university and the PRINCIPAL must submit written evidence of such
                   recognition from said college or university. The written evidence must be
                   submitted in advance of the start of the course.
              C. The PRINCIPAL shall pay the entire tuition cost of approved courses and
                  will be reimbursed under the following terms and conditions:
                          a. The PRINCIPAL must obtain a grade of B- or better and present
                              satisfactory evidence thereof to the Superintendent. In the event
                              the course is not graded in such fashion, the equivalent of B- or
                              better shall be satisfactory.
                          b. A receipted copy of the tuition bill must be submitted as evidence
                              of the cost of the course.
                          c. Not more than six (6) such credits shall be reimbursed in a fiscal year
                              and the total reimbursement shall not exceed $2,000 per employee
                          d. Audited courses will not be reimbursed.
(h) Professional Association Dues: The MPS shall allow the PRINCIPAL up to a maximum
    of one thousand dollars ($1,000) per Contract Year for payment of dues, membership fees,
    and/or conference costs to professional associations or organizations with the prior approval
          of the Superintendent.
      (i) Group Health Insurance & Life Insurance: The PRINCIPAL will be eligible to subscribe
          to one of the group health insurance plans and to the life insurance plan offered through the
          Town of Marblehead ("Town") and generally available to other employees in the MPS at
          the same premium contribution rate in effect for other non-unionized administrators in the
          MPS. The PRINCIPAL acknowledges and agrees that such plans, coverage, co-payments,
          deductibles, and premium contribution rates may change from time to time at the discretion
          of the Town.

6.    DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES: The PRINCIPAL shall faithfully and effectively
      perform the duties contained in the job description of PRINCIPAL. The Superintendent may
      modify the job description of the PRINCIPAL from time to time, at the Superintendent's sole
      discretion. The PRINCIPAL recognizes that their responsibilities and conduct are not
      determined by prescribed hours and conditions. As a result, the PRINCIPAL will perform the
      directed and implied duties of their position as determined by the Superintendent and will expend
      the time and effort necessary to effectively achieve the goals and purposes of the MPS. The
      PRINCIPAL acknowledges and agrees that their duties and position are exempt from the
      overtime requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act.

7.    CERTIFICATION/LICENSURE. The PRINCIPAL represents that they hold a
      Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education license required for the
      position. Failure to have proper licensure will cause this contract to become null and void.
      Throughout the term of this contract, the PRINCIPAL shall furnish and maintain a valid and
      appropriate certification qualifying them to act as an Administrator in the Commonwealth of
      Massachusetts.

8.    ANNUAL WORK SCHEDULE: The PRINCIPAL shall work twelve months (260 days)
      per Contract Year (pro-rated where applicable), on the same schedule as the Central Office
      Administrators, except for legal holidays recognized by the Committee (listed herein) vacation
      leave and other leave available to the PRINCIPAL under Committee policy or this
      CONTRACT.

9.    PERFORMANCE: The PRINCIPAL shall fulfill all aspects of this CONTRACT. Any
      exception hereto shall be by mutual agreement between the PRINCIPAL and the Superintendent
      in writing. The Superintendent shall evaluate the performance of the PRINCIPAL in accordance
      with 603 CMR 35.00.

10.   OTHER PROFESSIONAL DUTIES: The PRINCIPAL may accept speaking, writing,
      lecturing, consultant work or other engagements of a professional nature, provided they do not
      derogate from his/her duties as PRINCIPAL for MPS, the engagement does not interfere with
      or detract from his/her work as PRINCIPAL, and the PRINCIPAL has received prior approval
      of the Superintendent. The PRINCIPAL agrees that such activities shall be limited to not more
      than three (3) days in the aggregate per Contract Year.

11.   EARLY TERMINATION BY THE PRINCIPAL: In the event that the PRINCIPAL desires
      to terminate this CONTRACT before the term of service has expired, the PRINCIPAL may do
      so by providing at least ninety (90) days written notice of his intent to terminate this
      CONTRACT to the Superintendent.
12.   TERMINATION/SUSPENSION BY THE SUPERINTENDENT FOR CAUSE AFTER
      THE FIRST 90 DAYS. The Superintendent may suspend, demote, or dismiss the PRINCIPAL
      during the term of this contract for good cause. As used herein, “good cause” shall mean any
      grounds put forth by the Superintendent which are not arbitrary, irrational, unreasonable, in bad
      faith or not relevant to the sound operation of the school system. In the event this contract is
      terminated for good cause, the PRINCIPAL shall be so notified in writing. Upon request of the
      PRINCIPAL, he/she may meet with the Superintendent to review the decision. It is understood
      and agreed that non-reappointment of the PRINCIPAL by the District upon the expiration of this
      Agreement, or any renewal or extension thereof, shall not be considered a dismissal. A transfer
      under section 4 of this contract shall not be considered a demotion.

      In the event of early termination of this CONTRACT for any reason including, but not limited
      to resignation of the PRINCIPAL, dismissal or demotion of the PRINCIPAL, or layoff of the
      PRINCIPAL, MPS shall not be required to pay and the PRINCIPAL shall not be entitled to
      receive salary payments and benefits payable after the effective date of the PRINCIPAL’S
      separation from employment or demotion, regardless of the reason for such separation or
      demotion. The PRINCIPAL may request to use his/her accrued, unused vacation days prior to
      his/her separation from employment and/or the Superintendent may schedule the PRINCIPAL
      for vacation days prior to the PRINCIPAL’S separation of employment.

13.   SUSPENSION WITHOUT PAY. The Superintendent may suspend the PRINCIPAL
      without pay in accordance with the provisions of M.G.L. chapter 71, section 42D.
14.   MTRS RETIREMENT: As required by law, the PRINCIPAL shall be a member of the
      Massachusetts Teachers' Retirement System, if eligible, or the Marblehead Contributory
      Retirement System, and shall be subject to all the obligations and rights associated therewith.
      Required retirement deductions shall be made from the PRINCIPAL’S pay.

15.   ENTIRE AGREEMENT: This CONTRACT embodies the whole agreement between the
      MPS and the PRINCIPAL and there are no inducements, promises, terms, and conditions or
      obligations made or entered into by either party other than those contained herein. This
      CONTRACT may not be changed except by a writing signed by the parties.
16.   SEVERABILITY: It is understood and agreed by the parties that if any part, term or provision
      of this CONTRACT is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal or in conflict with
      any law of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the validity of the remaining portions shall not
      be affected, and the rights and obligations of the parties shall be construed and enforced as if the
      CONTRACT did not contain the particular part, term, or provisions held to be invalid.
17.   GOVERNING LAW: This CONTRACT shall be interpreted, enforced, governed, and
      construed under and in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
18.   DUPLICATE ORIGINALS: This CONTRACT shall be executed in two counterparts, each of
      which shall be deemed to be an original, and both of which taken together shall be deemed one
      and the same instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEROF, the parties have hereunto signed and sealed this CONTRACT and in
duplicate thereof this ____ day of ________ the year of 2023.

_______________________                     ______________
Superintendent of Schools                   Date


______________________                      _______________
PRINCIPAL                                   Date
                MARBLEHEAD PUBLIC SCHOOLS’ EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT FOR
                 ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT OF TEACHING AND LEANRING

This Employment Contract (CONTRACT) is made between the Marblehead Public Schools,
acting by and through the Superintendent of Schools (Superintendent) and Julia Ferreira
hereinafter referred to as the "Parties."

In consideration of the promise herein contained, the parties hereto mutually agree as follows:

1.     EMPLOYMENT: The Marblehead Public Schools (hereinafter "MPS") hereby offers to
       employ Julia Ferreira as Position OF ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT OF TEACHING
       AND LEARNING (hereinafter “ASSISTANT SUPERINTEDNENT") within the public
       schools of Marblehead. The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall be employed as the
       ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT of the District. The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT
       hereby accepts employment on the terms and conditions contained in this CONTRACT.

2.     ASSIGNMENT: At the inception of this CONTRACT, the ASSISTANT
       SUPERINTENDENT is hereby assigned to the MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL DISTRICT. The
       Superintendent of Schools, in his/her sole discretion, following consultation with the
       ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, may reassign or transfer the ASSISTANT
       SUPERINTENDENT to another SUPERINTENDENT position or administrator's position
       within the MPS and said transfer will not be considered a demotion.

3.     TERM: The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall be employed for two years
       commencing July 1, 2023, through June 30, 2025. Renewal and extension of this
       CONTRACT and ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT'S employment shall be in accordance
       with the provisions of M.G.L. c. 71, §41. This Section 3 shall constitute satisfactory notice
       from the Superintendent ninety (90) days prior to the expiration date of this CONTRACT that
       this CONTRACT shall not be renewed beyond the expiration date of June 30, 2025, except by
       an agreement signed by the parties prior to the commencement of such ninety (90) day period.
       If no such written agreement is reached, the terms of this contract shall extend for one year.

4.     COMPENSATION: The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall be paid an annual
       salary, according to the following schedule:

      Contract Years                                              Base Salary
      July 1, 2023- June 30, 2025                                 $ 135,000 Annually
     The salary for the second year of the contract shall be determined by the Superintendent,
     acting on behalf of the COMMITTEE, in accordance with applicable DISTRICT policies but
     shall not be less than $135,000. The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT’S base salary shall
     be subject to withholdings for state and federal taxes and other withholding required by law
     or authorized by the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT. The base shall be pro-rated for
     work of less than a full Contract Year. The base salary shall be payable in equal installments
     in accordance with the procedures for payment of other ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT
     and/or Administrators in the MPS. For the purposes of this CONTRACT, a Contract Year is
     July 1st to the following June 30th.

     Any adjustment in the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT'S base salary made during the life
     of this CONTRACT shall be in the form of a written amendment signed by the Superintendent,
     and such amendment shall become part of this CONTRACT, but such amendment shall in no
     respect constitute or be deemed the entry of the parties into a new CONTRACT and shall in no
     respect extend or alter the termination date of this CONTRACT.

5.   BENEFITS: The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall receive benefits, including but not
     limited to sick leave, vacation leave, and personal leave benefits, in accordance with the policies
     of the Marblehead School Committee ("Committee") regarding working conditions and benefits
     for ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENTS and as such may be modified from time to time by the
     Committee. The Committee may add to, eliminate, or change these benefits from time to time in
     its sole discretion. The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT will be subject to all requirements
     and restrictions for such benefits including eligibility and notice requirements and usage
     restrictions. All sick leave, vacation and personal leave benefits shall be prorated based on
     start and end date of the administrator.

     (a) Vacation: Without limiting any provisions in this Section 5, ASSISTANT
         SUPERINTENDENT shall be entitled to twenty-five (25) days of vacation per Contract
         Year, to be taken, at a time or times approved by the Superintendent. Such days shall be
         accrued at the rate of 2.08 days per month worked. A maximum of ten (10) days may be
         carried over from Contract Year to Contract Year, so that at any one time the maximum
         number of vacation days which are available shall not exceed thirty-five (35).

     (b) Sick Leave: The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT is entitled to eighteen (18) sick days
         annually. Unused sick days will accumulate to a maximum total of ONE HUNDRED AND
         EIGHTY (180) days while the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT is employed by MPS.
         After taking four (4) consecutive sick leave days, the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT
         may be required to produce a document signed by a physician/provider substantiating the
         basis for said absences and for any continuing absences.

     (c) Personal Leave: The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT will be entitled to up to two (2)
         days, per year, non-cumulative. In no event shall any such days, if unused, carry over to the
         next Contract Year. No personal days per this paragraph shall be requested to extend a
         holiday weekend or school vacation period without Superintendent approval for extenuating
         circumstances. All requests for Personal Leave shall be made to the Superintendent or their
         designee and are subject to Superintendent approval.
(d) Parental Leave. MPS, upon request, shall grant a parental leave of absence for the birth or
    adoption of a child of no more than eight (8) calendar weeks’ duration for employees who
    have been employed for at least 90 days in the district. Such leave shall be unpaid except to
    the extent of actual disability, supported by a doctor’s certificate, which shall be treated as
    paid sick leave. An application for leave must be made at least thirty (30) calendar days
    prior to the anticipated date of departure and must include a statement of intention to return
    and the approximate date on which return is expected. This notice provision may be waived
    by the Superintendent in the event of extenuating circumstances.

(e) Other Leave: Any other leave of absence not otherwise provided for in this Contract
    including, but not limited to bereavement leave and jury duty must be made in writing to the
    Superintendent as soon as possible. Bereavement leave may be granted for up to five
    consecutive days for immediate family members and one day for non-immediate family
    members. Subject to the law, the granting or denial of any such leave, as well as the terms
    thereof shall be subject to the approval of the Superintendent.

(f) Holidays: Paid Holidays include the following:
    • New Year's Day
    • Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
    • President's Day
    • Patriots Day
    • Memorial Day
    • Juneteenth
    • Independence Day
    • Labor Day
    • Indigenous Peoples Day
    • Veterans Day
    • Thanksgiving Day & Friday after Thanksgiving
    • Christmas Day
(g) Continuing Education - Tuition Reimbursement: The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT
    shall be eligible for tuition reimbursement, subject to the following terms and conditions:
                A. The course, seminar, workshop, or special program must be approved by the
                    Superintendent. Requests for approval must be made in writing, on a form
                    supplied by the Superintendent, in advance of the start of the course,
                    seminar, workshop or special program.
                B. The course must be recognized for college credit at an accredited college or
                    university and the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT must submit written
                    evidence of such recognition from said college or university. The written
                    evidence must be submitted in advance of the start of the course.
              C. The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall pay the entire tuition cost of
                 approved courses and will be reimbursed under the following terms and
                 conditions:
                         a. The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT must obtain a grade of
                             B- or better and present satisfactory evidence thereof to the
                             Superintendent. In the event the course is not graded in such
                             fashion, the equivalent of B- or better shall be satisfactory.
                               b. A receipted copy of the tuition bill must be submitted as evidence
                                   of the cost of the course.
                               c. Not more than six (6) such credits shall be reimbursed in a fiscal year
                                   and the total reimbursement shall not exceed $2,000 per employee
                               d. Audited courses will not be reimbursed.

     (h) Professional Association Dues: The MPS shall allow the ASSISTANT
         SUPERINTENDENT up to a maximum of one thousand dollars ($1,000) per Contract Year
         for payment of dues, membership fees, and/or conference costs to professional associations
         or organizations with the prior approval of the Superintendent.
     (i) Group Health Insurance & Life Insurance: The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT will
         be eligible to subscribe to one of the group health insurance plans and to the life insurance
         plan offered through the Town of Marblehead ("Town") and generally available to other
         employees in the MPS at the same premium contribution rate in effect for other non-
         unionized administrators in the MPS. The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT
         acknowledges and agrees that such plans, coverage, co-payments, deductibles, and
         premium contribution rates may change from time to time at the discretion of the Town.

6.   DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES: The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall
     faithfully and effectively perform the duties contained in the job description of ASSISTANT
     SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent may modify the job description of the ASSISTANT
     SUPERINTENDENT from time to time, at the Superintendent's sole discretion. The
     ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT recognizes that their responsibilities and conduct are not
     determined by prescribed hours and conditions. As a result, the ASSISTANT
     SUPERINTENDENT will perform the directed and implied duties of their position as
     determined by the Superintendent and will expend the time and effort necessary to effectively
     achieve the goals and purposes of the MPS. The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT
     acknowledges and agrees that their duties and position are exempt from the overtime
     requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act.

7.   CERTIFICATION/LICENSURE. The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT represents that
     they hold a Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education license
     required for the position. Failure to have proper licensure will cause this contract to become
     null and void. Throughout the term of this contract, the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT
     shall furnish and maintain a valid and appropriate certification qualifying them to act as an
     Administrator in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

8.   ANNUAL WORK SCHEDULE: The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall work
     twelve months (260 days) per Contract Year (pro-rated where applicable), on the same
     schedule as the Central Office Administrators, except for legal holidays recognized by the
     Committee (listed herein) vacation leave and other leave available to the ASSISTANT
     SUPERINTENDENT under Committee policy or this CONTRACT.

9.   PERFORMANCE: The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall fulfill all aspects of this
     CONTRACT. Any exception hereto shall be by mutual agreement between the ASSISTANT
     SUPERINTENDENT and the Superintendent in writing. The Superintendent shall evaluate the
     performance of the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT in accordance with 603 CMR 35.00.
10.   OTHER PROFESSIONAL DUTIES: The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT may accept
      speaking, writing, lecturing, consultant work or other engagements of a professional nature,
      provided they do not derogate from his/her duties as ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT for
      MPS, the engagement does not interfere with or detract from his/her work as ASSISTANT
      SUPERINTENDENT, and the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT has received prior approval
      of the Superintendent. The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT agrees that such activities shall
      be limited to not more than three (3) days in the aggregate per Contract Year.


11.   EARLY TERMINATION BY THE ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT: In the event that
      the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT desires to terminate this CONTRACT before the term
      of service has expired, the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT may do so by providing at least
      ninety (90) days written notice of his intent to terminate this CONTRACT to the Superintendent.

12.   TERMINATION/SUSPENSION BY THE SUPERINTENDENT FOR CAUSE AFTER
      THE FIRST 90 DAYS. The Superintendent may suspend, demote, or dismiss the ASSISTANT
      SUPERINTENDENT during the term of this contract for good cause. As used herein, “good
      cause” shall mean any grounds put forth by the Superintendent which are not arbitrary, irrational,
      unreasonable, in bad faith or not relevant to the sound operation of the school system. In the
      event this contract is terminated for good cause, the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall
      be so notified in writing. Upon request of the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, he/she may
      meet with the Superintendent to review the decision. It is understood and agreed that non-
      reappointment of the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT by the District upon the expiration of
      this Agreement, or any renewal or extension thereof, shall not be considered a dismissal. A
      transfer under section 4 of this contract shall not be considered a demotion.

      In the event of early termination of this CONTRACT for any reason including, but not limited
      to resignation of the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, dismissal or demotion of the
      ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, or layoff of the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT,
      MPS shall not be required to pay and the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall not be
      entitled to receive salary payments and benefits payable after the effective date of the
      ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT’S separation from employment or demotion, regardless of
      the reason for such separation or demotion. The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT may
      request to use his/her accrued, unused vacation days prior to his/her separation from
      employment and/or the Superintendent may schedule the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT
      for vacation days prior to the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT’S separation of employment.

13.   SUSPENSION WITHOUT PAY. The Superintendent may suspend the ASSISTANT
      SUPERINTENDENT without pay in accordance with the provisions of M.G.L. chapter 71,
      section 42D.
14.   MTRS RETIREMENT: As required by law, the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall be
      a member of the Massachusetts Teachers' Retirement System, if eligible, or the Marblehead
      Contributory Retirement System, and shall be subject to all the obligations and rights associated
      therewith. Required retirement deductions shall be made from the ASSISTANT
      SUPERINTENDENT’S pay.
15.   ENTIRE AGREEMENT: This CONTRACT embodies the whole agreement between the
      MPS and the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT and there are no inducements, promises, terms,
      and conditions or obligations made or entered into by either party other than those contained
      herein. This CONTRACT may not be changed except by a writing signed by the parties.

16.   SEVERABILITY: It is understood and agreed by the parties that if any part, term or provision
      of this CONTRACT is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal or in conflict with
      any law of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the validity of the remaining portions shall not
      be affected, and the rights and obligations of the parties shall be construed and enforced as if the
      CONTRACT did not contain the particular part, term, or provisions held to be invalid.

17.   GOVERNING LAW: This CONTRACT shall be interpreted, enforced, governed, and
      construed under and in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
18.   DUPLICATE ORIGINALS: This CONTRACT shall be executed in two counterparts, each of
      which shall be deemed to be an original, and both of which taken together shall be deemed one
      and the same instrument.

IN WITNESS WHEROF, the parties have hereunto signed and sealed this CONTRACT and in
duplicate thereof this Xth day of April the year of 2023.

_______________________                             ______________
Superintendent of Schools                           Date


______________________                              _______________
Assistant Superintendent                            Date
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendent Evaluation
    The Indicator Rubric for Superintendent Evaluation is an evaluation tool intended to support a shared understanding of effective leadership
                                       practice between a superintendent and school committee members.
Designed around the 21 Indicators from the Standards of Effective Administrative Leadership (603 CMR 35.04), the Indicator Rubric includes
descriptions of a superintendent’s practice for each Indicator and articulates the specific responsibilities that a school committee may be expected
to reasonably evaluate. This is a significant departure from the more detailed, element-level rubrics associated with other educator roles in the
model system for educator evaluation.
While this structural difference results in a shorter, less complex evaluation tool, it does not simplify the responsibilities of a superintendent. All 21
Indicators associated with the four Standards of Effective Administrative Leadership remain in place, and the superintendent is still expected to
meet expectations associated with each Standard, typically assessed by focusing on one to two Indicators per Standard each year. Describing
practice at the Indicator level rather than at the element level acknowledges the following unique components of an educator evaluation process
conducted by a school committee:
     The Role of the School Committee: The school committee’s role is governance, rather than management. A school committee thereby
       focuses on the what and the why (governance) of superintendent leadership, rather than the how (management). The Indicator Rubric does
       the same.
     The Composition of a School Committee: The school committee as “evaluator” is comprised of multiple individuals, rather than a single
       evaluator. This demands consensus building, a process made exponentially easier when focused around fewer descriptors of practice.
     The Focus of a School Committee: School committee members, many of whom are often non-educators, focus primarily on the outcome of
       a superintendent’s work, rather than the details of implementation. The Indicator Rubric guides committee members to maintain this focus.
     A Public Process. The superintendent’s evaluation is the only educator evaluation conducted in public. The Indicator Rubric includes the
       practices to which a committee can reasonably be expected to have access or insight, such that the public process of collecting and
       evaluating evidence may be conducted with transparency and integrity.
The 2019-2020 Rubric Pilot. DESE is supporting a year-long pilot of the draft Indicator Rubric to evaluate its use and impact on the superintendent
evaluation process. The objectives of the pilot include:
   9 Assess the implementation of the rubric by superintendents and school committees. Is it accessible and relevant to all involved?
   9 Assess the impact of the rubric. Does it promote a comprehensive evaluation of superintendent practice? Does it support consistency and
     transparency in aspects of the evaluation process, including analyzing evidence, providing feedback, and using professional judgment to
     determine ratings?
DESE will collect input from pilot districts through a qualitative survey and interview process. For more information on participating as a pilot
district, please contact Claire Abbott at cabbott@doe.mass.edu.
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents
                                                              STANDARD I: Instructional Leadership
  The education leader promotes the learning and growth of all students and the success of all staff by cultivating a shared
                     vision that makes powerful teaching and learning the central focus of schooling.
                                  Unsatisfactory                     Needs Improvement                             Proficient                              Exemplary
                        Does not ensure the                    Ensures that most instructional       Monitors and assesses progress           Empowers administrators to
                        implementation of standards-           staff implement standards-based       across all schools and content areas     ensure all instructional staff
                        based units of instruction across      units of instruction consisting of    to ensure that all instructional staff   collaboratively plan, adapt as
                        the district (e.g. fails to provide    well-structured lessons, but          implement effective and rigorous         needed, and implement
                        adequate resources or training).       curricula in some schools or          standards-based units of instruction     standards-based units comprised
                                                               content areas lack appropriate        consisting of well-structured lessons    of well-structured lessons aligned
 I-A: Curriculum
                                                               rigor or alignment to state           with measurable outcomes.                to state standards and local
                                                               standards.                                                                     curricula. Continually monitors
                                                                                                                                              and assesses progress, and
                                                                                                                                              provides additional supports as
                                                                                                                                              needed. Models this practice for
                                                                                                                                              others.
                        Does not ensure that                   Supports instructional practices      Monitors and supports principals         Sets high expectations for the
                        instructional practices across         in some schools or content areas      and instructional staff through          content and quality of instruction
                        schools and content areas reflect      that reflect high expectations,       observations and feedback to ensure      and empowers all administrators
                        high expectations for teaching         engage all students, and are          that instructional practices in all      to do the same, such that
                        and learning, are engaging and         personalized to accommodate           settings reflect high expectations       instructional practices throughout
                        motivating, or meet the diverse        diverse learning styles, needs,       regarding content and quality of         the district are engaging, inclusive,
                        learning of all students; or           interests, and levels of readiness;   effort and work, engage all              and personalized to accommodate
 I-B: Instruction       establishes inappropriately low        but allows lower expectations         students, and are personalized to        diverse learning needs of all
                        expectations for teaching and          and/or insufficiently engaging        accommodate diverse learning             students. Stays informed of new,
                        learning.                              instruction to persist in parts of    styles, needs, interests, and levels     evidenced-based instructional
                                                               the district.                         of readiness.                            practices and provides resources
                                                                                                                                              and supports to implement them
                                                                                                                                              as needed. Monitors principals
                                                                                                                                              and instructional staff in support
                                                                                                                                              of these practices through
                                                                                                                                              observations and feedback.
                                                                                                                                                                                      1
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents
                                 Unsatisfactory                   Needs Improvement                           Proficient                             Exemplary
                        Does not set expectations around    Encourages most principals and       Monitors and supports principals        Empowers teams of administrators
                        or ensure the use of a variety of   administrators to facilitate         and instructional staff through         and instructional staff to use a
                        formal and informal assessment      practices that propel personnel      observations and feedback to ensure     comprehensive system of informal
                        methods throughout the district.    to use a variety of formal and       that all principals and                 and formal assessment methods
                                                            informal methods and                 administrators facilitate practices     to measure each student’s
                                                            assessments to measures student      that propel personnel to use a          learning, growth, and progress
                                                            learning, growth, and                variety of formal and informal          toward achieving state/local
                                                            understanding, but assessment        methods and assessments to              standards, and to use findings to
 I-C: Assessment                                            use and analysis is inconsistent     measure student learning, growth,       adjust instructional practice and
                                                            throughout the district.             and understanding and make              implement appropriate
                                                                                                 necessary adjustments to their          interventions and enhancements
                                                                                                 practice when students are not          for students. Ensures alignment of
                                                                                                 learning.                               assessments to content and grade
                                                                                                                                         level standards, and monitors
                                                                                                                                         administrators’ efforts and
                                                                                                                                         successes in this area. Models this
                                                                                                                                         practice for others.
                        Does not supervise and evaluate     Supervises and evaluates             Provides effective and timely           Provides effective and timely
                        administrators in alignment with    administrators in alignment with     supervision and evaluation of all       supervision and evaluation of all
                        state regulations or contract       state regulations and contract       staff in alignment with state           staff in alignment with state
                        provisions, such that:              provisions, but:                     regulations and contract provisions,    regulations and contract
                         x Administrators’ goals are        x Some administrator goals may       as evidenced by:                        provisions, as evidenced by:
                            neither SMART nor aligned to       not be SMART or aligned to         x Support to all administrators in      x Support to all administrators to
                            school and/or district goals,      school and district priorities;      developing SMART goals aligned          develop and attain SMART
                            and/or                             and/or                               to school and district priorities,      goals aligned to school and
                         x Administrators rarely provide    x Observations of and feedback        x Guidance, support and                   district priorities, and sharing
                            quality supervision and            to staff by other                    monitoring for all administrators       best practices and success with
                            evaluation to other staff;         administrators is inconsistent       to ensure they observe and              the district community;
   I-D: Evaluation          and/or                             or nonspecific; and/or               provide useful feedback to faculty    x Guidance, support and
                         x Administrators are rarely, if    x Observations of and feedback          and staff, and                          monitoring for all
                            ever, observed and provided        to administrators by the           x Frequent observations of and            administrators to ensure they
                            with feedback on their own         superintendent are                   feedback to administrators on           observe and provide useful
                            leadership practice.               inconsistent or nonspecific.         effective leadership practice.          feedback to faculty and staff;
                                                                                                                                          x Frequent observations of and
                                                                                                                                            feedback to administrators on
                                                                                                                                            effective leadership practice.
                                                                                                                                          Models this process through the
                                                                                                                                          superintendent’s own evaluation
                                                                                                                                          process and goals.
                                                                                                                                                                           2
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents
                                  Unsatisfactory                   Needs Improvement                            Proficient                            Exemplary
                         Gathers limited information on      Identifies multiple sources of        Uses multiple sources of evidence       Leads administrator teams in
                         district strengths and weaknesses   evidence related to student           related to student learning,            identifying and using multiple
                         and writes district and annual      learning to assess the district’s     including state, district, and school   sources of evidence including
                         action plans that lack data-        strengths and areas for               assessment results and growth           state, district, and school
                         informed goals.                     improvement, but these data are       data, to inform district goals and      assessment results and growth
                                                             not comprehensive and/or              improve organizational                  data, educator evaluation data,
                                                             analysis is insufficient, such that   performance, educator                   district culture and climate
                                                             district and annual action plans      effectiveness, and student learning.    information, to assess and
                                                             lack focused or measurable goals.     Regularly monitors and shares           communicate the district’s
                                                                                                   progress with the community.            strengths and areas for
 I-E: Data-Informed
                                                                                                   Supports principals to align school     improvement. Involves
 Decision Making
                                                                                                   improvement goals to district plans     stakeholders in the creation of
                                                                                                   and goals.                              district improvement and annual
                                                                                                                                           action plans comprised of
                                                                                                                                           measurable, results-oriented
                                                                                                                                           goals, and empowers principals to
                                                                                                                                           develop and implement similarly
                                                                                                                                           robust and aligned school plans
                                                                                                                                           and goals. Regularly monitors and
                                                                                                                                           shares progress with the
                                                                                                                                           community.
                         Demonstrates expected impact on student learning based on multiple measures of student learning, growth, and achievement, including
                         student progress on common assessments and statewide student growth measures where available.
 I-F: Student Learning   There are no associated performance descriptors for the Student Learning Indicator. For administrators, evidence of impact on student learning
                         based on multiple measures of student learning, growth, and achievement must be taken into account by the evaluator(s) when determining a
                         performance rating for Standard I. Evaluators and educators should identify the most appropriate assessments of student learning and anticipated
                         student learning gains associated with those measures when developing the Educator Plan. For superintendents and other district leaders, multiple
                         measures of student learning might include (but should not be limited to) statewide assessments, assessments from curricular materials used in
                         multiple schools, district-created common assessments, or others measures that provide information about student learning across the district.
                                                                                                                                                                               3
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents
                                                      STANDARD II: Management and Operations
     Promotes the learning and growth of all students and the success of all staff by ensuring a safe, efficient, and effective
            learning environment, using resources to implement appropriate curriculum, staffing, and scheduling.
                                     Unsatisfactory                 Needs Improvement                       Proficient                          Exemplary
                             Fails to establish plans,         Oversees plans, procedures,       Develops and executes effective      Empowers all administrators to
                             procedures, routines, and         routines, and operational         plans, procedures, routines, and     develop and execute effective
                             operational systems that          systems that address the          operational systems to address a     plans, procedures, routines,
                             address the safety, health,       safety, health, and emotional     full range of safety, health, and    and operational systems to
                             and emotional and social          and social needs of students,     emotional and social needs of        address a full range of safety,
                             needs of students throughout      but allows for variation in       students throughout the district,    health, and emotional and
                             the district, such that schools   implementation and/or quality     as evidenced by:                     social needs of all students
                             and other buildings are not       across the district, such that                                         throughout the district, as
                                                                                                 x   orderly and efficient student
                             generally clean, attractive,      not all students have equitable                                        evidenced by:
                                                                                                     entry, dismissal, meals, class
                             welcoming, or safe.               access to clean, safe, and
                                                                                                     transitions, assemblies, and     x   orderly and efficient
                                                               supportive learning
                                                                                                     recess;                              student entry, dismissal,
                                                               environments.
                                                                                                 x   school and district buildings        meals, class transitions,
                                                                                                     that are clean, attractive,          assemblies, and recess;
      II-A. Environment
                                                                                                     welcoming, and safe; and         x   school and district
                                                                                                 x   safe and supportive learning         buildings that are clean,
                                                                                                     environments for all                 attractive, welcoming, and
                                                                                                     students.                            safe; and
                                                                                                                                      x   safe and supportive
                                                                                                                                          learning environments for
                                                                                                                                          all students.
                                                                                                                                      Assesses efficacy using
                                                                                                                                      feedback from students, staff,
                                                                                                                                      and families, and other data
                                                                                                                                      sources, and makes
                                                                                                                                      adjustments as necessary.
                                                                                                                                      Models this practice for others.
                                                                                                                                                                         4
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents
                                      Unsatisfactory                 Needs Improvement                        Proficient                           Exemplary
                                                                                                   Monitors and supports the            Ensures a districtwide system
                              Does not implement any            Oversees processes for
                                                                                                   implementation of a cohesive         for recruiting, hiring, and
                              formal processes for the          recruitment, hiring, induction,
                                                                                                   approach to recruitment, hiring,     retaining an effective and
                              recruitment and hiring of         development, and career
                                                                                                   induction, development, and          diverse workforce of
                              faculty and staff, and/or fails   growth, but systems are
                                                                                                   career growth that promotes          administrators and educators
                              to provide sufficient             inadequately or inconsistently
                                                                                                   high-quality and effective           who share the district’s
                              induction, development, or        implemented throughout the
                                                                                                   practice, as evidenced by            mission and meet the learning
                              career growth supports to         district, and/or do not
                                                                                                   districtwide systems that            needs of all students, as
                              educators, as evidenced by an     consistently promote the
                                                                                                   support:                             evidenced by:
                              inability to reliably hire and    hiring, retention, and support
                              retain educators that meet        of a diverse, effective educator   x   Hiring and retaining a diverse   x   comprehensive induction
                              the learning needs of district    workforce.                             workforce;                           supports for all new
      II-B. Human Resources   students.                                                            x   Comprehensive induction              educators;
      Management &                                                                                     supports for new educators;      x   job-embedded
      Development                                                                                  x   Job-embedded professional            professional learning that
                                                                                                       development aligned with             (a) reinforces district
                                                                                                       district goals; and                  goals, (b) results in high-
                                                                                                   x   Distributed leadership               quality and effective
                                                                                                       opportunities to support             practice; and
                                                                                                       educator career growth.          x   formalized distributed
                                                                                                                                            leadership and career
                                                                                                                                            growth opportunities.
                                                                                                                                        Empowers all administrators to
                                                                                                                                        implement these systems
                                                                                                                                        consistently.
                              Does not implement systems        Encourages the use of              Uses systems to ensure optimal       Empowers administrators and
                              to ensure optimal use of time     scheduling and management          use of time for teaching,            teams to contribute to the
                              for teaching, learning, or        information systems that           learning, and collaboration, as      design and monitoring of
                              collaboration, such that          promote time for teaching and      evidenced by:                        district systems that maximize
                              instructional time is             learning, but does not monitor                                          access to quality instructional
      II-C. Scheduling and                                                                         x   school schedules that
                              inadequate and/or routinely       efficacy throughout the district                                        time for all students, and
      Management                                                                                       maximize student access to
                              disrupted, and administrators     and/or allows for frequent                                              minimize disruptions and
      Information Systems                                                                              quality instructional time and
                              have limited to no                schedule disruptions; provides                                          distractions for all school-level
                                                                                                       minimize school day
                              opportunities to collaborate      inadequate time for                                                     staff. Supports ongoing
                                                                                                       disruptions; and
                              around meaningful practice.       administrators to collaborate                                           administrator collaboration
                                                                                                   x   regular opportunities for
                                                                around leadership practice.                                             within and across schools.
                                                                                                       administrators to
                                                                                                       collaborate.
                                                                                                                                                                            5
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents
                                      Unsatisfactory                Needs Improvement                           Proficient                          Exemplary
                               Demonstrates lack of            May know state and federal           Understands and complies with         Provides the resources and
                               awareness or consistent non-    laws and mandates, school            state and federal laws and            support for all school
                               compliance with some or all     committee policies, and              mandates, school committee            personnel to understand and
      II-D. Laws, Ethics and   state and federal laws and      collective bargaining                policies, collective bargaining       comply with state and federal
      Policies                 mandates, school committee      agreements, but inconsistently       agreements, and ethical               laws and mandates, school
                               policies, or collective         complies with some laws or           guidelines, and provides the          committee policies, collective
                               bargaining agreements,          policies, and/or ethical             resources and support to ensure       bargaining agreements, and
                               and/or fails to adhere to       guidelines.                          district-wide compliance.             ethical guidelines. Models this
                               ethical guidelines.                                                                                        practice for others.
                               Develops a budget that does     Develops a budget that loosely       Develops a budget that supports       Leads the administrator team
                               not align with the district’s   aligns with the district’s vision,   the district’s vision, mission, and   to develop a district budget
                               goals or mismanages available   mission, and goals, and/or           goals; allocates and manages          aligned with the district’s
                               resources. Does not             inconsistently manages               expenditures consistent with          vision, mission, and goals that
                               communicate budget              expenditures and available           district/school-level goals and       addresses the needs of all
                               rationale or financial short    resources. Does not effectively      available resources; and              students. Allocates and
                               falls to staff, community       communicate budget rationale         effectively communicates budget       manages expenditures
                               members, municipal              to staff, community members,         rationale to staff, community         consistent with district/school-
      II-E. Fiscal Systems     stakeholders, or the school     municipal stakeholders, and          members, municipal                    level goals, and seeks alternate
                               committee.                      the school committee.                stakeholders, and the school          funding sources as needed.
                                                                                                    committee. Provides regular           Proactively communicates
                                                                                                    updates on implementation of          budget rationale to staff,
                                                                                                    the budget.                           community members,
                                                                                                                                          municipal stakeholders, and
                                                                                                                                          the school committee.
                                                                                                                                          Provides regular updates on
                                                                                                                                          implementation of the budget.
                                                                                                                                                                             6
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents
                                                     STANDARD III: Family and Community Engagement
    Promotes the learning and growth of all students and the success of all staff through effective partnerships with families,
             community organizations, and other stakeholders that support the mission of the school and district.
                                         Unsatisfactory                 Needs Improvement                          Proficient                              Exemplary
                                 Does little to welcome families   Invites families to participate    Promotes, monitors and supports         Ensures that all personnel to use
                                 as members of the district,       in the classroom and school        comprehensive, culturally               culturally responsive and
                                 classroom or school               community, but efforts are         responsive and collaborative            collaborative practices that engage
                                 community, or tolerates an        limited or insufficient, leading   engagement practices that welcome       all families to contribute to district,
                                 environment that is               to limited family involvement      and encourage every family to           classroom, school, and community
                                 unwelcoming to some families.     throughout the district.           actively participate in the classroom   effectiveness, including but not
                                                                                                      and school community, and engages       limited to families with limited
                                                                                                      community stakeholders to               access to technology, and families
 III-A. Engagement
                                                                                                      contribute to the classroom, school,    whose home language is not
                                                                                                      and community's effectiveness.          English. Actively engages
                                                                                                                                              stakeholders from all segments of
                                                                                                                                              the community, including residents,
                                                                                                                                              municipal officials, and business
                                                                                                                                              leaders, in furthering the mission of
                                                                                                                                              the school and the district. Models
                                                                                                                                              this practice for others.
                                 Does not ensure that              Encourages administrators to       Monitors adherence to district-wide     Empowers all administrators to
                                 administrators are identifying    work with families to address      policies and practices that promote     regularly collaborate with families
                                 student learning and              students struggling                continuous collaboration with           to address each student’s academic,
                                 development needs and             academically or behaviorally,      families to support student learning    social, emotional, and behavioral
                                 working with families to          but does not consistently          and development both at home and        needs, and to access as needed
                                 address them.                     monitor these activities to        at school, as evidenced by:             necessary services within and
                                                                   ensure that student needs are      x the collaborative identification      outside of schools to address those
 III-B. Sharing Responsibility                                     being met, either within or             of each student’s academic,        needs. Monitors these processes to
                                                                   outside of schools.                     social, emotional, and             ensure all student needs are being
                                                                                                           behavioral needs; and              met. Models this practice for
                                                                                                      x connecting families to the            others.
                                                                                                           necessary resources and
                                                                                                           services within the school and
                                                                                                           the community to meet
                                                                                                           students’ learning needs.
                                                                                                                                                                                        7
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents
                                    Unsatisfactory                  Needs Improvement                          Proficient                              Exemplary
                            Does not set clear expectations     May set expectations              Engages in regular, two-way,            Supports and empowers all
                            for or provide support to           regarding regular, two-way,       culturally proficient communication     administrators to engage in regular,
                            administrators regarding            culturally proficient             with families and community             two-way, culturally responsive
                            regular or culturally sensitive     communications with               stakeholders about student learning     communications with families
                            communication with families,        families, but allows occasional   and performance, that is provided in    about student learning and
                            and/or allows culturally            communications that are           multiple formats and reflects           performance. District-wide
 III-C. Communication       insensitive, inappropriate, or      culturally insensitive to some    understanding of and respect for        communications with families are
                            disrespectful communications        families’ home language,          different families’ home languages,     provided in multiple formats and
                            with families to occur. District    culture, and values. District     culture, and values.                    respect and affirm different
                            communication regarding             communication primarily                                                   families’ home languages, culture,
                            student learning and                occurs through school                                                     and values.
                            performance occurs primarily        newsletters and other one-
                            through school report cards.        way media.
                            Does not address most family        Ensures that most family          Addresses family concerns in an         Ensures that all family concerns are
                            concerns in a timely or             concerns are addressed as         equitable, effective, and efficient     addressed in a timely and effective
                            effective manner, fails to          they arise, but responsiveness    manner, and supports                    manner throughout the district;
                            provide systems or supports         is inconsistent across the        administrators to seek equitable        empowers administrators to
                            for administrators to do the        district. Supports                resolutions to both academic and        proactively respond as academic or
                            same, and/or allows responses       administrators to reach           non-academic concerns that (a)          non-academic concerns arise; and
 III-D. Family Concerns                                                                           reflect relevant information from all
                            to be inconsistent or               solutions to family concerns,                                             promotes collaborative problem
                            insufficient. Resolutions are       but may not ensure equitable      parties including families, faculty,    solving processes informed by
                            often not in the best interest of   resolutions that are in the       and staff, and (b) are in the best      relevant input from all families,
                            students.                           best interest of students.        interest of students.                   faculty, and staff that result in
                                                                                                                                          equitable solutions that are in the
                                                                                                                                          best interest of students. Models
                                                                                                                                          this practice for others.
                                                                                                                                                                                 8
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents
                                                          STANDARD IV: Professional Culture
  Promotes success for all students by nurturing and sustaining a school culture of reflective practice, high expectations, and
                                                 continuous learning for staff.
                               Unsatisfactory                  Needs Improvement                             Proficient                            Exemplary
                       Does not encourage high           May articulate high standards for      Fosters a shared commitment to high     Established a district-wide
                       standards of teaching and         teaching and learning, but             standards of teaching and learning      commitment to high standards of
                       learning or high expectations     expectations are inconsistently        with high expectations for              teaching and learning with high
                       for achievement among             applied throughout the district, as    achievement for all, including:         expectations for achievement for
                       administrators, as evidenced      evidenced by:                          1. Mission and core values:             all, including:
                       by:                               1.   Mission and core values are          Develops, promotes, and secures      1.   Mission and core values:
                        1.   a failure to develop or          present but may not reflect          staff commitment to core values           Collaborates with educators
                             articulate the district’s        district-wide buy-in, or are         that guide the development of a           and community members to
                             mission or core values;          rarely used to inform decision-      succinct, results-oriented mission        develop, secure and/or
                             and                              making.                              statement and ongoing decision-           promote core values and an
                        2.   an inability or             2.   Meetings: Leads administrator        making.                                   aligned mission, and to use
 IV-A. Commitment to
                             unwillingness to lead            leadership meetings that          2. Meetings: Plans and leads well-           them to guide decision
 High Standards
                             administrator leadership         address matters of                   run and engaging meetings that            making.
                             meetings that inform             consequence but may not              have clear purpose, focus on         2.   Meetings: Empowers
                             school and district              result in meaningful decision-       matters of consequence, and               administrators to share
                             matters.                         making.                              engage participants in a                  responsibility for leading
                                                                                                   thoughtful and productive series          team meetings that address
                                                                                                   of conversations and deliberations        important district matters,
                                                                                                   about important school matters.           and foster collaborative
                                                                                                                                             learning and problem-solving
                                                                                                                                             around instructional
                                                                                                                                             leadership issues.
                                                                                                                                        Models this practice for others.
                                                                                                                                                                            9
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents
                                Unsatisfactory                   Needs Improvement                             Proficient                             Exemplary
                        Develops and implements             Takes pride in having a diverse      Ensures that policies and practices       Leads stakeholders to develop and
                        culturally insensitive or           administration, faculty and/or       enable staff members and students         implement culturally responsive
                        inappropriate policies and          student body, but some policies      to interact effectively in a culturally   policies and practices that
                        practices, does not support         and practices are not culturally     diverse environment in which              acknowledge the diverse
                        administrators and staff in         responsive; and/or provides          students’ backgrounds, identities,        backgrounds, identities, strengths,
                        building cultural proficiency,      limited resources for                strengths, and challenges are             and challenges of administrators,
                        and/or fosters a culture that       administrators to support the        respected, as evidenced by the            students and staff. Empowers
 IV-B. Cultural
                        minimizes the importance of         development of culturally            sufficient provision of guidance,         administrators with time,
 Proficiency
                        individual differences.             responsive learning environments     supports, and resources to all schools    resources, and supports to build
                                                            and school culture that affirms      to promote culturally responsive          culturally responsive learning
                                                            individual differences.              learning environments and school          environments and collaborates
                                                                                                 cultures that affirm individual           with community members to
                                                                                                 differences of both students and staff.   create a culture that affirms
                                                                                                                                           individual differences. Models this
                                                                                                                                           practice for others.
                        Demonstrates ineffectual            Demonstrates adequate                Demonstrates strong interpersonal,        Utilizes and models strong
                        interpersonal, written, or verbal   interpersonal, written, and verbal   written, and verbal communication         context- and audience-specific
                        communication skills at times,      communication skills, but outreach   skills, as evidenced by regular and       interpersonal, written, and verbal
                        such that staff, families and       to staff, families and community     informative outreach to staff, families   communication skills. Actively
                        community members, and/or           members, and/or the school           and community members, and the            seeks and incorporates feedback
 IV-C. Communications
                        the school committee lack           committee may be inconsistent or     school committee in a manner that         into decision-making and in
                        accurate or sufficient              unclear.                             advances the work of the district.        communicating rationale for the
                        information.                                                             Regularly seeks and considers             decisions to staff, family,
                                                                                                 feedback in decision-making.              community members and school
                                                                                                                                           committee.
                                                                                                                                                                            10
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents
                                    Unsatisfactory                     Needs Improvement                              Proficient                               Exemplary
                            Accepts the practice of              Encourages administrators and          Develops and nurtures a culture in         Develops, nurtures, and models a
                            administrators working largely       teams to reflect on the                which staff members are reflective         culture in which all staff members
                            in isolation, without                effectiveness of instruction and       about their practice and use student       are reflective about their practice
                            consideration of data and best       student learning and use data and      data, current research, best practices     and use student data, current
                            practices. Does not reflect on       best practices to adapt practice,      and theory to continuously adapt           research, best practices and
                            leadership practice or               but does not monitor                   instruction and achieve improved           theory to continuously adapt
                            demonstrate new ways of              administrators in these practices      results, as evidenced by:                  instruction and achieve improved
                            thinking about administration        to ensure consistency or efficacy.                                                results, as evidenced by:
                                                                                                        x   Supporting regular opportunities
                            and leadership.                      Occasionally reflects on their own
                                                                                                            for administrators and teams to        x    Empowering all
                                                                 leadership practice.
 IV-D. Continuous                                                                                           reflect on and collaborate around           administrators to collaborate
 Learning                                                                                                   the effectiveness of a wide range           and share knowledge and
                                                                                                            of practices related to instruction         skills of best practices that
                                                                                                            and student learning, and                   improve student learning
                                                                                                        x   Engaging in their own continuous            within their own buildings,
                                                                                                            learning to improve leadership              and
                                                                                                            practice.                              x    Regularly reflecting on and
                                                                                                                                                        improving their own
                                                                                                        Models these behaviors in their own
                                                                                                                                                        leadership practice in order to
                                                                                                        practice.
                                                                                                                                                        develop new approaches to
                                                                                                                                                        improve overall district
                                                                                                                                                        effectiveness.
                            Does not engage stakeholders         Engages some administrators,           Continuously engages all                   Leads administrators, staff,
                            in the creation of or                staff, students, families, and         stakeholders in the creation of (or        students of all ages, families, and
                            commitment to a shared               community members in                   commitment to) a shared educational        community members to develop
                            educational vision, such that        developing and committing to a         vision focused on student preparation      and internalize a shared
                            the vision is not one in which all   shared educational vision focused      for college and career readiness, civic    educational vision around student
                            students will be prepared to         on student preparation for college     engagement, community                      preparation for college and
 IV-E. Shared Vision        succeed in postsecondary             and career readiness, civic            contributions, and responsible             careers, civic engagement,
                            education and become                 engagement, responsible                citizenship.1                              community contributions, and
                            responsible citizens and             citizenship, and community                                                        responsible citizenship. Ensures
                            community contributors.              contributions, but stakeholder                                                    alignment of school and district
                                                                 engagement is limited and/or the                                                  goals to this vision. Models this
                                                                 vision is unrepresentative of the                                                 practice for others.
                                                                 district community.
1
  The original Indicator language is modified in this rubric to reflect a more expansive definition of student success that is inclusive of college and career readiness. This definition
is reflected in the other model rubrics as well as Massachusetts policies and initiatives to improve outcomes for all students.
                                                                                                                                                                                      11
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents
                               Unsatisfactory                   Needs Improvement                               Proficient                              Exemplary
                       Does not respond to                Responds respectfully to most           Employs strategies for responding to      Models a variety of strategies for
                       disagreement or dissent and/or     cases of disagreement and dissent,      disagreement and dissent,                 responding respectfully and
                       does not address conflict in a     but employs only a limited range        constructively resolving conflict, and    effectively to disagreement and
                       solutions-oriented or respectful   of strategies to resolve conflict and   building consensus throughout             dissent, and resolves conflicts in a
                       manner. Does not attempt or        build consensus within the district     district and school communities,          constructive manner such that all
                       fails to build consensus within    and school communities, with            while maintaining a commitment to         parties are able to move forward
                       the district and school            varying degrees of success.             decisions that are in the best interest   productively. Regularly strives to
 IV-F. Managing
                       communities.                                                               of all students.                          achieve consensus within the
 Conflict
                                                                                                                                            district and school communities,
                                                                                                                                            while maintaining a commitment
                                                                                                                                            to decisions that are in the best
                                                                                                                                            interest of all students. Empowers
                                                                                                                                            and supports administrators to
                                                                                                                                            use these approaches in their own
                                                                                                                                            leadership.
                                                                                                                                                                              12
