Open Meeting Law, Public Records
 and Conflict of Interest Laws for
   School Committee Members

    Marblehead Public Schools
          July 19, 2022

   Presented by Colby C. Brunt




               Page 1
                                I. OPEN MEETING LAW

                                          Overview

      The Massachusetts Open Meeting, or “OML” applies to public bodies at the state,
county, and local levels. In general, the Law requires that all meetings of such entities
be open to the public, that notice of such meetings be publicly posted, and that accurate
records of the meetings be maintained and made available to the public. (See attached
Open Meeting Law Guide and Educational Materials).

        The overriding intent of the Law is to foster and, in fact, require open discussion
of governmental action. However, the Law does recognize that public officials might be
"unduly hampered" if all discussions by public officials were required to take place in
public. As a result, it identifies specific circumstances, often referred to as
"exemptions," in which the governmental body may meet in a closed or “executive”
session. These exemptions are limited in number and narrow in scope. Indeed, the
Supreme Judicial Court has held that the exemptions to the Open Meeting Law must be
strictly construed and narrowly applied in order not to frustrate the “legislative purpose"
of openness.

        Within two weeks of a member’s election or appointment to a public body or the taking
of the oath of office, whichever occurs later, the member must complete a Certificate of
Receipt of Open Meeting Law Materials certifying that he/she has received the materials, and
that they understand the requirements of the Open Meeting Law and the consequences for
violating it. The certification must be retained where the body maintains its official record.

                                 What Entities Are Covered?

        Public body: Includes essentially every multiple member board, commission, and
committee of state government or any county, district, city, region or town. (Exceptions
include but are not limited to the legislature and its committees and bodies of the
judicial branch.)

        Subcommittees: The Law also covers subcommittees appointed by a public
body. This includes not only subcommittees comprised of the parent public
body's members, but also subcommittees or special purpose committees that may include
individuals who are not members of the parent body, so long as the subcommittee or
special purpose committee is carrying out delegated functions or responsibilities of the
parent body, including simply serving in an advisory role.

      Single members: A single member of a governmental body cannot comprise a
"subcommittee" of the same governmental body. Pearson v. Board of Selectmen of
Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 124 (2000).



                                            Page 2
        Administrative meetings: Staff meetings called by administrative personnel are not
"public bodies." Where an administrator appoints a group of administrators or citizens to
provide advice on a matter within that individual administrator's own responsibilities, the group
is generally not a public body.

                                What Constitutes a Meeting?

       A meeting for the purposes of the OML is defined as a “deliberation by a public
body with respect to any matter within its jurisdiction.” A deliberation is “an oral or
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.”

       Quorum: A quorum is defined as a simple majority of the body unless otherwise
defined by applicable constitution, charter, rule, or law.

       Subcommittees: Deliberation by a public body’s subcommittee, which is itself a
public body, is subject to the Law if a quorum of the subcommittee is present, even if that
quorum is not sufficient to constitute a quorum of the parent public body.

        Remote Participation: The OML was silent on the matter of remote participation
until July 1, 2010. It now states as follows:

       The attorney general may by regulation or letter ruling, authorize remote
       participation by members of a public body not present at the meeting
       location; provided, however, that the absent members and all persons
       present at the meeting location are clearly audible to each other; and
       provided, further, that a quorum of the body, including the chair, are
       present at the meeting location...

        Serial Discussions: District Attorneys and the Attorney General have long
opined that even individual communications involving a quorum that occur in serial
fashion may be considered to constitute a “deliberation” and thus a meeting.
Similarly, "revolving door" meetings, in which a quorum of members participate in
serial fashion, are meetings under the Open Meeting Law and must comply with all the
Law's requirements. Private communications regarding public business involving a
quorum can violate the Law regardless of the knowledge or intent of the parties.

       Exception for housekeeping matters: The Open Meeting Law specifically
excludes certain housekeeping matters from the definition of “deliberation,”
including the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling or procedural
information or reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided
that no opinion of a member is expressed.




                                             Page 3
        Other Exceptions: The Open Meeting Law specifically excludes the following from the
definition of meeting:

       (a)   an on-site inspection of a project or program, so long as the members do not
             deliberate;

       (b)   attendance by a quorum of a public body at a public or private gathering, including
             a conference or training program or a media, social or other event, so long as the
             members do not deliberate;

       (c)   attendance by a quorum of a public body at a meeting of another public body that
             has complied with the notice requirements of the open meeting law, so long as the
             visiting members communicate only by open participation in the meeting on those
             matters under discussion by the host body and do not deliberate;

       (d)   a meeting of a quasi-judicial board or commission held for the sole purpose of
             making a decision required in an adjudicatory proceeding brought before it
             (limited state agencies or others subject to M.G.L. c. 30A); or

       (e)   a session of a town meeting convened under section 10 of chapter 39 which would
             include the attendance by a quorum of a public body at any such session.

                                      Posting of Meetings

      When: The meeting must be posted at least 48 hours in advance, excluding Saturdays,
Sundays and legal holidays. (Prior to 7/1/10, Saturdays were included.)

        Contents: The meeting notice must be printed in easily readable type, and contain the
date, time, and place of the meeting and a listing of the topics the chair reasonably anticipates
will be discussed at the meeting. In the event the body intends to discuss topics that come up
within the 48-hour period before the posting, the Attorney General’s Office has encouraged public
bodies to make a revised list of such topics available to the public in advance, even though not
specifically required by the OML.

       Where: For meetings of a local public body, notice must be filed with the
municipal clerk and “posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all
hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located.” (The “all
hours” requirement is new, effective 2010).

       Emergency Meetings: When there is a need for an emergency meeting making
the 48-hour posting impossible, the public body must post as soon as reasonably
possible prior to such meeting. The courts have generally viewed “emergencies” for the
purpose of the OML as dire circumstances such as the imminent collapse of a building.



                                             Page 4
                                           Executive Sessions

      The OML recognizes ten grounds upon which a public body may enter an
executive session. They are:

        1.      To discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health,
                rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the
                discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a
                public officer, employee, staff member or individual. (Emphasis added)1/

        2.      To conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with
                nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or
                contract negotiations with nonunion personnel;2/

        3.      To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an
                open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating
                position of the public body and the chair so declares (emphasis added)3/;

        4.      To discuss the deployment of security personnel or devices, or strategies with
                respect thereto;




        1/
            When a public body holds an executive session under exemption (1), i.e., to discuss an
individual's reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, or to consider disciplinary
sanctions against an individual, the Open Meeting Law affords the individual concerned rights: 1. to
receive written notice at least forty-eight hours in advance of the proposed executive session; and 2. to
request that the meeting be open rather than closed, a request that must be granted. If held in
executive session the individual has the following rights:1.to be present during deliberations which
involve that individual; 2. to have counsel or a representative of his own choosing present and attending
for the purpose of advising the individual and not for the purpose of active participation in the executive
session; 3. to speak on his own behalf; and 4. to cause an independent record to be created of the
executive session by audio-recording or transcription, at the individual’s expense.
         2/
            Note that while a public body is permitted to conduct contract negotiations in executive
session and even reach agreement on the terms, the public body must then ratify any terms agreed
upon in open session, particularly for contracts with nonunion personnel. (See, e.g., Attorney General
Ruling OML - 2011-15 (May 4, 2011) and Gelinas v. Town of South Hadley (Superior Ct. #10-129 (May 2011)
and Attorney General FAQ.)
         3/
            The District Attorneys and Attorney General have previously advised that discussions relating
to proposed litigation are not covered by this exemption unless that litigation is clearly and imminently
threatened. Litigation is not necessarily "imminently threatened" simply because a person is
represented by counsel and supports a position adverse to the governmental body's position. Nor does
the fact that a newspaper reports that a party has threatened to sue mean imminent litigation.


                                                  Page 5
       5.     To investigate charges of criminal misconduct or to consider the filing of
              criminal complaints;

       6.     To consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the
              chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the
              negotiating position of the public body;

       7.     To comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law
              or federal grant-in-aid requirements;

       8.     To consider or interview applicants for employment or appointment by a
              preliminary screening committee if the chair declares that an open
              meeting will have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants;
              provided, however, that this clause shall not apply to any meeting,
              including meetings of a preliminary screening committee, to consider and
              interview applicants who have passed a prior preliminary screening;
              (emphasis added)

       9.     To meet or confer with a mediator, as defined in section 23C of chapter
              233, with respect to any litigation or decision on any public business
              within its jurisdiction involving another party, group or entity, provided
              that: (i) any decision to participate in mediation shall be made in an open
              session and the parties, issues involved and purpose of the mediation
              shall be disclosed; and (ii) no action shall be taken by any public body
              with respect to those issues which are the subject of the mediation
              without deliberation and approval for such action at an open session; or

       10.    To discuss trade secrets or confidential, competitively-sensitive or other
              proprietary information provided in the course of activities conducted by a
              governmental body as an energy supplier. . .

                       Procedures for Convening an Executive Session

       Notice: No executive session may be held unless and until an open meeting of the
governmental body, for which a proper posting was made, has first convened. (When an
executive session is reasonably anticipated, the meeting agenda should list the executive
session, including as much information as may be revealed without compromising the purpose
for which the executive session is to be called.)

        Convening: Once an open meeting has been duly convened, a proper executive session
may then convene only after a majority of the members of the governmental body vote to go
into the session. The vote of each member must be recorded on a roll call vote and entered in
the minutes of the meeting. Prior to the vote, the presiding officer:



                                            Page 6
        (1)   must cite for the record the purpose (or purposes if there are more
              than one) of the executive session, stating all subjects that may be
              revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive
              session was called. (If proceeding under exemptions 3
              (bargaining/litigation) or 8 (candidate interviews), the chair must also
              declare the detrimental effect.)4/

        (2)     must state whether the governmental body will reconvene in an
                open meeting after the executive session is over.

       Minutes of Executive Sessions: As with all meetings, minutes or an equivalent
record of every executive session must be kept. All votes must be recorded roll call
votes.

                                 Records and Minutes of Meetings

      The Open Meeting Law (as well as the Public Records Law, G. L. c. 66, §§ 5A )
requires every public body to maintain accurate minutes of all its meetings.

        Content: At a minimum, minutes must set forth the following:

        The date, time and place, the members present or absent,

        A summary of the discussions on each subject. A verbatim record of discussions is
        not required.

        A list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting. (NEW as of July
        1, 2010.) 5/




        4/ See District Attorney for Northern Dist. v. School Committee of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567
(Mass. 2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under
the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public that the school committee
would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so
was proper or improper”).
        5/
           Documents and other exhibits, such as photographs, recordings or maps, used by the body at
an open or executive session must, along with the minutes are to be considered part of the official
record of the session. However, under a provision in the 2010 amendments intended to blend Open
Meeting Law and personnel file exemption of Public Records Law, the following materials are exempt
from disclosure to the public as personnel information: (1) materials used in a performance evaluation
of an individual bearing on his professional competence, provided they were not created by the
members of the body for the purposes of the evaluation; and (2) materials used in deliberations about
employment or appointment of individuals, including applications and supporting materials; provided,
however, that any resume submitted by an applicant shall not be exempt.


                                                Page 7
       The decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the
       record of all votes. (Votes in an executive session must be by roll call a nd
       recorded as such.)

       Release: Both the Open Meeting Law and the Public Records Law include
provisions that pertain to the release of minutes of meetings convened by
governmental bodies. In general, the minutes of a meeting become public records from
the moment they are created. This is true regardless of the form in which they may first
appear. T h e governmental body may not require that it vote to adopt or approve for
release open session minutes before they may be released to the public, even though
the minutes may be only in draft form at the time of the request. The Public Agency
must provide access to the minutes within ten (10) days of a request.

       Release of Executive Session Minutes: The minutes or record of every executive
session become public records from the moment they are created; however, such
minutes "may remain secret as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the
executive session, but no longer." Public bodies are required to periodically review their
executive session minutes to determine whether continued non-disclosure is warranted.

                                     Public Participation

        Recordings: Except when a meeting is held in executive session, any person in
attendance may record the meeting so long as no active interference with the conduct of
the meeting arises as a result of the recording. The Law also allows any person attending
an open meeting of a municipal or district governmental body to videotape the meeting from
one or more fixed locations as determined by the governmental body, so long as there is no
active interference with the meeting.

        Because secret recordings of oral communications may violate the wiretap law, G.L. c.
272, § 99, it has long been reasonable to expect that a person recording a public meeting
should advise the chairperson in advance that he or she will be electronically recording the
meeting. However, effective 7/1/10, the Open Meeting Law specifically requires the recorder
to notify the chair, who is then responsible for notifying the participants and attendees.

        Participation: Although any member of the public may attend an open meeting, the
individual is permitted to address the public body only with the permission of the chair. If a
person becomes disruptive and remains so even after clear warning, the chair may direct the




                                             Page 8
person to leave the meeting and may authorize a constable or other officer to remove the
person if needed.6/
                                       Enforcement

         The Attorney General is responsible for enforcement and interpretation of the OML for
all public bodies. The process for filing and responding to a complaint is as follows:

        Step 1. Filing a Complaint with the Public Body

        Individuals who allege a violation of the Open Meeting Law must first file a
complaint with the public body within 30 days of the date of the violation, or the date the
complainant could reasonably have known of the violation. The complaint must be filed on a
complaint form available on the Attorney General’s website. When filing a complaint with a
local public body, the complainant must also file a copy of the complaint with the municipal
clerk.

        Step 2. The Public Body's Response

        Upon receipt, the chair of the public body should distribute copies of the complaint to
the members of the public body for their review. The public body has 14 business days from
the date of receipt to review the complainant’s allegations, take remedial action if appropriate,
notify the complainant of the remedial action, and forward a copy of the complaint and
description of the remedial action taken to the Attorney General. While the public body may
delegate responsibility for responding to the complaint to counsel or another individual, it must
first meet to do so.

       The public body may request additional information from the complainant. The public
body may also request an extension of time to respond to the complaint. A request for an
extension should be made within 14 business days of receipt of the complaint by the public
body. The request for an extension should be made in writing to the Attorney General’s office
and should include a copy of the complaint and state the reason for the requested extension.

        Step 3. Filing a Complaint with the Attorney General's Office

        A complaint is ripe for review by the Attorney General 30 days after the complaint is
filed with the public body. This 30-day period is intended to provide a reasonable opportunity
for the complainant and the public body to resolve the initial complaint. Complaints are not
automatically treated as filed for review by the Attorney General upon filing with the public


        6/
           School committees are not obligated to provide a public comment period. However, if such
period is provided, any restrictions must be narrowly tailored to serve a legitimate public interest if they
are to survive a First Amendment challenge. (See Corey Spaulding & Another v. Town of Natick School
Committee and Others (MA Superior Court November 21, 2018) holding that a school committee policy
prohibiting “improper conduct and remarks. . .defamatory or abusive remarks. . . and personal
complaints” during the public comment period violated the First Amendment.)


                                                  Page 9
body. A complainant who has filed a complaint with a public body and seeks further review by
the Division of Open Government must file the complaint with the Attorney General after the
30-day local review period has elapsed but before 90 days have passed since the date of the
violation or the date that the violation was reasonably discoverable.

If a violation has occurred, the Attorney General has wide latitude in enforcement of the law
including imposing any of the following:

       1.      Require immediate and future compliance with the law;
       2.      Require training;
       3.      Nullify an action taken by the Board in an unlawful meeting;
       4.      Impose a civil penalty of $1000 (or less) against the Board for intentional
               violations;
       5.      Reinstate an employee without loss of compensation, seniority, tenure or
               benefits;
       6.      Require minutes and other materials to be available for public review;
       7.      Prescribe any other appropriate action.

                         Examples of Attorney General Determinations

        Since July 2010, the Division of Open Government, office of the Attorney General (AG)
has issued many determinations arising from complaints filed against various governmental
agencies in Massachusetts. These may be found at the Attorney General’s website,
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. The following are examples that illustrate the AG’s
application of the OML that should be of interest to school committee members.

        OML 2012-93. Even a way-one email can constitute a prohibited “deliberation”: The AG
noted that “deliberation” is defined as “an oral or written communication through any medium,
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business
within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of
a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no
opinion of a member is expressed.” The AG further stated that expression of an opinion on
matters within the body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is deliberation, even if no
other public body member responds.

       In this case, the Co-Chair of the Building Committee sent an email to 10 of the 11
members of the Committee, attaching a presentation and requesting comments. The email
was sent to a quorum of the Committee, and the subject matter - opposition to a Town
Meeting article - was clearly public business within the Committee’s jurisdiction, as the
Committee had been charged with overseeing the construction of the school building at issue in
the petitions. Thus, the email constituted unlawful deliberation and the Co-Chair’s actions
constituted an individual violation of the Open Meeting Law. Notably, the AG declined to find a



                                              Page 10
violation by the Committee as a whole because there was no evidence that any Committee
member responded to a quorum of the Committee.

        OML 2012-41. Subcommittees must keep adequate minutes: In this case, a School
Committee’s negotiations subcommittee (NSC) properly met in executive session for more than
three hours. The AG described that the OML requires minutes to contain a summary of the
discussion of each subject. However, they do not need to be a transcript of the meeting nor
identify each speaker, “so long as a member of the public can read the minutes and understand
from the summary the nature of the discussion and how the public body arrived at its
decisions.” The AG found that the minutes from the NSC’s meeting, stating as follows, clearly
fell short of this standard:

       The [Union] presented the NSC with a proposal. The NSC discussed the elements
       of the proposal and made a counter-offer to the Union. The [Union] was
       disappointed in the counter-offer. The NSC continued to discuss the strategy of
       the counter-offer.

       The AG found that a member of the public “cannot read those few sentences and
understand what occurred over the course of the three- and one-half-hour meeting. The
minutes should include details of the NTSC’s proposal, the counter-offer, the Union’s concerns,
and the discussion of strategy.”

        OML 2012-66. The posted agenda must be specific and contracts must be ratified in
open session: Here the AG found that a School Committee’s information included about an
executive session listed on the posted agenda was insufficient. The AG stated that a topic is
generally determined to include sufficient specificity “when a reasonable member of the public
could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.”
The AG further noted that for an executive session notice, the chair must “state the purpose for
the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the
purpose for which the executive session was called.” In this instance the School Committee
notice indicated that there would be an executive session “for the purpose of discussing
contract negotiations with non-union personnel,” but did to specify that the contract being
discussed was that of the Superintendent. These meeting notices therefore fell short of the
requirement that the Committee state “all subjects that may be revealed without
compromising the purpose for which the executive session” will be called.

       The AG further found that although negotiation of the Superintendent’s contract was an
appropriate subject for executive session, once the negotiations concluded, the Committee
violated the OML by then failing to return to open session to vote on the contract

       OML 2012-111. Only topics reasonably anticipated must be posted: In this case, the
complaint alleged that the School Committee had violated the OML by considering a motion
that had not been posted on the agenda. The AG noted that a meeting notice must be posted
48 hours before a meeting and contain “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing


                                            Page 11
of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Here, the
Chair spoke with a School Committee member an hour before the School Committee’s meeting,
and after that conversation, decided to introduce a motion under the “New Business” section
of the meeting. The AG found that the Chair did not reasonably anticipate this motion 48 hours
before the meeting and, therefore, it was not unlawful to consider the motion, even though it
had not been listed in a meeting notice. (See attached OML Checklists).

                    II. THE MASSACHUSETTS PUBLIC RECORDS LAW

        The Massachusetts Public Records Law provides that every person has a right to access
public records, unless such records fall within 16 statutory exemptions. (See attached Guide to
Massachusetts Public Records Law). Massachusetts defines public records broadly, to include
“all documentary material or data, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or
received by any officer or employee” of any town of the Commonwealth. M.G.L. c. 4, §7(26).
The statutory exemptions are strictly and narrowly construed. Globe Newspaper Co. v. DA of
the Middle Dist., 439 374, 3890 (2003). Examples of exemptions are as follows:

       Exemption A: those records that are “specifically or by necessary implication
       exempted from disclosure by statute.” One statute that exempts disclosure
       under the public records law is the Federal Education Rights and Privacy Act
       (“FERPA”) and related Massachusetts Student Records Regulations that govern
       maintenance, confidentiality and access to Student Records.

       Exemption C: personnel and medical files or information; also, any other
       materials or data relating to a specifically named individual, the disclosure of
       which may constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.

        A caution about email and text messages: Emails made and received by public
officials are subject to disclosure unless one of the statutory exemptions applies. As with any
effective communication, content and choice of words in emails must be tailored to the
anticipated audience, which could include the general public.

                                Additional Compliance Obligations

        On June 3, 2016, Governor Baker signed An Act to Improve Public Records into law,
which took effect on January 1, 2017. The new law sets limits on fees, provides deadlines for
the provision of records, requires the designation of a “Records Access Officer,” and provides
for an appeals process in respect to assessing fees and extensions of time to respond to records
requests. The new law also distinguishes between “agencies” and “municipalities,” assigning
certain responsibilities to each. School districts fall within the definition of “municipalities” for
the purposes of the new law. In addition, the Secretary of State’s office is expected to create
educational materials, make training available to agencies/towns, and prepare forms,
guidelines, and reference materials to use and give to the public. The Secretary of State’s



                                              Page 12
Division of Public Records has approved revised regulations implementing the new law which
are found at 950 CMR 32.00. (See attached Summary of Changes to the Public Records Law).

Records Access Officer
        Each “municipality” must designate one or more employees to serve as a Records
Access Officer (RAO). Thus, every city and town are required to identify at least one employee
who will serve in this role. Regional school districts also fall within the regulations’ definition of
municipality and therefore must designate an RAO. However, non-regional school districts may
choose to either coordinate responses to public records requests through the municipal RAO or
may choose to designate a district RAO. The RAO must coordinate the district’s response to
public records requests and facilitate a timely resolution. Each RAO must (1) assist persons
seeking public records to identify the records sought; (2) assist the custodian of records in
preserving public records in accordance with the law; and (3) prepare guidelines that assist
persons seeking public records to make informed requests. These guidelines must include a list
of categories of public records maintained by the district and must be posted on the district’s
website. The RAO shall also, to the extent feasible, post commonly available public records
documents on the district’s website.

       Contact information, including the RAO’s name, title, business address, business
telephone number, and business email address, must also be posted in a conspicuous location
and on the district’s website.

Electronic Records
        The RAO must provide the public records by electronic means unless the record is
unavailable electronically or the requester is unable to receive or access the records
electronically. The record should be provided in the requester’s preferred format when
feasible. If the public record is otherwise available on a public website, the RAO may furnish
the record by assisting the requester in locating it on the website.

Response to Requests for Records
        The RAO must generally provide a written response to a request for public records no
later than ten (1) business days following receipt of a request. Requests may be made orally or
in writing and delivered by hand, by mail, by email, or by facsimile. A request is considered
“received” on (1) the first business day following receipt of a written request or (2) the day of
an oral request.

       An RAO may not charge a fee for a public record unless the RAO responds to the
requester within ten (10) business days. (See “Fees” below).

       The RAO may not require the requester to specify his/her reason for the request other
than to determine if the request is for commercial purposes or whether to grant a fee waiver.

      If the RAO is unable to permit inspection or furnish a copy of a requested record
because the magnitude or difficulty of the request, or multiple requests from the same


                                               Page 13
requester, unduly burdens the district, the district must still respond in writing, within ten (10)
business days of initial receipt of the request. The response, sent via email or first-class mail,
must identify a reasonable timeframe in which the district shall produce the public records
sought. Such timeframe may not exceed twenty-five (25) business days following the initial
receipt of the request for public records. A date beyond the twenty-five (25) business days is
acceptable if voluntarily agreed upon by the requestor.

       If the RAO intends to deny the access to requested records, the district must provide
written notice of the denial within ten (10) business days of receipt of the request. The
response, sent via email or first-class mail, must:
     Include the date of the request
     Identify any public records sought that aren’t in the possession, custody, or control of
       the district
     Identify the agency or municipality that may be in possession, custody, or control of the
       record, if known
     Identify any records or portions of records withheld and provide the reason (e.g.,
       exemption)
     Identify any portions of the responsive records that the district intends to produce
     Identify a reasonable timeframe in which the district will produce the public records, but
       no longer than 15 business days after initial receipt of request (or 25 business days for
       municipalities), unless the requester agrees to a date beyond this
     Inform the requester of his/her right to appeal to the Supervisor of Records or to seek
       judicial review.
     The RAO may petition the Supervisor of Records to request (1) an extension of time to
       provide requested records or (2) a waiver of fee limits.

Fees
        Districts can assess reasonable fees for the production of public records, unless those
records are freely available for public inspection. If fees are assessed, the district must provide
a written, itemized, good faith estimate of the amount to be charged prior to complying with
the request. The district may charge the following:
     The actual cost of any storage device (e.g., thumb drive)
     5 cents per page for black and white copies or printouts (single and double-sided)
     The actual cost of postage if the requester specifically asks that the records be mailed
     An hourly rate equal to the lowest paid employee with the required skills to respond to
        the request, not to exceed $25 per hour, for time spent searching, compiling,
        segregating, redacting and reproducing a requested record. If the municipality has a
        population of greater than 20,000, then the RAO may not assess such a fee for the first
        two hours of time spent responding to the request. If the municipality has a population
        of 20,000 or less, it may assess a fee for the first two hours spent responding to the
        request.




                                              Page 14
       To the extent feasible and at reasonable times, a requester is entitled to view and
inspect records prior to obtaining copies or use a personal device such as a camera or portable
scanner to copy records.

        The RAO may also waive or reduce any fee if the requester shows that the disclosure of
the public records is in the public interest because the records contribute significantly to the
public’s understanding of district operations and is not primarily in the commercial interest of
the requester, or if the requester has shown a lack of financial ability to pay. The

       If a requester has failed to pay for previously produced records, the RAO may deny
further requests, provided that written notification and an itemized bill of past due amounts is
provided to the requester. The RAO may also delay provision of requested records until all fees
related to the request are paid in full by the requester.

Appeal
         If a requester believes the district has failed to comply with the law, he/she may petition
the Supervisor of Records to determine whether a violation has occurred. Such petitions for
appeal must be filed within ninety (90) calendar days of the RAO’s response. The Supervisor of
Records will issue a decision within ten (10) business days and will order any appropriate relief.
If the district fails to comply with any issued order, the Attorney General may be notified and
may take action. A requester may also seek enforcement in court with the burden on the
district to prove that the record was withheld in accordance with state or federal law.

          III. The Massachusetts Conflict of Interest Statute M.G.L. c 268A

       The actions of committee members, as municipal employees, are also governed by the
Massachusetts Conflict of Interest Statute (M.G.L. Chapter 268A), as members are deemed to
be “special state employees” within the meaning of that statute. The purpose of the law is to
prevent conflict between private interests and public duties, foster integrity in public service,
and promote the public’s trust and confidence.

      The statute spells out several on-the job restrictions directly relevant to school
committee members:

   1. Bribes - You are prohibited from asking for, giving, offering, or receiving a bribe. Bribes
      are defined as taking anything of value corruptly received in exchange in order to
      influence your official actions. Bribes are illegal no matter what the value because they
      are motivated by corrupt intent.

   2. Gifts and gratuities - You are prohibited from asking for or accepting a gift or gratuity of
      $50 or more because of your official position, or because of something you can do or
      have done in your official position. Notably, this prohibition covers meals,
      entertainment, event tickets, golf, gift baskets and payment for travel expenses even if



                                              Page 15
        they are given in connection with official actions. A number of small gifts together
        worth $50 or more may also violate this section.

   3. Misuse of position - You may not use your official position to get something worth $50
      or more that you are not entitled to, or to get something for someone else that they are
      not entitled to.

   4. Self-dealing and nepotism - You may not participate as a school committee member in a
      matter in which you, your immediate family, your business organization, or your future
      employer as a financial interest. Immediate family includes parents, siblings, spouse,
      spouse’s parents, children and siblings. Participation includes discussing as well as
      voting on a matter, and delegating a matter to someone else. The amount of money is
      irrelevant in this prohibition. However, the financial interest must be direct, immediate
      or reasonably foreseeable. The statute includes some exemptions specific to other
      particular public offices. For example, school committee members may participate in
      setting school fees that will affect their own children if they make prior written
      disclosure.

   5. Making false claims - It goes without saying that you are prohibited from presenting
      false claims for payment or benefits of $50 or more or causing someone else to do so.

   6. Appearance of conflict - You may not act in a manner that would make a reasonable
      person think you can be improperly influenced or show favor toward someone. This
      prohibition requires you to consider those relationships and affiliations that may
      prevent you from acting fairly and objectively as a school committee member. If you
      doubt that you can do so, you should abstain. However, you can avoid violating this
      provision by making a public disclosure of the facts prior to acting.

   7. Confidential information - School committee members may not improperly disclose
      confidential information that they have as a result of their positions or make personal
      use of such non-public information to further their personal interest.

        Your obligations under the Conflict of Interest Law extends to after-hours activities as
well.

   1. Employment conflicts - You may not take a second job that conflicts with your duties. In
      other words, you cannot receive pay for employment for a position that is incompatible
      with being a school committee member. This prohibition includes private or public
      employment.

   2. Divided loyalties - School committee members are prohibited from receiving pay to
      work on a matter involving the committee. You may not act as an agent for anyone else
      in such a manner even though you are not paid to be school committee members.



                                             Page 16
   3. Inside track - Likewise, you may not take a paid position or receive pay from any
      department of Dover or Sherborn for work other than school committee work.

     Finally, the statute reaches beyond the term of your service as school committee
members.

   1. Forever ban - Once your service has ended, you may not work for anyone else on
      matters that you worked on while you were on the school committee. This prohibition
      serves to bar former employees from selling to private interests their familiarity with
      the facts of particular matters that are of continuing concern to their former employer.
      However, you may use the expertise you gain on the school committee in subsequent
      private service.

   2. One-year cooling off period - As former school committee member, you are barred for
      one year from personally appearing before any agency of the municipality in connection
      with matters under your authority in your prior position.

   3. Partners - Your business partners are subject to the same restrictions as you are while
      you are as a school committee member.

        When the Ethics Commission determines that the conflict of interest law has been
violated, it can impose a civil penalty of up to $10,000 ($25,00 for bribery cases) for each
violation. In addition, the Commission can order the violator to repay any economic advantage
gained by the violation and make restitution to injured third parties. Violations of the conflict
of interest law can also be prosecuted criminally.

       The Massachusetts legislature amended Chapter 268A effective July 2009 to include
mandatory education and training requirements for all public employees, as defined by the
statute. Thus, members of school committees in Massachusetts must receive a summary of
Chapter 268A annually and sign a written acknowledgement that they have been provided a
copy of the summary. In addition, they are required to complete an online training program.
New committee members must complete the training within 30 days of appointment and every
two years thereafter. (See attached Conflict of Interest Memorandum-Town of Dover). You
can also access additional information regarding your rights and obligations in particular
circumstances by contacting https://www.mass.gov/orgs/state-ethics-commission.




                                             Page 17
                                                                             Business Office
                                                                             9 Widger Road,
               MARBLEHEAD                                                    Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                             phone: 781.639.3140
               PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                                fax: 781.639.3149


                                       MEMORANDUM

TO:            Marblehead School Committee
FROM:          Michelle Cresta
DATE:          July 14, 2022
RE:            Schedule of Bills for Approval
Included in this packet is the following Schedules of Bills for your consideration. The schedules
and invoices have been uploaded to the shared drive and the required signatures have been
obtained for each schedule.

                                  22263         $        4,379.25
                                  22291         $        6,303.00
                                  22292         $       21,743.58
                                  22321         $       57,147.04
                                  22326         $       20,699.86
                                  22329         $      153,292.44
                                  22333         $        5,320.74
                                  22347         $       78,004.25
                                  22352         $       11,174.96
                                  22353         $       16,597.35
                                  22354         $          300.00
                                  22355         $      151,625.64
                                  22356         $       10,484.66
                                  22379         $       25,390.36
                                  22384         $       23,379.60
                                  22390         $      250,000.00
                                  22391         $          963.00
                                  22392         $        7,950.00
                                  22397         $       21,433.09
                                  22403         $        7,494.93

                                 TOTAL          $      873,683.75


Suggested Motion:
Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $873,683.75.
                                                                               Business Office
                                                                               9 Widger Road
               MARBLEHEAD                                                      Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                               phone: 781.639.3140
               PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                                  fax: 781.639.3149




                                                    MEMO

 TO:            Marblehead School Committee
 FROM:          Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent for Finance & Operations
 CC:            John Costantino, Food Service Director
 DATE:          July 14, 2022
 RE:            School Meal Prices 2022-2023
During the past school year our school meal program was universally funded by the federal and state
governments. This program provided funding for breakfast and lunch for all students all year long. This
program was great in terms of having our students fed, but is quite expensive for the government to sustain.
The participation rate during the past year was just over 50%. Normally our participation rate runs between
25% and 30%.

The funding and reimbursement rates for the upcoming school year has not yet been determined by the
government. For planning purposes, we need to assume that we will be returning to a three-tiered paid
lunch program in which we have separates rates for free, reduced and paid meals. The current time we are
anticipating that we will need to increase all paid meal prices due to increased operating costs. The
increase for most paid student meals will be $ .25 with a couple of exceptions due to pricing alignment. The
current and proposed prices are shown below.

                                        Current Set      Proposed
                                                                                         Proposed
                                         Breakfast       Breakfast       Current Set
                                                                                        Lunch Price
                                           Price           Price         Lunch Price

                    Brown/Glover              $2.00           $2.25             $3.00          $3.50
                          Village             $2.00           $2.25             $3.25          $3.50
                        Veterans              $2.00           $2.25             $3.50          $3.75
                             MHS              $2.00           $2.25             $3.75          $4.00
           MHS - Premium Lunch                                                                 $5.25
                       Adult Meal                             $5.00                            $5.00
           Adult - Premium Lunch                                                               $6.25

Another important item to keep in mind is the Price Equity requirement that is part of the federal regulations.
In normal times and circumstances, regulations require that the average price for a meal charged in the
district is equal to, or greater than the value of the free reimbursement. This calculation for this requirement
is dependent on the reimbursement meal rate that has yet to be set by the government for the upcoming
school year. The proposed increases are expected to satisfy this requirement for the upcoming school year.

Suggested Motion:
Motion to approve student paid meal prices for the 2022-2023 school year as $2.25 for breakfast at all
schools, $3.50 for lunch at Brown, Glover and Village, $3.75 for lunch at Veterans, $4.00 for lunch at the
High School, and $5.25 for a premium lunch at the High School.
                                  2022-2023 School Committee Sub-Committees and Liaisons
Note: Subcommittee recommendations are brought back to the School Committee for action (policy BDE)

I. Sub-Committees (requires vote):
Sub-Committees of                       Description of Sub-Committee                      2021-2022        2022-2023
School Committee                                    Activities                          Former Reps       Current Reps
                          Support budget development process via working session
                                                                                            David
                          with Superintendent and Business staff, provide
                                                                                        Harris/Meagan
       Budget             constructive input into the budget strategy and output, and
                                                                                            Taylor
                          support efforts with FinCom and the Town

   (Curriculum)
    Teaching &                                                                              N/A
     Learning

      Facilities          Annual review of yearly facilities maintenance plan,
                                                                                        Emily Barron
     Committee            capital outlays, and long term facilities’ needs
                                                                                         /Sarah Fox
       Policy             Remain current in MPS curriculum                                 Emily
                          development/alignment as progresses across disciplines        Barron/Sarah
                                                                                            Gold
      Building            Meet with Bldg. Comm. Bldg. Comm./report back to SC              David
     Committee            Minutes approved to Bldg. Comm.                               Harris/Sarah           N/A
                                                                                            Fox

II. Superintendent’s Advisory

Safety Advisory           Develop and maintain district safety plans in collaboration
                                                                                          Sarah Fox
                          with Town Officials

Health/Wellness           Overview of Wellness Policy and building related
                                                                                         Sarah Gold
                          procedures



III. SC Liaison to School Advisory Councils 2022-2023
             School                                2021-2022 SC Liaison                               2022-2023 SC Liaisons

          High School                                    Sarah Gold


             Veterans                                   Emily Barron


         Village School                                Meagan Taylor

             Glover                              Sarah Gold & David Harris

              Brown                                      Sarah Fox



IV. Other SC Liaisons 2022-2023

            METCO                                     Emily Barron

             SEPAC
                                                      Meagan Taylor


Decided at SC Retreat July 2022
QUOTE CONFIRMATION

DEAR STEVE KWIATEK,

Thank you for considering CDW•G LLC for your computing needs. The details of your quote are below.
Click here to convert your quote to an order.


       QUOTE #                   QUOTE DATE                 QUOTE REFERENCE                 CUSTOMER #                 GRAND TOTAL

       MQFB889                    2/18/2022                        POLY                           419279                    $5,690.26



QUOTE DETAILS

ITEM                                                                    QTY             CDW#                UNIT PRICE            EXT. PRICE

Poly - stand - for video conferencing system                              1             6690392                   $111.53               $111.53
Mfg. Part#: 2215-86538-100
Contract: Massachusetts IT Hardware and Services - ITC73 C3
(ITC73)
Poly Studio X70 - video conferencing kit - with Poly TC8                  1             6690401               $5,578.73             $5,578.73
Mfg. Part#: 7200-87300-001
Contract: Massachusetts IT Hardware and Services - ITC73 C3
(ITC73)




PURCHASER BILLING INFO                                                                                     SUBTOTAL                 $5,690.26

Billing Address:                                                                                           SHIPPING                       $0.00
MARBLEHEAD PUBLIC SCHOOL DISTRICT
ACCTS PAYABLE                                                                                              SALES TAX                      $0.00
9 WIDGER RD
MARBLEHEAD, MA 01945-2111                                                                              GRAND TOTAL                 $5,690.26
Phone: (617) 631-0900
Payment Terms: NET 30 Days-Govt/Ed

DELIVER TO                                                                               Please remit payments to:

Shipping Address:                                                                        CDW Government
VETERANS MIDDLE SCHOOL                                                                   75 Remittance Drive
217 PLEASANT ST                                                                          Suite 1515
MARBLEHEAD, MA 01945                                                                     Chicago, IL 60675-1515
Shipping Method: DROP SHIP-GROUND


                                          Need Assistance? CDW•G LLC SALES CONTACT INFORMATION


                              Tim Smith               |           (866) 773-7356               |              timsmit@cdwg.com




 This quote is subject to CDW's Terms and Conditions of Sales and Service Projects at
 http://www.cdwg.com/content/terms-conditions/product-sales.aspx
 For more information, contact a CDW account manager

 © 2022 CDW•G LLC 200 N. Milwaukee Avenue, Vernon Hills, IL 60061 | 800.808.4239




                                                                 Page 1 of 1
                                                                                                      Planning for Success
                                                                                                         In Massachusetts


                                  MARBLEHEAD PUBLIC SCHOOLS
                                  District Plan for Success 2021-2026


                                                       MISSION
       To foster in all students a passion for learning and to provide safe and nurturing, inclusive school
 environments in which they can develop the values, knowledge, and skills needed to achieve full potential in
        their personal, social and work lives to become engaged and contributing members of society.
                                                        VISION
   To be a model school district, exemplary in its student engagement and academic excellence, in which all
             students and staff reach their highest potential in partnership with the community.
                                                   CORE VALUES
Student Achievement: We will provide challenging standards and differentiated instruction to encourage
students to excel and become confident, engaged learners who achieve their potential.
Personal Growth: We will provide students with opportunities to grow socially, emotionally, physically and
academically, and to be respectful, contributing members of society.
Partnerships and Collaboration: As a shared responsibility, we will foster partnerships among the schools,
families, businesses and community at large.
School Culture: We will create an environment of respect and appreciation for individual and cultural
differences and instill a passion for responsible social action.
Resources: We will make decisions in the best interests of students’ growth, recognizing funding that supports
educational excellence and social/emotional well-being.


                                                 THEORY OF ACTION
If we fully align teaching and learning, Prek-12, with our multi-tiered system of supports (MTSS) framework
to ensure all students meet or exceed academic & social-emotional learning expectations; build, strengthen
and support educator capacity and well-being; promote equity & ensure inclusion by acknowledging and
embedding all forms of diversity; provide students and staff with the necessary technology and support to
promote successful student outcomes; and establish a comprehensive and equitable staffing, compensation, &
maintenance capital plan, aligned to the facility audit; then the Marblehead Public Schools will be a model
school district, exemplary in its student engagement and academic excellence, in which all students and staff
reach their highest potential in partnership with the community.
                              FOCUS AREAS OF DISTRICT IMPROVEMENT
     Teaching &             Professional        Diversity, Equity,        Technology            Facilities &
      Learning                 Culture              & Inclusion                                  Operations
                                           STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
1. Fully align teaching   2.Build, strengthen,     3. Promote equity &   4. Provide students    5. Establish a
& learning, Prek-12,      & support educator       ensure inclusion by   and staff with the     comprehensive and
with our multi-tiered     capacity and well-       acknowledging &       necessary technology   equitable staffing,
system of supports        being.                   embedding all forms   & support to promote   compensation &
(MTSS) framework to                                of diversity          successful student     maintenance capital
ensure all students                                throughout the        outcomes.              plan, aligned to the
meet or exceed                                     district.                                    facility audit.
academic & social-
emotional learning
expectations.




                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                              Planning for Success
                                                                                                                 In Massachusetts

                                              STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
1.1 Develop consistent      2.1 Ensure efficient     3.1 Analyze, cultivate,    4.1 Develop and           5.1 Determine town
systems, common             financial systems to     & expand district-        implement                  and school roles and
assessments, &              support effective        wide systems to           a comprehensive,           responsibilities.
processes for data          instruction & the        ensure all students       long-term technology
inquiry & analysis to       delivery of the          and families,             plan.
support instructional       curriculum.              especially those from
excellence & student                                 groups historically
growth.                                              marginalized, access
                                                     the entire scope of
                                                     opportunities during
                                                     & outside the school
                                                     day.
1.2 Expand & refine         2.2 Provide equitable    3.2 Embed diversity,      4.2 Create multi-year      5.2 Understand our
instruction to ensure the   access to resources      equity, & inclusion       budget projections to      assets to ensure
taught curriculum is        and supplies in each     in the mission,           support current and        accurate and timely
consistent & equitable      school and               vision, core values,      future initiatives.        communication with
for all students.           districtwide.            and training of our                                  community members
                                                     leadership teams,                                    and town officials.
                                                     schools, and the
                                                     district.
1.3 Align the               2.3 Ensure adequate      3.3 Examine and work      4.3 Create & add           5.3. Conduct an
curriculum by               opportunities and        with culturally           instructional tech         enrollment,
engaging in                 spaces for               responsive experts to     supports for staff         reconfiguration, and
curriculum mapping          collaboration in each    revise curriculum &       using technology           re-districting
that includes scope &       school and district      assessments to            integration specialists.   analysis.
sequence.                   wide.                    provide equitable
                                                     learning opportunities,
                                                     resources, & materials
                                                     that reflect all
                                                     students.
1.4 Provide                 2.4. Develop & offer     3.4 Acknowledge the       4.4 Provide                5.4 Explore revenue
professional                relevant, effective PD   history, strengthen, &    PD opportunities for       stream possibilities for
development that            throughout the school    support the district’s    technology use.            facility & field use.
supports educator           system.                  METCO program for
development, including                               both communities.
best practices for an
inclusive curriculum.
1.5 Ensure financial        2.5 Conduct a            3.5 Recruit staff         4.5 Review current         5.5 Use the facility
systems support the         compensation &           members who reflect       curriculum for             audit to develop and
delivery of the             staffing analysis for    our students &            technology to align K-     fund the annual
curriculum.                 Unit A personnel and     provide support           12.                        capital plan.
                            paraprofessionals.       systems to nurture
                                                     long-term
                                                     employment.
1.6 Implement full-day                               3.6 Identify, create,                                5.6 Conduct
K programs and                                       & evaluate practices                                 compensation &
explore other early                                  to ensure all students                               staffing analyses for all
childhood program                                    have access to high-                                 personnel areas.
opportunities.                                       quality educational
                                                     opportunities.
                                                     3.7 Cultivate                                        5.7 Develop a team to
                                                     inclusive family &                                   market the facilities &
                                                     community                                            maintenance plans for
                                                     partnerships.                                        community buy-in.
                                                     3.8 Sustain and
                                                     support DEI team.

                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                    Planning for Success
                                                                                                       In Massachusetts



                                                   OUTCOMES
OUTCOMES: Objective 1-Teaching & Learning
  A. By June 30, 2026, teaching and learning in the Marblehead Public Schools will be fully aligned, preK-12,
     with our Multi-tiered System of Supports (MTSS) framework, resulting in students meeting or exceeding
     academic and grade level expectations and experiencing individual social/emotional growth as evidenced
     through a variety of assessment tools.
  B. By June 30, 2026, instructional practices will reflect the aligned curriculum and the diversity, equity, and
     inclusion initiatives of the Marblehead Public Schools.
  C. By June 30, 2026, educators will be competent in their capacity to implement the aligned horizontal and
     vertical curriculum to ensure all students graduate as conscientious members of society who are career and
     college ready.
  D. By June 30, 2026, the District will have implemented full day K programs and explored other early
     childhood opportunities.
OUTCOMES: Objective 2 – Professional Culture
  A. By June 30, 2026, the Marblehead Public Schools, in conjunction with the Marblehead Education
     Association Professional Development Committee, will develop a long-term professional development plan
     (five-year) to address deficits; increase capacity; foster diversity, equity, and inclusion; support instructional
     technology; facilitate the development of aligned curriculum; and attend to the social emotional well-being of
     educators.
  B. By June 30, 2026, the Marblehead Public Schools will conduct a k-12 audit of spending for instructional
     supplies to ensure all have equitable funding that supports effective instruction.
OUTCOMES: Objective 3 Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
  A. By June 30, 2026, the Marblehead families, inclusive of all students enrolled in the Marblehead Public
     Schools, will be fully engaged and actively participate in their children’s education by way of during and
     outside of school opportunities.
  B. By June 30, 2026, the Marblehead Public Schools will have reduced at risk measures and outcomes for all
     marginalized and/or at-risk students to the point where all students feel safe, supported, and included in
     school.
  C. By June 30, 2026, the Marblehead Public schools will provide inclusive and diverse curriculum, instruction,
     and extracurricular practices and activities to ensure that all students have equitable access to high quality
     educational and personal development opportunities.
OUTCOMES: Objective 4 – Technology
  A. By June 30, 2026, the Marblehead Public Schools will have a sustained budget that supports current and
     future technology initiatives.
  B. By June 30, 2026, the Marblehead Public Schools will have sufficient staff to ensure the delivery of a
     comprehensive k-12 technology program.
OUTCOMES: Objective 5 - Facilities and Operations.
  A. By June 30, 2026, the Marblehead Public Schools will have equitable staff compensation.
  B. By June 30, 2026, the Marblehead Public Schools will maintain a capital plan and align it to the facility audit.
  C. By June 30, 2026, the Marblehead Public Schools will establish a comprehensive and equitable staffing plan.




                                                                                                               3
                                                                           Marblehead School Committee

                   MARBLEHEAD                                              9 Widger Road,
                                                                           Marblehead, MA 01945
                   PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                          phone: 781.639.3140 x10114
                                                                           email:schoolcommittee@marbleheadschools.org

             Sarah Fox        Emily Baron             Sarah Gold              Meagan Taylor          Alison Taylor
             Chairman         Vice Chairman         Committee Member         Committee Member           Secretary


From original: The Marblehead School Committee values and views as our top priority the academic, social and
emotional success of all students in our district. We agree to thoughtfully seek and support solutions that
will provide the greatest benefit to students


Who We Represent
        1. We represent the educational and developmental needs and interests of all students in the district. We
             place their interests above all others in the decisions we make.

How We Govern
          1. We acknowledge that a School Committee meeting is a meeting of the School Committee that
              is held in public – not a public meeting.
          2. We shall conduct business through a set agenda that should be connected to district goals.
              Emerging items shall be addressed in subsequent meetings through planned agenda items
              unless it is determined by the School Committee Chairperson that it would be detrimental to
              delay the issue until a subsequent meeting.
          3. Requests to add items to an agenda by members shall be made to the Superintendent or the
              School Committee Chairperson in accordance with the law.
          4. We shall strive to make each meeting effective and efficient giving each member an
              equal opportunity to express their views and opinions and to relay their input in a
              concise and topic-focused manner. No one member should monopolize the discussion.
              All remarks must be directed through the Chair. Remarks must be courteous in
              language and deportment.
          5. We shall make decisions after considering data, the Superintendent’s recommendations,
              proposals, and suggestions. We will engage in open-minded, respectful debate, vote our
              convictions, avoid bias, and uphold and support the decision of the majority of the
              Committee once a decision is made. We will explain the reasons for our votes.
          6. We shall exhibit professional conduct and behavior.
          7. We shall attend meetings well-prepared to discuss issues on the agenda and to participate
              in efficient decision-making.
          8. When we are in committee we will remain in our committee member role throughout
              the meeting.
          9. We shall ensure that we do not breach the open meeting laws by deliberating outside of
              duly convened meetings of the committee.
          10. The School Committee welcomes respectful, thoughtful input from the public in shaping
              committee decisions. Public input at meetings may be made on items on the agenda, or
              otherwise at the discretion of the Chairperson.
          11. We acknowledge the importance of subcommittees, and the Superintendent agrees to utilize
              them to focus on a specific topic in‐depth and to prepare for presentation, deliberation and
              possible action by the full School Committee. We will agree on the appropriate School
              Committee participation on subcommittees.
                                                                   Marblehead School Committee

              MARBLEHEAD                                           9 Widger Road,
                                                                   Marblehead, MA 01945
              PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                       phone: 781.639.3140 x10114
                                                                   email:schoolcommittee@marbleheadschools.org

         Sarah Fox      Emily Barron           Sarah Gold            Megan Taylor         Alison Taylor
         Chairman        Vice Chairman       Committee Member        Committee Member        Secretary



       12. School Committee members will maintain privileged information and respect the confidentiality
          of Executive Session.
       13. Our actions shall be consistent with the core values of the district, and be consistent with
          our vision of a high class organization.
       14. School Committee meetings will be guided by the Open Meeting law and Roberts Rules of
           Order.
       15. The Superintendent of Schools and such staff as are needed to advise the Committee shall
           be seated at the Committee table.
       16. School Committee members will familiarize themselves with and uphold all district policies.
           Specifically, policies relating to governance (BHC, BBAA, BIA, BHE, BCA, BDD).


How We Treat Each Other
       1. We shall debate the issues keeping an open mind to other member’s opinions and/or positions.
       2. We shall work to build trust between and among School Committee members, the
          Superintendent and the Administration by treating everyone with dignity and respect, even in
          times of disagreement.

How We Communicate
       1. It is the School Committee’s responsibility to set a positive tone for the district.

       2. The Superintendent and the School Committee recognize the importance of proactive
          communication. If School Committee members have questions or concerns, they agree
          to contact the Superintendent well in advance of a meeting. They agree that there will
          be no surprises.
       3. We shall channel requests for information through the Superintendent and/or the School
          Committee Chairperson rather than directly to district staff or Town officials. Town officials
          shall channel requests for information through the Chairperson or Superintendent for
          consideration by the School Committee.
       4. We shall provide full disclosure of information and not withhold information from other
          members.
       5. We shall advocate for the public schools and public education as ambassadors of the school
          system by promoting support for public education and spreading the news of our success.
          We shall always strive to project a positive image.
       6. We recognize the Chairperson, or her/his designee, as the official spokesperson of the
          School Committee, including, but not limited to, legal counsel and official media requests.
       7. The Superintendent and the School Committee recognize the importance of working
          collaboratively with the community to improve our schools and we shall actively seek ways
          to enlist community support for our efforts.
                                                                  Marblehead School Committee

              MARBLEHEAD                                          9 Widger Road,
                                                                  Marblehead, MA 01945
              PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                      phone: 781.639.3140 x10114
                                                                  email:schoolcommittee@marbleheadschools.org

        Sarah Fox      Emily Barron           Sarah Gold            Meagan Taylor       Alison Taylor
         Chairman       Vice Chairman      Committee Member         Committee Member       Secretary


       8. School Committee members acknowledge the importance of working collaboratively with
          town officials, but recognize when they attend meetings of other committees and boards
          they speak and act as individuals not for the committee as a whole and will disclose as
          such.
       9. We will adhere to the MASC social media guidelines

How We Will Improve
      1. All new School Committee members will attend an MASC orientation session as soon
          as practicable, but within one year of being elected.
      2. All members will be open to continued personal growth through participating in
          training opportunities in order to advance the work of our public schools.
      3. We shall review and revise operating protocols annually through an annual workshop.
      4. We shall develop and maintain a district new member orientation program.
      5. We shall develop annual School Committee performance objectives, or goals, and
         appraise progress through regular self-evaluation.


What Are Our Limits of Authority
      1. We shall exercise leadership in vision, planning, policy, budgeting, evaluation of the
          Superintendent of Schools, and advocacy of the district, consistent with the law and
          district policies.
      2. It is the Superintendent’s responsibility to oversee personnel issues and to manage the
          day-to-day operations of the district. It is the School Committee’s responsibility to evaluate the
          superintendent’s effectiveness in these matters.
       3. We shall recognize that authority rests only with the majority decision of the School
          Committee and we shall not make any independent commitments or take any independent
          actions that may compromise the School Committee as a whole.
      4. We shall follow the chain of command (Teacher, Principal, Superintendent) and direct others to
          do the same.
      5. Complaints and concerns regarding personnel will be directed to the Superintendent.
      6. We shall not use our positions for personal or partisan gain.
      7. We shall refer any important questions or concerns received from members of the community
          to the Superintendent. The Superintendent, not any School Committee member has the
          authority to investigate. The Superintendent shall provide committee members with his/her
          response. It is not the role of the School Committee to resolve issues.
                                                                      Marblehead School Committee

               MARBLEHEAD                                             9 Widger Road,
                                                                      Marblehead, MA 01945
               PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                         phone: 781.639.3140 x10114
                                                                      email:schoolcommittee@marbleheadschools.org

          Sarah Fox        Emily Barron             Sarah Gold          Meagan Taylor       Alison Taylor
          Chairman         Vice Chairman          Committee Member      Committee Member       Secretary


What Happens When Things Go Wrong

        1. We shall work together to clarify and restate discussions in order to strive for full understanding.
        2. We recognize the importance of honoring our agreed upon operating protocols and we agree
           to take responsibility for reminding one another when we get off track.
        3. We shall maintain fidelity to these commitments and will be held accountable by our fellow
           School Committee members should any of us fail to live up to these commitments. If a
           School Committee member or Superintendent violates any of the operating protocols,
           he/she will be referred to the Chairperson or in the case of the Chairperson to the Vice
           Chairperson.




Sarah Fox, Chairperson                     Emily Barron, Vice Chair




Alison Taylor, Secretary                   Sarah Gold, Committee Member




Meagan Taylor, Committee Member
____________________________________________________________________________________

                                 2022-2023 School Committee Meeting Dates



September
      1st Thursday Sept 1st / 3rd Thursday Sept 15th
      School begins for students on Tuesday Sept 6th
      Keep 1st and 3rd or hold off cycle on 8th and 22nd?

October
       1st Thursday- Oct 6th / 3rd Thursday-Oct 20th

November
     1st Thursday- Nov 3rd / 3rd Thursday-Nov 17th
     Joint conference is the 2nd-5th, move to Wed night the 2nd to allow members to attend 3 & 4th ?

December
      1st Thursday- Dec 1st / 3rd Thursday-Dec 15th
      1/2 day on Dec 15th for Pre-K-8 Parent Conferences (conflict at night)
      Select alternate date or schedule meeting at 7:30pm?

January
          1st Thursday- Jan 5th / 3rd Thursday-Jan 19th

February
       1st Thursday- Feb 2nd / 3rd Thursday-Feb 16th

March
          1st Thursday- Mar 2nd / 3rd Thursday-Mar 16th / 5th Thursday-Mar 30th
          Meet off cycle on the 30th to accommodate April break, which falls on 3rd Thursday in April

April
          2nd Thursday –Apr 13th / 3rd Thursday –Apr 20th (no school on 17th-21st=April break)
          One off cycle meeting in April

May
          1st Thursday- May 4th / 3rd Thursday-May 18th

June
          1st Thursday- Jun 1st/ 3rd Thursday-Jun 15th
