                                                                                  Office of the Superintendent
                                                                                  Dr. John J. Buckey
                   MARBLEHEAD                                                     9 Widger Road,
                   PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                                 Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                                  phone: 781.639.3140 x10114
                                                                                  fax: 781.639.3149



 Memo To:         Marblehead School Committee

 From:            Dr. John J. Buckey

 Re:              Thought Exchange Information

 Date:            September 7, 2022


The District has contracted with a new platform called Thought Exchange to engage better our
constituents and to provide an improved means beyond surveys and forums for obtaining input and
insights. From their website:

   ●     “Thought Exchange is the world’s number one discussion management platform education
         leaders use to solve complex problems and consult communities quickly. Include more people in
         less time—without getting lost in the data.”

   ●     "Town halls are dominated by loud voices. Surveys, polls, and focus groups leave you buried in
         endless data. Capture every perspective, linguistic group, and even the quietest of voices with
         our anti-bias technology, patented analytics, and multi-language capabilities.”
                                                                                Office of the Superintendent
                                                                                Dr. John J. Buckey
                 MARBLEHEAD                                                     9 Widger Road,
                 PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                                 Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                                phone: 781.639.3140 x10114
                                                                                fax: 781.639.3149


We also consulted area MA Superintendents and Districts who have been using their platform for a
variety of purposes.

   1. “We have had it for a decade, I use it for everything. Parent feedback, in lieu of focus groups,
      within meetings as warm ups, for town meeting messaging ideas, and we are about to use it in
      our override for our town budget. We used it in covid to gauge understanding and worries. It
      saves so much time and energy.”

   2. “We have been using Thought Exchange for just over a year. We think it is a good product, but
      there is definitely a learning curve for the community to get comfortable with it. One of our
      more successful attempts was related to ESSER III funding. I have attached the auto-generated
      slide deck for your review.”

   3. “We started using TE in 2017 as a tool for our strategic plan we were developing at the time. It
      was very useful for that purpose. Since then, we have used it for situations where an online
      survey isn’t as good a match, particularly where you are trying to see what consensus might be.
      For example, in a Survey Monkey or Google Form report, every comment is “equal” in the sense
      that they’re all listed, but the level of agreement with comments can’t be discerned. Thought
      Exchange gives you a pretty clear picture of sentiments that the stakeholders agree with or
      don’t agree with. We used it for a controversy around our school mascot, for example.”
  Welcome to
ThoughtExchange



yasmine.mehtadi@thoughtexchange.com
           778-834-8947
The leading discussion management
    platform for leaders who need
 to solve complex problems and get
    stakeholders aligned, quickly.
                                        ThoughtExchange
                                        How it Works




    Scale group            Receive candid,              Learn what people          Take decisive action that
discussions, quickly      unbiased answers               think in real time           everyone supports
    Leaders create an     Participants confidentially   ThoughtExchange provides             Leaders use
     Exchange asking       answer questions and             data-rich reports       ThoughtExchange insights to
  open-ended questions      objectively rate other        capturing top themes       align groups, prioritize next
    and share it widely     responses and ideas               and thoughts               steps and get ahead
What’s different about
ThoughtExchange?
                          Unlike meetings              Unlike surveys
                           Efficiently include and     Create many-to-many
                          consider all voices with      digital discussions to
                             patented anti-bias        uncover novel insights
                                 technology




                             Unlike polls              Unlike anything
                              Support strategic          Turn insights into
                         prioritization and get buy-   objective data-driven
                            in across the district          decisions
  Solutions for Leaders in Education
    Align Strategy                     Unlock Performance               Strengthen Community




    Inform Strategic Plan              Achieve Operational Excellence         Commit to DE&I




   Plan & Allocate Budget                Support Student Success          Ensure Safety & Belonging




Validate Facilities & Capitals Plans      Optimize Large Meetings         Enhance Staff Engagement
Contact me



             Yasmine Mehtadi
             Account Executive



             yasmine.mehtadi@thoughtexchange.com
             604-798-2757

             LI   linkedin.com/yasminemehtadi
https://videos.thoughtexchange.com/watch/hCxk8ybsRHf5KH1XSW3d4d?
Teachers provided feedback last spring about the schedule and the following
common themes in their feedback were addressed.

Longer WIN Block/ Consider moving to the morning
The WIN block has been moved to the morning and is scheduled to be a ½ hour block. It will
not be interrupted by transition time packing up at the end of the day. Tutors in Reading and
Math will be available to help during the WIN time.
In Kindergarten, this will be in the afternoon as students complete centers and can have
interventions during this time. This schedule allows math tutors to go into Kindergarten this
year.

Create a Snack/Read Aloud Time:
Teachers may create this time within their schedule when it works best for them.

Move the Math Block to the morning.
Math block has moved to the morning or an earlier time for all grades.

Transition Times
We understand that students will take a few minutes to transition between classes.

Movement Breaks:
Fortunately, this year students are coming in unmasked and are able to be near one another.
This allows for more group/ center based learning activities and opportunities for social
engagement. If your class is working hard, you can keep moving. We know that you offer many
social opportunities for students to engage throughout the day, however, if your class needs to
take a movement break or a walk outside, you can use your discretion to do this. You know the
needs of your students best.

Recess times:
Kindergarten has a morning and afternoon recess time.

First Grade has the earliest lunch so that they would have an early break. They have one class
after lunch and then an afternoon specialist class, giving them multiple times for movement and
socialization throughout the day.

Second Grade has specials in the morning which creates the morning motor break that they
need.

Third grade has a longer morning, being the older students, they have more stamina. They have
a longer mid day break with specialists and lunch/recess in the middle of the day. Classes may
take a break time at your discretion during the longer morning block.

The lunch recess has been extended by five minutes as students.
Other Curriculum Considerations:
Writing, Science and Social Studies have been placed back to back because it lends itself to
writing in these content areas.

Math/Reading Tutors will be able to help in WIN .
Special education teachers can go into math and reading for all grade levels as the schedule
waterfalls.
Memo: School Committee
Re: Glover and Brown Schedule


We appreciate you reaching out for clarification on the schedule. As Marblehead principals, we
worked together using teacher feedback from last year, and took great care to develop a PK-3
schedule. In collaboration with teachers, we used this feedback to create a schedule that works
best for children. Some of the key components of teacher feedback was shifting the WIN (What
I Need) Block to the morning for students as well as moving reading and math blocks to the
morning time. This shift alleviates cutting WIN short due to the transition of dismissal in the
afternoon time and will also allow our reading and math tutors more time to work with students
in each grade. In addition, there has been time added into the Pre-K schedule for social
emotional lessons with school counselors.


This schedule is well balanced with developmentally appropriate learning experiences provided
for all students. Students in kindergarten have two recesses. In grades 1-3, the recess at lunch
has been extended by five minutes. Teachers understand that at their discretion, based on the
working environment of their individual classes, they may take another break during the day.
This way, individual classes may keep moving if they have momentum or are engrossed in a
learning activity. We trust teachers to make decisions about when their individual classes or
students may need a break.


We both understand the importance of student engagement, specifically after a global
pandemic. We spoke about the schedule tweaks in our last video to parents and will continue
moving forward to share information and updates with parents. We understand that our
Marblehead families do not know us well yet. Moving forward, we hope you will trust that we are
always looking with a lens of what will best benefit children of Marblehead.


On September 29th, both Glover and Brown will have an Open House from 5:30-7PM. At this
time, the classroom teachers will share information about the curriculum and daily schedule.
                    MARBLEHEAD                                                        Office of the Superintendent
                                                                                      John J Buckey, Ed.D
                    PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                                    9 Widger Rd.
                                                                                      Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                                      781.639.3140 x10114


To:      Marblehead School Committee

From: John J. Buckey

Re:      Policy Revisions

Date:    August 26, 2022

The policy revisions included below are recommended by legal. Due to the revisions pertaining to policy
ac-nondiscrimination, it has been recommended that policies ACAB, ACA and and AC-R be rescinded. A
revised policy for ac-nondiscrimination is included along with outlined grievance procedures pertaining
to Title IX and Civil Rights. Also included is a new procedure for the reconsideration of library materials.

Adopt Grievance Procedures for Title IX and Civil Rights
Ensures that the District administration will be able to amend them as necessary when changes in the
law occur or in response to further guidance issued by the MA DESE and/or the US DOE

Revise Policies to Align with Adopted Procedures
Ensures they are in accordance with 2020 Title IX Sexual Harassment regulations and the FBI’s Uniform
Crime Reporting System (the definitions utilized by the U.S. DOE for purposes of the current Title IX
regulations)

        1. Replace Policy AC - Nondiscrimination with the attached Draft Revised Policy AC
           The Draft Revised Policy AC will comprehensively set out the District’s prohibition of
           discrimination and harassment based on all protected categories

        2. Rescind Draft Policy ACAB Revised - Sexual Harassment
           This Policy would be replaced with the Title IX Grievance Procedures to be approved in
           accordance with Draft Revised Policy AC

        3. Rescind Policy AC-R - Nondiscrimination and Harassment Prevention
           This Policy would be replaced with the General Civil Rights Grievance Procedure to be
           approved in accordance with Draft Revised Policy AC

        4. Rescind Policy ACA - Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Sex
           The attached Draft Revised Policy AC will comprehensively set out the District’s prohibition of
           discrimination and harassment based on all protected categories


Adopt Procedure for Reconsideration of Library Materials (IJ-R)
Revise Policies as Necessary to align with adopted procedure
                                                                                      File: ACAB

                                   SEXUAL HARASSMENT


Sexual harassment of students or of employees by other students, employees, vendors and other
third parties will not be tolerated in the Marblehead Public Schools (“District”). The alleged
harassment must involve conduct that occurred within the school’s own program or activity,
including at a location or under circumstances where the school owned, or substantially
controlled, the premises; exercised oversight, supervision or discipline over the location or
participants; or funded, sponsored, promoted or endorsed the event where the alleged harassment
occurred; and must have occurred against a person in the United States. This policy is in effect
while students are on school grounds, District property or property within the jurisdiction of the
District, on school buses, or while attending or engaging in school-sponsored activities.

Students whose behavior is found to be in violation of this policy will be subject to disciplinary
action up to and including suspension or expulsion pursuant to disciplinary codes. Employees
who have been found to violate this policy will be subject to discipline up to and including,
termination of employment, subject to contractual disciplinary obligations.

The District will promptly and reasonably investigate allegations of sexual harassment through
designation of a Title IX Coordinator and building based employees, as set forth below

Sexual harassment is unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature. The definition includes
unwelcome conduct on the basis of sex that is so severe, pervasive, and objectively offensive that
it effectively denies a person equal access to the school’s education program or activity. It also
includes unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal, nonverbal, or
physical conduct of a sexual nature. Sexual harassment includes conduct by an employee
conditioning an educational benefit or service upon a person’s participation in unwelcome sexual
conduct, often called quid pro quo harassment and, sexual assault as the Federal Clery Act
defines that crime.

While it is not possible to list all those additional circumstances that may constitute sexual
harassment, the following are some examples of conduct which, if unwelcome, may constitute
sexual harassment, depending on the totality of the circumstances, including the severity of the
conduct and its pervasiveness:

   ● Unwelcome sexual advances—whether they involve physical touching or not;
   ● Sexual epithets, jokes, written or oral references to sexual conduct, gossip regarding
     one’s sex life; comment on an individual’s body, comment about an individual’s sexual
     activity, deficiencies, or prowess;
   ● Displaying sexually suggestive objects, pictures, cartoons;
   ● Unwelcome leering, whistling, brushing against the body, sexual gestures, suggestive or
     insulting comments;
   ● Inquiries into one’s sexual experiences; and,
   ● Discussion of one’s sexual activities.

The legal definition of sexual harassment is broad and in addition to the above examples other
sexually oriented conduct, whether it is intended or not, that is unwelcome and has the effect of
creating an environment that is hostile, offensive, intimidating, to male, female, or gender non-
conforming students or employees may also constitute sexual harassment.

Because the District takes allegations of sexual harassment seriously, we will respond promptly
to complaints of sexual harassment and, following an investigation where it is determined that
such inappropriate conduct has occurred, we will act promptly to eliminate the conduct and
impose corrective action as is necessary, including disciplinary action where appropriate.

Please note that while this policy sets forth our goals of promoting an environment that is free of
sexual harassment, the policy is not designed or intended to limit our authority to discipline or
take remedial action for conduct which we deem unacceptable, regardless of whether that
conduct satisfies the definition of sexual harassment. For example, conduct that constitutes
harassment other than sexual harassment, bullying, violation of the student discipline code or
school district workplace rules, unlawful discrimination, hazing, or student misconduct statutes,
will be investigated and addressed under the District relevant policies and the applicable laws.

A complainant is an individual who is alleged to be the victim of conduct that could constitute
sexual harassment. A respondent is an individual who has been reported to be the perpetrator of
conduct that could constitute sexual harassment or a violation of this policy.

Retaliation against a complainant because the complainant has filed a sexual harassment
complaint or assisted or participated in a sexual harassment investigation or proceeding, is also
prohibited. A student or employee who is found to have retaliated against another in violation of
this policy will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including student suspension and
expulsion or employee termination.

The complainant does not have to be the person at whom the unwelcome sexual conduct is
directed. The complainant, regardless of gender, may be a witness to and personally offended by
such conduct.

NOTICE OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT

The regulations require a school district to respond when the district has actual knowledge of
sexual harassment. Schools must treat seriously all reports of sexual harassment that meet the
definition of sexual harassment and the conditions of actual notice and jurisdiction, whether or
not the complainant files a formal complaint. A formal complaint is a document filed by a
complainant or signed by the Title IX Coordinator alleging sexual harassment against a
respondent and requesting that the District investigate the allegation of sexual harassment.
Schools are required to investigate every formal complaint and respond meaningfully to every
known report of sexual harassment.
Upon receipt of allegations the Title IX Coordinator shall promptly contact the complainant
confidentially to discuss the availability of supportive measures, consider the complainant’s
wishes with respect to supportive measures, inform the complainant that supportive measures are
available with or without the filing of a formal complaint, and explain the process for filing a
formal complaint. Supportive measures include, but are not limited to, non-disciplinary, non-
punitive individualized services offered as appropriate, as reasonably available, and without fee
or charge to the complainant or the respondent before or after the filing of a formal complaint or
where no formal complaint has been filed. Such measures are designed to restore or preserve
equal access to education programs or activities without unreasonably burdening the other party,
including measures designed to protect the safety of all parties or the District’s educational
environment, or to deter sexual harassment. Supportive measures may include counseling,
extensions of deadlines or other course-related adjustments, modifications of work or class
schedules, school building/campus escort services, mutual restrictions on contact between the
parties, changes in work locations, leaves of absence, increased security and monitoring of
certain areas of the building/campus, and other similar measures.

Where there has been a finding of responsibility, the regulations require remedies designed to
restore or preserve access to the school’s education program or activity.

DUE PROCESS PROTECTIONS

Due process protections in connection with investigation and decision-making regarding a
complaint include the following:

   1) If the allegations do not meet the definition of sexual harassment or do not satisfy the
      requirements regarding location or connection to an educational program of the school
      district, the allegations shall be dismissed for purposes of Title IX, but may be
      investigated and addressed under other prohibitions in the student discipline code,
      relevant collective bargaining agreements or other laws under which they fit;
   2) A presumption of innocence throughout the grievance process, with the burden of proof
      on the school;
   3) A complainant’s wishes with respect to whether the school investigates will be respected
      unless the Title IX Coordinator determines that signing a formal complaint to initiate an
      investigation over the wishes of the complainant is not clearly unreasonable in light of the
      known circumstances;
   4) A prohibition of the single investigator model, instead requiring a decision –maker
      separate from the Title IX Coordinator or investigator;
   5) Proof by a preponderance of the evidence, subject to limitations;
   6) The opportunity to test the credibility of parties and witnesses through disclosure of
      evidence and opportunity to submit additional questions, subject to “rape shield”
      protections;
   7) Written notice of allegations and an equal opportunity to review the evidence upon filing
      a formal complaint;
   8) An objective evaluation of all relevant evidence, inculpatory and exculpatory, and
      avoidance of credibility determinations based on a person’s status as a complainant, a
      respondent, or a witness;
   9) Title IX Coordinators, investigators, and decision-makers must be trained and free from
       bias or conflict of interest;
   10) A right to appeal from a determination regarding responsibility and from a dismissal of a
       formal complaint or the allegations therein, where the determination or dismissal
       involved any of the following: procedural irregularity that affected the outcome; newly-
       discovered evidence that could affect the outcome; or the Title IX Coordinator, the
       investigator, or the decision-maker had a conflict of interest or bias that affected the
       outcome;
   11) As long as the process is voluntary for all parties, after being fully informed and written
       consent is provided by both parties, a school may facilitate informal resolution of a
       formal sexual complaint, but no such informal resolution can be used where the
       allegations are that an employee sexually harassed a student.

A district may establish an informal investigation process that may, upon the request of the
complainant be followed by a formal process.

The Title IX Coordinator(s) in the District are Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent, 9 Widger
Road, Marblehead, MA 01945, 781-639-3140 and Eric Oxford, Director of Student Services, 9
Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945, 781-639-3140. The Title IX Coordinator or the school
building Principal shall be the initial entity to receive the sexual harassment complaint. In all
cases the Title IX Coordinator shall be informed, as soon as possible, of the filing of the
complaint. Nothing in this policy shall prevent any person from reporting the prohibited conduct
to someone other than those above designated complaint recipients. An employee with actual
knowledge of conduct that may violate this policy must report to the Title IX Coordinator.

The District may remove a respondent on an emergency basis after undertaking an individualized
safety and risk analysis and determining that an immediate threat to the physical health or safety
of any student or other individual arising from the allegations justifies removal. The District will
provide the respondent with written notice and an opportunity to challenge the decision
immediately following the removal in accordance with any applicable laws, collective bargaining
agreements and student handbooks.

INVESTIGATIONS

The investigating officer shall be an Assistant Principal in the building or other appropriate
administrator designated by the Principal. The Investigating Officer(s) in the District are Michele
Carlson Assistant Principal, Marblehead High School 2 Humphrey St, Marblehead, MA 01945,
781-639-3100 and Stephen Gallo, Assistant Principal, the Village School, 93 Village St.
Marblehead, MA 01945, 781-639-3159. The investigation shall be conducted in such a way as to
maintain confidentiality to the extent practicable under the circumstances and in compliance with
applicable law. The investigation will be prompt, thorough, and impartial, and will include, at
least, a private interview with the complainant, with the respondent, and with witnesses. The
investigator shall give the parties equal opportunity to present fact and expert witnesses and other
inculpatory and exculpatory evidence; shall give each party the same opportunity to select an
advisor of the party’s choice who may, but need not be, an attorney; shall send written notice of
all interviews or meetings; shall send to the parties evidence directly related to the allegations, in
electronic form or hard copy, with at least ten (10) school days for the parties to inspect, review,
and respond; and shall prepare and submit an investigative report that fairly summarizes the
relevant evidence to the decision-maker, who shall be the Principal or his/her designee (other
than the investigator).

The investigator shall strive to complete investigations within twenty-five (25) school days of the
filing of the formal complaint or resumption of the investigation after an unsuccessful
information resolution meeting.

During the investigation, the investigator shall take the following steps:

   1) The investigator will interview the complainant to obtain a clear understanding of that
      complainant’s allegations within five (5) school days of the filing of the formal complaint
      provided that the complainant is available to be interviewed by the investigator.

   2) The investigator will interview the respondent to obtain a response to the complainant’s
      allegations from the respondent within five (5) school days of the interview with the
      complainant provided that the respondent is available to be interviewed with the
      investigator.

   3) The investigator will interview witnesses identified by the complainant or respondent
      within five (5) school days of being identified as a potential witness by the complainant
      or respondent provided the witness is available. The investigator will interview witnesses
      as the investigator deems necessary.

   4) The investigator will hold as many meetings or interviews with the parties and any
      witnesses as is necessary to make factual findings.
The timelines above are subject to the District’s goal to complete investigations generally within
twenty-five (25) school days but may be extended for good cause upon written notice to the
complainant and respondent. The timeline for investigation may be suspended during any
informal resolution procedure or meeting. Each party is entitled to be accompanied in interviews
by an advisor, who may be a parent/guardian or an attorney, but who may only have limited
participation in interviews. Translators will be provided upon request.

After all interviews are conducted and evidence is obtained, the parties and if applicable, their
advisors, will have an equal opportunity to inspect, review and respond to any evidence obtained.
Prior to completion of the investigative report, the investigator will send each party all evidence
subject to inspection and review and provide each party at least ten (10) school days to provide a
response to the investigator. Evidence to be shared may be redacted to protect confidential
information under the Family and Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) or other
federal or state laws and regulations.

The investigator will draft an investigation report that fairly summarizes the relevant evidence
including, but not limited to, interviews with parties and witnesses, written evidence, audio/video
recordings, and site visits. The investigator will provide the decision maker, with a report
including all evidence obtained during the course of the investigation. The decision-maker shall
upon receipt send the report in electronic format or hard copy to the parties and their advisors
with ten (10) school days for the parties to respond, including submitting written relevant
questions that each party wants asked of a party or witness, subject to the protections of the Rape
Shield Law. Before reaching a determination, the decision-maker shall provide to the parties the
answers to the submitted questions and the opportunity for limited follow up questions.

DETERMINATIONS

The decision-maker shall issue a written determination regarding responsibility with findings of
fact, conclusions about whether the alleged conduct occurred, the rationale for the result as to
each allegation, any disciplinary sanctions imposed on the respondent, and whether remedies will
be provided to the complainant. The Decision-maker(s) in the District are the individual
building principals.

The decision maker assigned will have no conflicts with or biases against either the complainant
of the respondent and the decision maker will not be the Title IX Coordinator assigned in the
matter or the investigator for the complaint. The decision maker shall review all of the evidence
and issue a written determination within fifteen (15) school days of receipt of the matter from the
investigator, absent extenuating circumstances. If the decision maker substantiates the
allegations of sexual harassment, the decision maker may recommend or impose discipline
against the respondent. If the decision maker does not substantiate the allegations of sexual
harassment, the complaint will be dismissed.

The written determination shall include: (1) identification of the allegations potentially
constituting sexual harassment; (2) a description of the procedural steps taken from the receipt of
the formal complaint through the determination, including any notifications to the parties,
interviews with parties and witnesses, site visits, and methods used to gather evidence; (3)
findings of fact supporting the determination; (4) conclusions as to whether District policies were
violated; (5) a statement of the result of each allegation, including a determination regarding
responsibility, disciplinary action to be imposed on the respondent, and whether remedies
designed to preserve equal access to the District’s education program or activity will be provided
to the complainant; and (6) the District’s procedures and permissible bases for appeal.
Confidential student record information and personnel information may be redacted consistent
with and as required by state and federal law. The decision-maker shall provide the written
determination to the complainant(s) and respondent(s).

APPEALS

Appeals must be submitted to the Title IX Coordinator within five (5) school days of receipt of
the written determination and contain a written statement in support or challenge of the outcome.
The Appeal Officer in the District is Dr. John J. Buckey, Superintendent of Schools, 9 Widger
Rd, Marblehead, MA 01945, 781-639-3140.

When an appeal is filed, the District shall notify the other party and ensure that the individual
deciding the appeal is not the same person as the decision maker who reached the determination
regarding responsibility and that the individual has no conflicts of interests and is free of bias.
The non-appealing party shall have five (5) school days from the date of receipt of the notice of
the appeal to submit a written statement to support or oppose the outcome.

The individual deciding the appeal shall issue a written decision describing the result of the
appeal and rationale for the decision and provide the decision to both parties generally within ten
(10) school days of receipt of the non-appealing party’s written statement, or in the event no
statement is submitted, the date the statement would have been due.


RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENTS

Schools must create and maintain records documenting every Title IX sexual harassment
complaint. This could include mediation, restorative justice, or other models of alternative
dispute resolution. Schools must keep records regarding the school’s response to every report of
sexual harassment of which it becomes aware even if no formal complaint was filed, including
documentation of supportive matters offered and implemented for the complainant.

This policy, or a summary thereof that contain the essential policy elements shall be distributed
by the District to its students and employees and each parent or guardian shall sign that they have
received and understand the policy.

Please note that the following entities have specified time limits for filing a claim.

The Complainant may also file a complaint with:

   ● The Mass. Commission Against Discrimination
   ● 1 Ashburton Place, Room 601
     Boston, MA 02108.
     Phone: 617-994-6000.
   ● Office for Civil Rights (U.S. Department of Education)
     5 Post Office Square, 8th Floor
     Boston, MA 02109.
     Phone: 617-289-0111.
   ● The United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission,
     John F. Kennedy Bldg.
     475 Government Center
     Boston, MA 02203.


LEGAL REF.:            M.G.L. 151B:3A
                       Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972
                       BESE 603 CMR 26:00
                       34 CFR 106.44 (a), (a)-(b)
                       34 CFR 106.45 (a)-(b) (1)
                       34 CFR 106.45 (b)(2)-(b)(3,4,5,6,7) as revised through June 2020
SOURCE: MASC July 2020
Marblehead Public Schools -Approved 9/17/2020
                                                                                              File: ACA

                         NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF SEX

The School Committee, in accordance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, declares
that the school system does not and will not discriminate on the basis of sex in the educational programs
and activities of the public schools. This policy will extend not only to students with regard to
educational opportunities, but also to employees with regard to employment opportunities.
The School Committee will continue to ensure fair and equitable educational and employment
opportunities, without regard to sex, to all of its students and employees.

The Committee will designate an individual to act as the school system's Title IX compliance officer.
All students and employees will be notified of the name and office address and telephone number of the
compliance officer.

LEGAL REFS.:          Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972
                      45 CFR, Part 86, (Federal Register, 6/4/75)
                      M.G.L. 76:5; 76:16 (Chapter 622 of the Acts of 1971)
                      BESE 603 CMR 26:00
CROSS REF.:           AC, Nondiscrimination

SOURCE: MASC/Marblehead
Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
                                                                           Marblehead School Committee

                   MARBLEHEAD                                              9 Widger Road,
                                                                           Marblehead, MA 01945
                   PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                          phone: 781.639.3140 x10114
                                                                           email:schoolcommittee@marbleheadschools.org

             Sarah Fox        Emily Baron              Sarah Gold             Meagan Taylor          Alison Taylor
             Chairman         Vice Chairman         Committee Member          Committee Member           Secretary


From original: The Marblehead School Committee values and views as our top priority the academic, social and
emotional success of all students in our district. We agree to thoughtfully seek and support solutions that
will provide the greatest benefit to students


Who We Represent
        1. We represent the educational and developmental needs and interests of all students in the district. We
             place their interests above all others in the decisions we make.

How We Govern
          1. We acknowledge that a School Committee meeting is a meeting of the School Committee that
              is held in public – not a public meeting.
          2. We shall conduct business through a set agenda that should be connected to district goals.
              Emerging items shall be addressed in subsequent meetings through planned agenda items
              unless it is determined by the School Committee Chairperson that it would be detrimental to
              delay the issue until a subsequent meeting.
          3. Requests to add items to an agenda by members shall be made to the Superintendent or the
              School Committee Chairperson in accordance with the law.
          4. We shall strive to make each meeting effective and efficient giving each member an
              equal opportunity to express their views and opinions and to relay their input in a
              concise and topic-focused manner. No one member should monopolize the discussion.
              All remarks must be directed through the Chair. Remarks must be courteous in
              language and deportment.
          5. We shall make decisions after considering data, the Superintendent’s recommendations,
              proposals, and suggestions. We will engage in open-minded, respectful debate, vote our
              convictions, avoid bias, and uphold and support the decision of the majority of the
              Committee once a decision is made. We will explain the reasons for our votes.
          6. We shall exhibit professional conduct and behavior.
          7. We shall attend meetings well-prepared to discuss issues on the agenda and to participate
              in efficient decision-making.
          8. When we are in committee we will remain in our committee member role throughout
              the meeting.
          9. We shall ensure that we do not breach the open meeting laws by deliberating outside of
              duly convened meetings of the committee.
          10. The School Committee welcomes respectful, thoughtful input from the public in shaping
              committee decisions. Public input at meetings may be made on items on the agenda, or
              otherwise at the discretion of the Chairperson.
          11. We acknowledge the importance of subcommittees, and the Superintendent agrees to utilize
              them to focus on a specific topic in‐depth and to prepare for presentation, deliberation and
              possible action by the full School Committee. We will agree on the appropriate School
              Committee participation on subcommittees.
                                                                   Marblehead School Committee

              MARBLEHEAD                                           9 Widger Road,
                                                                   Marblehead, MA 01945
              PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                       phone: 781.639.3140 x10114
                                                                   email:schoolcommittee@marbleheadschools.org

         Sarah Fox      Emily Barron           Sarah Gold            Megan Taylor         Alison Taylor
         Chairman        Vice Chairman       Committee Member        Committee Member        Secretary



       12. School Committee members will maintain privileged information and respect the confidentiality
          of Executive Session.
       13. Our actions shall be consistent with the core values of the district, and be consistent with
          our vision of a high class organization.
       14. School Committee meetings will be guided by the Open Meeting law and Roberts Rules of
           Order.
       15. The Superintendent of Schools and such staff as are needed to advise the Committee shall
           be seated at the Committee table.
       16. School Committee members will familiarize themselves with and uphold all district policies.
           Specifically, policies relating to governance (BHC, BBAA, BIA, BHE, BCA, BDD).


How We Treat Each Other
       1. We shall debate the issues keeping an open mind to other member’s opinions and/or positions.
       2. We shall work to build trust between and among School Committee members, the
          Superintendent and the Administration by treating everyone with dignity and respect, even in
          times of disagreement.

How We Communicate
       1. It is the School Committee’s responsibility to set a positive tone for the district.

       2. The Superintendent and the School Committee recognize the importance of proactive
          communication. If School Committee members have questions or concerns, they agree
          to contact the Superintendent well in advance of a meeting. They agree that there will
          be no surprises.
       3. We shall channel requests for information through the Superintendent and/or the School
          Committee Chairperson rather than directly to district staff or Town officials. Town officials
          shall channel requests for information through the Chairperson or Superintendent for
          consideration by the School Committee.
       4. We shall provide full disclosure of information and not withhold information from other
          members.
       5. We shall advocate for the public schools and public education as ambassadors of the school
          system by promoting support for public education and spreading the news of our success.
          We shall always strive to project a positive image.
       6. We recognize the Chairperson, or her/his designee, as the official spokesperson of the
          School Committee, including, but not limited to, legal counsel and official media requests.
       7. The Superintendent and the School Committee recognize the importance of working
          collaboratively with the community to improve our schools and we shall actively seek ways
          to enlist community support for our efforts.
                                                                  Marblehead School Committee

              MARBLEHEAD                                          9 Widger Road,
                                                                  Marblehead, MA 01945
              PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                      phone: 781.639.3140 x10114
                                                                  email:schoolcommittee@marbleheadschools.org

         Sarah Fox      Emily Barron          Sarah Gold            Meagan Taylor       Alison Taylor
         Chairman        Vice Chairman     Committee Member         Committee Member       Secretary


       8. School Committee members acknowledge the importance of working collaboratively with
          town officials, but recognize when they attend meetings of other committees and boards
          they speak and act as individuals not for the committee as a whole and will disclose as
          such.
       9. We will adhere to the MASC social media guidelines

How We Will Improve
      1. All new School Committee members will attend an MASC orientation session as soon
          as practicable, but within one year of being elected.
      2. All members will be open to continued personal growth through participating in
          training opportunities in order to advance the work of our public schools.
      3. We shall review and revise operating protocols annually through an annual workshop.
      4. We shall develop and maintain a district new member orientation program.
      5. We shall develop annual School Committee performance objectives, or goals, and
         appraise progress through regular self-evaluation.


What Are Our Limits of Authority
      1. We shall exercise leadership in vision, planning, policy, budgeting, evaluation of the
          Superintendent of Schools, and advocacy of the district, consistent with the law and
          district policies.
      2. It is the Superintendent’s responsibility to oversee personnel issues and to manage the
          day-to-day operations of the district. It is the School Committee’s responsibility to evaluate the
          superintendent’s effectiveness in these matters.
       3. We shall recognize that authority rests only with the majority decision of the School
          Committee and we shall not make any independent commitments or take any independent
          actions that may compromise the School Committee as a whole.
      4. We shall follow the chain of command (Teacher, Principal, Superintendent) and direct others to
          do the same.
      5. Complaints and concerns regarding personnel will be directed to the Superintendent.
      6. We shall not use our positions for personal or partisan gain.
      7. We shall refer any important questions or concerns received from members of the community
          to the Superintendent. The Superintendent, not any School Committee member has the
          authority to investigate. The Superintendent shall provide committee members with his/her
          response. It is not the role of the School Committee to resolve issues.
                                                                      Marblehead School Committee

               MARBLEHEAD                                             9 Widger Road,
                                                                      Marblehead, MA 01945
               PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                         phone: 781.639.3140 x10114
                                                                      email:schoolcommittee@marbleheadschools.org

          Sarah Fox        Emily Barron             Sarah Gold          Meagan Taylor       Alison Taylor
          Chairman         Vice Chairman          Committee Member      Committee Member       Secretary


What Happens When Things Go Wrong

        1. We shall work together to clarify and restate discussions in order to strive for full understanding.
        2. We recognize the importance of honoring our agreed upon operating protocols and we agree
           to take responsibility for reminding one another when we get off track.
        3. We shall maintain fidelity to these commitments and will be held accountable by our fellow
           School Committee members should any of us fail to live up to these commitments. If a
           School Committee member or Superintendent violates any of the operating protocols,
           he/she will be referred to the Chairperson or in the case of the Chairperson to the Vice
           Chairperson.




Sarah Fox, Chairperson                     Emily Barron, Vice Chair




Alison Taylor, Secretary                   Sarah Gold, Committee Member




Meagan Taylor, Committee Member
PROTOCOLS AND BEST PRACTICES
FOR EFFECTIVE
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETINGS




         An Annotated Review of Samples of Personal Norms,
    Statements of Principles and Beliefs, and Meeting Best Practices




          MASSACHUSETTS ASSOCIATION OF SCHOOL COMMITTEES

                               2012‐2013
                      SAMPLE –AND BELIEFS                                                          Updated 2012




    A WORD ABOUT “NORMS AND BELIEFS”

    School Committee members are elected public officials, selected by their fellow citizens to act in their
    interests and empowered to act as they see their duty to work for the children of their community.
    Although rules of order are essential to an effective public meeting, personal norms and protocols to guide
    individual or group behaviors are neither established in law nor subject to imposition by anyone outside the
    board itself. Many people think it is demeaning and condescending to attempt to prescribe behaviors on
    those whom the people have chosen to represent them, especially adults who are perfectly capable of
    managing themselves. MASC has encouraged effective School Committees to find their own balance and to
    encourage collegiality, diligence and diligence in their work. We respectfully offer these recommendations,
    based on the work of several Massachusetts School Committees, as voluntary guidelines to help make their
    meetings productive and effective. We have annotated most of these model norms, beliefs and protocols to
    put in perspective recommendations for model practices, noting that one person’s norms and protocols may
    be another person’s unwillingly imposed standards. Democracy demands the individual use one’s best
    judgment as one perceives it rather than succumbing to the will of another, whether it is resolving a matter
    of policy, fulfilling your fiduciary responsibilities, or providing leadership.

    SAMPLE NORMS AND BELIEFS

    How We Govern

    1. We acknowledge that a School Committee meeting is a meeting of the School Committee that is held
    in public – not a public meeting, and we will make every effort to ensure that Committee meetings are
    effective and efficient.1

    2. School Committee members agree to thoughtfully seek and support solutions that will provide the
    greatest benefit to students. Once the School Committee has taken action, Committee members will
    support the official position of the School Committee.2

    3. It is the responsibility of the Superintendent to oversee the hiring, evaluation and handling of
    personnel issues; it is the responsibility of the School Committee to evaluate the Superintendent’s
    effectiveness in these matters.

    4. We acknowledge the importance of subcommittees, and the Superintendent agrees to utilize them to
    focus on a specific topic in‐depth and to prepare for presentation, deliberation and possible action by
    the full School Committee.

    5. School Committee members agree to recognize and respect that their authority exists when a
    quorum of the Committee meets and not as individual Committee members.

1
  This is an important distinction because the public does not have an inherent right to speak or participate without recognition by the
chair or entitlement through your municipal charter.
2
  Some individuals object to this provision because it stifles dissent and disagreement. It is important to note that “supporting the
official position of the school committee” does not preclude principled disagreement or future attempts to change policy, but simply
not to undermine the work of the majority’s policy of the district.
                       SAMPLE –AND BELIEFS                                                           Updated 2012

    How We Communicate

    1. It is our responsibility to set the tone for the entire school system, and we will make every effort to
    promote a positive image for our school system. The Superintendent will be visible in the community,
    and we will operate transparently and respectfully, maintain confidentiality, and respect the Open
    Meeting laws.

    2. The Superintendent and the School Committee recognize the importance of proactive communication
    and agree that there will be no surprises.3 If School Committee members have questions or concerns, they
    agree to contact the Superintendent well in advance of a meeting.

    3. We agree that discussion will be limited to the agenda, and items will not be added to the agenda
    unless it is determined by the Superintendent and the School Committee Chairperson that it would be
    detrimental to delay the issue until a subsequent meeting.4

    4. The Superintendent will share an annual planning calendar with School Committee members. If a
    member wishes to add an item to a future agenda, he or she should make a request to the
    Superintendent or the School Committee Chairperson.5 In turn, they will consult other members, as well
    as the annual planning calendar to gauge interest and alignment.

    5. School Committee members agree to refer important questions and concerns they receive from
    members of the school community to the Superintendent. The Superintendent will investigate and
    provide all Committee members with the information needed to respond to an issue.6

    6. School Committee members will channel requests for information, reports and data through the
    Superintendent and the School Committee Chair rather than directly to staff. The Superintendent will
    ensure that each member has equal access to this information.7

    7. The Superintendent intends to seek comprehensive solutions to problems and will create clear
    structures for decision‐making. In the spirit of continuous improvement, these structures may be
    revisited at any time.

    8. The Superintendent and School Committee recognize the importance of working collaboratively with
    City officials to improve our schools, and we will actively seek ways to enlist their support in our efforts.


3
  “Surprises” is a relative term, but it is appropriate to make sure that superintendents are aware of important issues or challenging
questions that will be posed at a meeting. This does not preclude a member from asking a question or raising a point that arises
during the course of a discussion or debate that, despite the most noble of intentions, could not be anticipated. This is often linked to
“full disclosure” noted below.
4
  Massachusetts law precludes the school committee from raising an issue that could not have been reasonably anticipated by the
chair. This protocol as stated on the list imposes an additional responsibility upon members not to push for discussions for which the
superintendent or staff may be unprepared. While it is a good idea to allow the superintendent and chair to have the discretion to
make a determination, a principled school committee member who feels genuinely that a late‐breaking issue is important should not
be discouraged from asking colleagues to take up a matter that is critical to some but not to others.
5
  The agenda is the property of the school committee. Developing the agenda is often delegated to the chair or to the superintendent
and chair.
6
  This is a best practice to follow. However, citizens have an unrestricted right to contact their elected officials and this right may not
be abridged by the superintendent or chair. Once you have listened respectfully to your constituents and asked if they have
approached the appropriate administrator, you should quickly make the referral to the superintendent.
7
  Requests for information, reports or tasks to be performed have taken on the title of “vanity projects.” They are problematic
because they require the time and attention of the superintendent or staff and may not be of interest to the rest of the school
committee. For that reason, it is often a policy that these requests are channeled through the school committee as a body or through
the chair. However, as is stated, it is critical to the longevity of the superintendent that information be shared with everyone.
                SAMPLE –AND BELIEFS                                               Updated 2012
How We Improve

1. School Committee members and the Superintendent recognize the importance of professional
growth and development, and they agree to participate in experiences designed to further their
knowledge and understanding and to advance the work of our public schools.

2. In addition, School Committee members will participate in formal training organized by the
Superintendent and the School Committee Chairperson and conducted by organizations such as the
Massachusetts Association of School Committees (MASC) and/or Massachusetts Association of School
Superintendents (MASS).

3. All new School Committee members will participate in an orientation session, and if desired, a School
Committee mentor will be assigned.

4. The Superintendent and the School Committee agree to set aside time on an annual basis for self‐
evaluation and to review our progress toward adhering to agreed upon norms and beliefs.

5. We recognize the importance of honoring our agreed upon norms and beliefs, and we agree to take
responsibility for reminding one another when we get off track.

   [These norms and protocols were adapted from original work by the Taunton School Committee in 2012.
 MASC notes that reasonable individuals will have rational disagreements about meanings or appropriateness of
                                           terms from time to time. ]
                      SAMPLE –AND BELIEFS                                                            Updated 2012


OTHER NORMS, BELIEFS AND PROTOCOLS THAT SCHOOL DISTRICTS MAY CONSIDER

    Come to Meetings Prepared8
    Creating an Environment for Full and Free Debate, or “Civil Discourse” in a Safe Environment9
    Addressing Issues and Avoiding the Ad Hominem Attack10
    Obligation to Represent All Students
    Obligation to Utilize Vision, Planning, and Policy Making in Decision11
    Full Disclosure12
    Blogging and Social Media13
    Expectations for the Chair and Other Officers14
    Set Appropriate Examples for the Employees in the School District15




8
  Nothing slows down a meeting more than taking time to explain that information which is in the pre‐meeting packet for review.
9
  This targets intellectual bullies or others who would intimidate colleagues from raising or addressing important questions. It also
speaks to those who would demand “civil discourse” as a vehicle to silence principled critics who may become passionate. Nothing
should prevent a member from raising one’s voice in passionate argument as opposed to shouting down someone else’s point of view.
10
   While it can be tempting to attack the individual making an argument as a way of refuting that perspective, members are
encouraged to focus on the issue and the facts rather than on personalities.
11
   This generally is expressed with a specific intent of avoiding intrusion into administrative decision making or general school district
day‐to‐day operations. It is a help in defining the criteria a school committee will use in determining whether an important matter
falls under the legal authority, policy responsibility or fiduciary obligation of the school committee, or administrative duties of the
superintendent.
12
   Full disclosure includes not only providing all information necessary for administrators to respond as well as that which is of interest
to the rest of the school committee. There are also implications for disclosing conflicts of interest and other matters under the state
ethics law.
13
   Blogs are unrestricted devices for constitutionally protected free speech. In some cases, they can have the status of legitimate
media to exercise freedom of the press as well. However, they can also be vehicles to upstage or undermine colleagues or school
administrators. No one can force an elected official to restrict the use of them, but it is a good idea for school committee members to
exercise discretion and good judgment in maintaining a web site, social media page, or blog.
14
   The chair is the servant of the school committee, not the master. As such, the chair must represent both school committee
members and citizens, present or absent, to ensure that the meetings are fair and that all members are treated equally and fairly.
Other than presiding and the duties inherent in that role, the chair takes one’s authority from the membership. The chair recognizes
that the agenda is the property of the membership, not the chair or the superintendent.
15
   Everyone watches the school committee: Do you entertain calls from citizens, staff or other elected officials? Do you intervene in
personnel matters? Are you focusing on student achievement or political advancement? Staff take their cues from the board. If
school committee members engage in practices that may undermine the administrative leadership, faculty and parents will often
encourage those inappropriate practices for personal advantage.
                   SAMPLE –AND BELIEFS                                                Updated 2012



Protocols Worksheet - How do we do Business?
Issues16                       Do We have       How will we handle this?         Do we need a             Do we need a
                               a concern in                                      written protocol?        policy?
                               this area?



Committee Room Layout

Seating arrangement at
Committee table
Placement of the
Superintendent and staff
in the Committee room
Developing the Committee
meeting agenda
Structure of the
Committee agenda
Placing something on the
Committee agenda
Getting questions
answered about items on
the agenda before a
meeting
Public input at Committee
meetings
Deliberation at Committee
meetings
Informal Committee
reports at Committee
meetings
Allowing the majority vote
to set direction for the
school district
Reaction when not in the
majority
Bringing agenda items
back for further discussion
Explaining “no” votes

Length of meetings

Sharing expertise on
issues
Bringing up new ideas

Requesting information
from staff

16
  Issues often relate to the following areas – Effective Meetings, Board/Member relations, Board/Superintendent
relations, Board/Staff relations, Board/Community relations.
                     SAMPLE –AND BELIEFS                                   Updated 2012
Issues16                     Do We have     How will we handle this?   Do we need a        Do we need a
                             a concern in                              written protocol?   policy?
                             this area?



Individual Committee
member requests for
information
Individual Committee
member requests for
action
Handling complaints from
the community
Handling complaints from
staff
Handling complaints from
Committee members
Addressing concerns of
the community
Use of subcommittees

Use of work sessions

Confidentiality

Committee member role in
public
Committee/member
communications
Committee/Superintendent
communications
Committee Staff
communications
Visiting Schools

Self-evaluation of
governance team
effectiveness
Handling of email

Superintendent Evaluation

Goal setting and planning
                                  2022-2023 School Committee Sub-Committees and Liaisons
Note: Subcommittee recommendations are brought back to the School Committee for action          (policy BDE)

I. Sub-Committees (requires vote):
 Sub-Committees of                        Description of Sub-Committee                      2021-2022        2022-2023
 School Committee                                     Activities                          Former Reps       Current Reps
                            Support budget development process via working session
                                                                                              David             Sarah
                            with Superintendent and Business staff, provide
                                                                                          Harris/Meagan       Fox/Alison
        Budget              constructive input into the budget strategy and output, and
                                                                                              Taylor            Taylor
                            support efforts with FinCom and the Town

     (Curriculum)
      Teaching &                                                                              N/A
       Learning

       Facilities           Annual review of yearly facilities maintenance plan,                                Sarah
                                                                                          Emily Barron
      Committee             capital outlays, and long term facilities’ needs                                  Fox/Alison
                                                                                           /Sarah Fox
                                                                                                                Taylor
         Policy             Remain current in MPS curriculum                                 Emily              Emily
                            development/alignment as progresses across disciplines        Barron/Sarah       Barron/Sarah
                                                                                              Gold               Gold
       Building             Meet with Bldg. Comm. Bldg. Comm./report back to SC              David
      Committee             Minutes approved to Bldg. Comm.                               Harris/Sarah           N/A
                                                                                              Fox

II. Superintendent’s Advisory

 Safety Advisory            Develop and maintain district safety plans in collaboration
                                                                                            Sarah Fox
                            with Town Officials                                                                Sarah Gold

 Health/Wellness            Overview of Wellness Policy and building related
                                                                                           Sarah Gold
                            procedures                                                                       Emily Barron



III. SC Liaison to School Advisory Councils 2022-2023
               School                                2021-2022 SC Liaison                               2022-2023 SC Liaisons

            High School                                    Sarah Gold                                           N/A


              Veterans                                   Emily Barron                                           N/A


           Village School                                Meagan Taylor                                          N/A

               Glover                             Sarah Gold & David Harris                                     N/A


               Brown                                       Sarah Fox                                            N/A



IV. Other SC Liaisons 2022-2023

             METCO                                      Emily Barron                                        Emily Barron

              SEPAC                                                                                        Meagan Taylor
                                                        Meagan Taylor


Decided at SC Retreat July 2022
              Curriculum, Instruction & Student Life Subcommittee Proposal

The idea for the Curriculum, Instruction & Student Life (CISL) subcommittee was proposed to
me last Spring by Principal Bauer as a possible idea for the School Committee to gain a better
understanding and awareness of building level happenings. This subcommittee does not make
any decisions. It is an informational committee that acts as a resource to those making the
decisions. The Beverly School Committee has this subcommittee as one of their two standing
subcommittees. I spoke with the Chairperson of this subcommittee, Kaarin Robinson, over the
summer to better understand how this subcommittee operates and what benefits it provides to
the Beverly School District.

In Beverly, this subcommittee meets once a month in the hour immediately preceding a School
Committee meeting. Although other items occur on the agenda, any action items that are part of
the upcoming School Committee meeting are usually part of the CISL subcommittee agenda. It
is regularly used to present a deeper dive into the topics that the SC will vote on in their
meeting.

Teachers are often invited to present at the CISL meetings to demonstrate the amazing things
they are doing day to day with students. In Beverly, the final subcommittee meeting of the
school year is a Showcase of Learning where teachers volunteer to set up a booth that
highlights a lesson/unit/classroom project they are particularly proud of. Additionally, they can
bring a student(s) who they have found to be particularly invested in their class. Everyone from
the community is welcome to this interactive event. The function of the CISL subcommittee is to
highlight the many aspects of teaching and learning across the district and to present a better
understanding of how student achievement is constantly being monitored and supported.
