                                                     Marblehead School Committee – Bargaining Subcommittee

                 MARBLEHEAD                             9 Widger Road,
                                                        Marblehead, MA 01945
                PUBLIC SCHOOLS                          phone: 781.639.3140 x10114
                                                        email:schoolcommittee@marbleheadschools.org
           Sarah Fox                        Jennifer Schaeffner              Thatcher Kezer
       Committee Member                      Committee Member               Town Administrator



                                         FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

                                                October 8, 2024

The Marblehead School Committee Bargaining Sub-committee (Sub-committee) met with the Marblehead
Education Association (Union) in a bargaining session today, October 8th, 2024. The Sub-committee
presented package proposals for all five bargaining units. The Union made counter proposals for Unit A
(teachers), Tutors and Custodians.

The Sub-Committees wage proposal for Paraprofessionals included significant increases, including wage
group adjustments that would result in up to 69% over 3 years increase for some.

The Sub-committee has made significant movement however continues to be forced to balance the fiscal
realty with the financial impact of all offers. With the anemic new growth in Marblehead’s revenue stream
any increases will need to be funded either through an override or significant staff reductions. The Sub-
committee continues to weigh the impact of all offers on our students.

The Unions continues to claim certain requests have no financial impact despite a clear financial cost to the
district which the committee must factor into any proposals.

The Sub-Committee was hopeful both parties would be able to reach an agreement tonight given they
presented updated proposals on all five bargaining units; however, the parties remain very far apart on wages
still. The Sub-committee will continue to work towards this goal, maintaining their position that Marblehead
Public Schools is an attractive employer as evidenced by our new administrations ability to quickly fill the
majority of recent vacancies.

The committee is scheduled to meet again to bargain on October 21st.
