                                                      Marblehead School Committee – Bargaining Subcommittee

                 MARBLEHEAD                              9 Widger Road,
                                                         Marblehead, MA 01945
                PUBLIC SCHOOLS                           phone: 781.639.3140 x10114
                                                         email:schoolcommittee@marbleheadschools.org
           Sarah Fox                         Jennifer Schaeffner               Thatcher Kezer
       Committee Member                      Committee Member                 Town Administrator



                                          FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

                                                October 28, 2024

The Marblehead School Committee Bargaining Sub-committee (Sub-committee) met with the Marblehead
Education Association (Union) in a bargaining session today, October 28th, 2024. The Sub-Committee
presented the Union with updated proposals for Unit A, Paraprofessionals, Tutors and Permanent Substitutes
at the start of the meeting which extended the benefit of enrollment of non-resident staff children to all units
dependent on availability of space. The Union provided a revised Unit A proposal for paid leave, class sizes,
and other items to the Sub-committee, however made no movement on their wage proposals.

The Sub-Committee and our Administrators deeply value our staff. However, the financial requests currently
being presented by the Union are not something Marblehead has the revenue to fund. The School Committee
is legally required to bring forth a balanced budget. Any additional funding requests above what the town
currently is able to fund would need to be covered through reductions (the majority of which would be
realized through staff lay-offs), an override, or a combination of both. The current proposal by the Union
would result in an ask at the polls for an override that, if it fails, would trigger the lay-off of more than 15%
of Marblehead school staff. While the Union asserts they are willing to take that chance, the Sub-committee
cannot agree to a contract that has the potential to ultimately require layoffs of this magnitude.

The Sub-Committee is hopeful the Union will continue to work with us through the bargaining process to
achieve a resolution that is equitable to Union members, reflects the financial realities facing the town and is
in the best interest of our students, staff and community.

The committee is scheduled to meet again to bargain on November 4th.
