                                                    Marblehead School Committee – Bargaining Subcommittee

                MARBLEHEAD                             9 Widger Road,
                                                       Marblehead, MA 01945
                PUBLIC SCHOOLS                         phone: 781.639.3140 x10114
                                                       email:schoolcommittee@marbleheadschools.org
                                  Sarah Fox                        Jennifer Schaeffner
                              Committee Member                      Committee Member



                                          FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

                                                 June 3, 2024




The Marblehead School Committee Bargaining Sub-committee (Sub-committee) was surprised to be told by
the Marblehead Education Association (Union) today during our fifth bargaining session that the Union will
not meet to bargain again until September following a June 11th scheduled session. The Sub-committee is
currently negotiating five separate agreements and has made multiple offers of more than a dozen additional
dates, all rejected by the Union. Bargaining did not begin until March 14th after repeated requests by the Sub-
committee to start earlier in the year were rejected by the Union.

Town Administrator Thatcher Keezer was invited to join the bargaining team at today’s meeting, however
had to decline due to a scheduling conflict. The Sub-committee looks forward to having the Town
Administrator join us at our next meeting on June 11th.

The Sub-committee provided a package offer for the Custodians, as it is the first contract to expire on June
30, 2024, having given a wage proposal on May 1. The proposal included a twenty percent increase in sick
time, a market adjustment wage increase, the new benefit of paid parental leave, an enhanced bereavement
leave, and a vacation buy back option. The offer also included a $200 ratification payment per custodian if
the contract is approved by the members on or before June 24, 2024.

The Sub-committee also made proposals for paid parental leave, applying to all parents, for other unionized
employees represented by the Union. Currently, the contracts allow for up to twenty days of parental leave to
be taken out of the employees’ sick time. The current Sub-committee proposal offers up to ten days paid
parental leave without deduction from the employee’s sick time in addition to the current allowable leave.

Today’s bargaining session came to a close after the Massachusetts Teachers Association representative
Anthony Parolisi shouted an obscenity at the Sub-committee followed by shouting in self-proclaimed anger
by union members stating the proposals provided were insulting.

The Sub-committee continues to be open to schedule more dates in hopes of coming to an agreement for all
employees.
