                                                                                 November 21, 2024

Good Morning Marblehead Families.

Today marks the eighth day of the illegal strike being waged by the Marblehead Education
Association (MEA). We want to provide you with several updates.

Yesterday, the Marblehead School Committee filed a petition with the Massachusetts
Department of Labor Relations for a strike investigation against four individuals who are striking
members of the MEA. We are hoping the Board will issue orders for them to call off the strike
and return to work.

Second, the modified offer presented to the School Committee Tuesday night, while a step in
the right direction, is still unaffordable and unsustainable. It reduces the total cost of the Union’s
proposal by $857,000, to $9.5 million, and it would require a property tax override that would
add hundreds of dollars to the average property tax bill.

This was not a “Grand Gesture” as described by the Union.

The committee is dedicated to reaching a sensible, responsible agreement with its teachers to
get them and our students back in the classroom as soon as possible.

Our Committee’s current proposal is fair, equitable, and affordable. It would cost the Town $4.89
million and would already necessitate a $2.2 million property tax override, which the Bargaining
Subcommittee members support. It would raise the average teacher's salary to just under
$100,000 and the top salary scale to just under $110,000 for 184 days of work. The Committee's
offer for other bargaining units is equally generous.

This strike, coordinated among three North Shore communities by the state teacher’s union, has
gone on long enough. We need to get our teachers and students back in the classroom. We
remain open to reasonable compromise and will stay at the bargaining table until we reach an
agreement. For additional information see our “Negotiations Updates” page on our website.

Best regards,

Jennifer Schaeffner - Committee Chair
Sarah Fox - Committee Member
Thatcher Kezer - Town Administrator
Marblehead School Committee – Bargaining Subcommittee
