DATE POSTED:
vos ch iweb ty
oot} Town bel Usd only
PAA. OY ERK

2 OCT 10 PM 3: 30

MEETING NOTICE

POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 30A § 20 Act relative to extending certain COVID-19 measures
adopted during the state of emergency

Marblehead School Committee

Name of Board or Committee

HYBRID MEETING

Address: Marblehead High School — Library at 2 Humphrey St. Marblehead MA 01945

OR

Zoom Conference join via the web link or Dial in

Join Zoom Meeting

https://marbIcheadschools-org.zoom,us/j/9237490034 2pwd=V606YIGgxbVdNxD1U83HeFcy5gIL0M.1

Meeting ID: 923 7490 0341
Passcode: 302983
Dial in phone # 1 646 558 8656

Thursday October 17th 2024 5:30PM

Day of Week Month Date Year Time

Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

I. Initial Business
a, Call to Order

IL Motion and vote to meet in executive session pursuant to Mass. General Laws chapter 30A section
21(a) Purpose (3) to discuss Strategy with respect to and in preparation for collective bargaining with

the Marblehead Education Association Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit

Paraprofessionals, and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have a detrimental effect on

the bargaining position of the Committee with the intent to return to open session.

Chair’s Statement following roll call vote on the motion:

The Committee will now be meeting in executive session pursuant to Mass. General Laws chapter 30A
section 21(a) Purpose (3) to discuss Strategy with respect to and in preparation for collective bargaining
with the Marblehead Education Association Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit
Paraprofessionals, and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have a detrimental effect on

the bargaining position of the Committee with the intent to return to open session.

Ill. Executive Session

Strategy discussion with respect to and in preparation for collective bargaining with the Marblehead
Education Association Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals, and Unit
Custodians,
IV. Return to Open Session (not prior to 6:00 pm)

V. Opening Business
a. Pledge of Allegiance
b. Commendations
¢. Public Comment
d. Student Representative

VI. District Updates- Supt. John Robidoux

VII. Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills (vote)
b. Approval of Minutes (vote)
c. Dispositions for the vehicles that need to come offline (vote)

VIII. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
Contract Negotiations Update

Supt. Goals (vote)

School Committee Goals (vote)

MPS Athletic Handbook (vote)

MCAS update- Julia Ferreira

Subcommittee and Liaison Updates

mono gs

IX. Closing Business
a. New Business- School Committee Announcements and Requests
b. Correspondence

Adjournment

Hybrid Meeting Notice: Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person at 2 Humphrey St.
Marblehead MA 01945 or by the remote zoom connection provided. Please note that the in-person meeting
will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the remote connection.

THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE
Chairperson: Jennifer Schaeffner

Posted by: Lisa Manning
Date: 10/10/2024

Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-3140

John Robidoux Julia Ferreira LisaMarie Ippolito Michael Pfifferling
Interim Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of Assistant Superintendent of Assistant Superintendent of
Teaching & Learning Student Services Finance & Operations
MEMORANDUM
TO: Marblehead School Committee
FROM: Michael Pfifferling, Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations
DATE: October 10, 2024
RE: Schedule of Bills for Approval

Included in this packet are the following Schedules of Bills for your consideration. The schedules and
invoices have been uploaded to the shared drive.

Schedule Amount
25408 s 62.92
25438 5 92,166.20
25603 Ss 160,378.00
25623 $ 337.50
25629 $ 96,992.47
25631 Ss 25,539.84
25667 $ 278,448.85
25677 $ 69,456.18
25686 $ 37,573.65
25707 $ 7,506.85
25709 $s 58,392.98
25710 $ 13,332.68
25711 § 141.38
25725 $ 1,710.00
25740 $ 142,242.39
25754 ei 36,636.33
25758 $ 352.00
25759 S 22,155.16
25760 $ 17,113.58
25772 Ss 120,706.60
25780 $ 79,513.73
25788 $ 103,984.51
25792 § 38,160.17
25794 Ss 62.92
25795 $ 18,533.76
Total $ 1,421,500.65

Suggested Motion:
Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $1,421, 500.65
Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Monday July 15, 2024
4:30PM

Members Present: Jennifer Schaeffner, Sarah Fox, Alison Taylor, Brian Ota

Also Present: John Robidoux-Interim Superintendent, Michael Pfifferling-Assistant Superintendent of
Finance and Operations, Thatcher Kezer- Town Administrator

I. Initial Business
a. Call to Order
Jennifer Shaeffner calls the meeting to order at 4:34PM

b.. Public Comment

« Samantha Rosato-Tutor-Marblehead Public Schools

o Samantha asks why the additional .5 for the Assistant Director of Student Services would
be coming from the PK/K revolving fund rather than the Special Education Revolving

Fund
o John Robidoux provides clarity on the reasoning behind charging the additional .5 to the

PK/K Revolving Fund versus the Special Education Revolving Fund

II. Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills (vote)

Motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $816,521.71
Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Ms. Taylor

Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Ota, Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

a, Motion to approve the hourly wages for cafeteria workers for the 2024-2025 school year as presented
(vote)

Jennifer Schaeffner asks for a motion to the hourly wages for cafeteria workers for the 2024-2025 school
year as presented

Moved by Ms. Ota, Seconded by Ms. Taylor
Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Ota, Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

b. Motion to approve the requested increase FTE for the Assistant Director of Special Education from .5
FTE to 1.0 FTE as presented and to fund the additional .SFTE from the PK/K revolving account (vote)

Jennifer Schaeffner asks for a motion to approve the requested increased FTE for the Assistant Director
of Special Education from .5 FTE to 1.0 FTE as presented and to fund the additional .SFTE from the
PKYK revolving account

Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Ms. Taylor
Opened for Discussion

* Sarah Fox would like to discuss the allocation of funding further at a future School Committee
meeting

Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Ota, Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

c. Motion to appoint Town Administrator Thatcher Kezer to the School Committee Bargaining
Subcommittee

Jennifer Schaeffner asks for a motion to appoint Town Administrator Thatcher Kezer to the School
Committee Bargaining Subcommittee

Moved by Ms. Taylor, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Ota, Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

V. Closing Business

a. New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests

* Sarah Fox asks if there is an update on if the contract was awarded for the Independent

Investigation and what kind of time frame we are looking at
o John Robidoux has been in communication with the community to get their input before
making a final decision on who they will be awarding the contract to.
o The deadline for awarding the contract is 07/19/24
o There is no current time frame for the completion of the investigation

« The School Committee retreat will be Wednesday 08/14/24 9:00 AM — 1:00 PM
o During the workshop they intend to focus on Superintendent goals as well as School

Committee goals
o Sarah Fox would also like to ensure that they are focusing on subcommittee and liason

assignments
b. Correspondence
« The School Committee received a response from the Attorney Generals office regarding the
Open Meeting Law complaint that was lodged in fall of 2023

* The complaint was in regards to one of the Executive Sessions held

« Jennifer Schaeffner reads the findings of the Attorney Generals office for the record

o It was found that there was no open meeting law violation
« Need a copy of Alison Taylors statement for the record

Jennifer Schaeffner makes a motion and vote to meet in executive session pursuant to Mass. General
Laws chapter 30A section 21(a) purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for
collective bargaining with the Marblehead Education Association Unit A, Permanent Substitutes, Unit
Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals, and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have a detrimental
effect on the bargaining position or the Committee with the intent not to return to open session.

Moved by Sarah Fox, Seconded by Brian Ota
Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Ota, Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

The School Committee will now meet in Executive Session pursuant to Mass. General Laws chapter 30A
section 21(a) purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for collective bargaining
with the Marblehead Education Association Unit A, Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit
Paraprofessionals, and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have a detrimental effect on the
bargaining position or the Committee with the intent not to return to open session.

School Committee enters Executive Session at 5:12 PM
Respectfully Submitted,

Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
Todd Bloodgood
Facilities Director

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-3140

Oct 9, 2024

Disposition of surplus property

1- 2007 F-550 dump/ plow truck VIN# 1FDAF57Y57EA 84644 (from highway dept.)
1- 2006 F-550 dump/ plow truck VIN# 1FDAF57Y76EB60900 (from highway dept.)
1- 2008 Ford van VIN# 1FD35L88DA57808 (from COA)(Going to fire dept.)

1- Ford F-350 plow truck VIN# 1 Ftwf31598BC58598

1- Bluebird bus VIN # lbakgcpa57f245886 (Going to fire dept.)( 2007)

1- Ford 2008 Pupil van (7d) VIN# 1FT2534L28DB35073 (Going to fire dept) (2008)

All listed vehicles are beyond their useful life and rotting. Frames are rotted with holes in the bodies as
well as floors. Listed plow trucks can no longer be inspected or utilized for plowing. The COA van has a
rotted frame and can no longer pass inspection.
DRAFT

Marblehead High School Student-Athlete Handbook
2024-2025

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Athletic Department Mission Statement - p1
Program Goals & Playing Time - p2
Clearance for Participation — p2

Team Tryout/Selection - p2

Code of Conduct ~ p3

Team Captains - p3

Discipline & Detentions- p3

Athletic Program Conflict Resolution Process — p4 j
Religious Holidays - p5

Academic Eligibility - p5

Hazing - p6

MIAA/MHS Chemical Health Rule - p7

Taunting - p8

Fundraising - p8

Uniforms and Equipment - p9

Transportation - p9

Athletic Department Mission

At Marblehead High School, athletics is an integral part of the educational experience for many
students, Athletic competition can play an important role in a student’s physical, intellectual, and
emotional development. Winning is the object of the game, but our purpose as administrators
and coaches is to challenge students to do their very best, to compete, to be resilient, to take
responsibility, and to prepare them to succeed in athletics, academics, and life. A true measure of
success is evaluating how each student improves, prepares for intense competition, and how
he/she handles failure as well as success. Backed by experienced coaches and outstanding
support from the town, Marblehead athletes learn the values of sportsmanship, respect,
teamwork, and commitment. Student-athletes push themselves to improve, realize their academic
and physical potential, and prepare themselves for the world after Marblehead High School.

All students, regardless of race, color, sex, gender identity, religion, national origin, sexual
orientation, disability or homelessness, haye equal access to the general education program
and the full range of any education programs offered by Marblehead Public Schools.
Program Goals & Playing Time

The goal of The Marblehead Athletic Department is to provide safe, enjoyable athletic
programming for the benefit of as many student-athletes as possible. Each team will do their
very best to compete successfully with Northeast Conference & non-league opponents and with
teams or individuals of a similar division in state competition.

Sub-varsity sports provide many opportunities for student-athletes to experience athletic
competition and share the experience and benefits of team membership. Emphasis is on
developing basic skills, appropriate attitudes, values, and team concepts.

Participation at the varsity level is limited to the most highly skilled players and those with the
ability to interact with other players for team success. Assessment will be made by the coach
relative to the level of play, (V, JV, or Freshman) most beneficial to the development and

progress of each player.

Playing time will be limited for some student-athletes, and not every student-athlete will play in
varsity games. At the sub-varsity level, every player will have an opportunity to play in the
games, but not equally and not necessarily in every game. Who the starters are and playing time
are determined by the coach’s evaluation of attitude, skills, game strategy, and team role.

Clearance for Participation
No student athlete shall be allowed to practice or compete until he/she is cleared for
participation.

e Clearance includes completion of the following:

o Signed parental permission.

o Physical Examination. All students must pass a physical examination within 13
months of the start of each season. Students who meet the criterion at the
beginning of the season will remain eligible for that season.

e Academic Eligibility Check - See Academic Policies.

Payment of User Fee.
“The School Committee recognizes the need for student fees to fund certain school activities. It
also recognizes that some students may not be able to pay these fees. No student will be denied
access into any program because of inability to pay these supplementary charges.”

e Fees are waived for students who qualify for an athletic waiver

Team Tryout/Selection

During the tryout period, each coach will provide an explanation of his/her expectations. It is the
duty of the student to demonstrate to the coach that he/she can fulfill these expectations. Students
not selected are encouraged to explore other athletic opportunities. The coaching staff of each
sport has the sole responsibility for selecting the members of the team, determining the level of
play most beneficial to the development of each player and the amount of playing time. Player
concerns should be addressed first between player and the coach. If a significant resolution is not
reached, parents should plan on a meeting with the coach. (See conflict resolution process)
Code of Conduct

Expectations for student-athlete behavior are based on the philosophy that participating in
interscholastic athletics is a privilege for some rather than a right for all. Abuse of any privilege
may result in its removal. Student-athletes represent their team, coaches, school, their families,
hometown, and themselves. It is important to realize that to continue as a student-athlete at
Marblehead High School athletes must exhibit a high standard of personal conduct. Student-
athletes are always expected to exhibit; sportsmanship, integrity, responsibility, teamwork, and
respect.

Team Captains

The position of captain is one of honor, leadership, and responsibility. Captains are expected to
conduct themselves in an exemplary manner. Captains are to be leaders on the field, in school, at
off-season sporting events, and in the community. Captains are responsible for motivating and
inspiring their teammates, leading by example in terms of work ethics, attitude, and
sportsmanship. Captains often serve as liaisons between coaches and players, helping to
communicate team strategies and expectations. Additionally, they may organize team activities,
lead fundraising, and help build a successful team culture.

All captains are required to be part of “The Captains Leadership Counsel”.

The following is a Northeastern Conference rule: Once a student is elected a team captain and
he/she violates the MIAA or their own school drug and alcohol policy at any time during the
year, they will lose the privilege of being a team captain. Marblehead High School student-
athletes are not eligible to be nominated or voted on as captain for one year to the date, if he/she
violates the MIAA or Marblehead High School’s Chemical Health policy.

Discipline
The following forms of discipline may be used by the Athletic Department for warranted reasons
which include but are not limited to the categories listed on these pages.

TEAM: Coaches and their assistants are granted the capacity to help set team rules that provide
common experiences for each team member within the parameters and scope of the
Massachusetts Interscholastic Athletic Association (MIAA), Marblehead High School (MHS)
and the mission of the Marblehead Athletic Department. The Marblehead Athletic Department
believes that a person is evaluated by what he/she says and does. Matters that affect only the
team and its day-to-day operation are handled within the team structure. However, severe
disciplinary actions, such as dismissal from team or prolonged suspension, must be reported to
the Athletic Director.

STUDENT: The Athletic Department recognizes that high school-aged students may on
occasion make inappropriate decisions in their personal life within our community. The Athletic
Department does not intend to punish student athletes twice for the same offense. However, the
Department reserves the right to decide if an offense infringes on our mission and integrity and
hand out an appropriate sanction ranging from suspension to removal from the team.
GROUP: The Athletic Department and the high school reserve the right to withhold privileges
from the entire team should egregious acts be committed anywhere by any number of team

members in the name of the team.

Detentions

Assigned detentions must be served before a student attends a club, organization, activity and/or
sport. Student-athletes will not be allowed to try out, practice or play in a game if they have not
served their detentions. If a student wants to participate in athletics, they need to stay off the
detention list.

Athletic Program Conflict Resolution Process

Athletic involvement, while fun and rewarding, can be very emotional and time consuming. Due
to the level of effort and emotion invested, conflicts between coach and player will arise. All
conflicts are to be addressed professionally and in a timely manner. The following steps will be
used.

FIRST STEP: Student-Athlete — Coach Contact
The student-athlete will meet individually, in person, with the coach to discuss the conflict/issue.
It is the student-athlete’s responsibility to make every attempt to meet with the coach before any
other people get involved.
Times to be avoided:
e Either immediately prior to or right after a contest
e During an active practice session
e During a time when other students are present or when the discussion is readily visible by
others.
e When it is apparent that there is not sufficient time to allow for a complete discussion.
During those situations a student should set up a time to meet with the coach.

SECOND STEP: Parent of student-athlete and coach contact (with student-athlete)

Only after the student-athlete has made every effort to contact the coach should the parent of the
student-athlete get involved. The parent will follow the guidelines in First Step. The student-
athlete must be present with the parent during the parent-coach in person meeting.

THIRD STEP: Student/Parent and Athletic Director Contact

Ifa satisfactory resolution is not reached through direct contact with the coach, the student and
parent should contact the Athletic Director. The coach must be informed that this contact is
going to be made. If a meeting is to take place between the student, parent, and athletic director,
the coach must be present. Issues concerning coaching personnel may not be publicly
communicated. All comments or input about coaching must be put in writing to the attention of
the athletic director.

FOURTH STEP: Student and Principal Contact

If a satisfactory resolution has not yet been reached, the student and parent should contact the
high school principal. The Athletic Director should be informed that this contact is going to be
made. If a meeting is to take place between the student, parent, and principal, the athletic director
must be present.
Religious Holidays

The Marblehead High School Athletic Department does not exclude students, from participation,
on the basis of race, sex, color, religion, national origin, sexual orientation, disability or
homelessness, The Marblehead High School Athletic Department respects the individual
student-athletes’ wishes, and obligation, to observe major religious holy days. Student-athletes
will not be subject to reduced playing time if they choose to observe a major holy day in lieu of
an athletic team obligation. Major holy days include, but are not limited to, Passover, Yom
Kippur, Rosh Hashanah, Good Friday, Easter, Christmas and Ramadan.

Academic Eligibility
1. Academic eligibility (Academics will be monitored during the season and poor grades may
result in removal from a team.)

Eligibility
Quarter Based Upon
I End of the Year Final Grades
First Quarter Grades
Second Quarter Grades
Third Quarter Grades

BR] wily

e In order to qualify for participation, a student must have no F's on his/her report card.
Eligibility for First Quarter is determined by final grades for the year preceding the
activities. All other eligibility is determined by quarterly grades in the last marking
period preceding the activities (e.g., Second Quarter grades and not semester grades
determine Third Quarter eligibility). Eligibility will be removed or re-sorted in a manner
consistent with MIAA policy; that is, on the date on which report cards are issued. In all
other matters concerning this policy, unless otherwise stated, the District will follow
MIAA policy. In extreme situations due to a student’s health (documented by medical
personnel) or family circumstances (e.g., death of an immediate family member) the
Principal may review the student-athlete’s eligibility status for one marking period.

e A student must take the required number of courses.

e Academic eligibility of all students shall be considered as official and determined only on
the date when the report cards for that marking period have been issued to the parents of
all students within a particular class.

e A student receiving an “I” (incomplete) for a grade may have her/his eligibility status
reviewed at the time any incomplete is changed to a passing grade. No credit toward
eligibility can be received from a repeated subject for which one has already received
credit. Summer work credits will not count toward eligibility unless the course has
already been pursued.

e Ifa student-athlete receives an “N” grade for a quarter, the student-athlete will be
ineligible for the quarter. A student receiving an “‘N” for a grade may have her/his credit
status reviewed at an Attendance Panel Review Board.

e To be considered in attendance for the day (and be eligible for extracurricular activities) a
student must either arrive before 11:00AM and remain for the rest of the day or arrive on
time and not be dismissed until after 11:00AM. Any exception to this, such as for
bereavement must be approved by the Athletic Director.

2. A student shall be eligible for interscholastic competition for no more than 12 consecutive
seasons beyond the 8th grade.
e Example: 4 fall seasons, 4 winter seasons, 4 spring seasons.

3. A participant shall be an undergraduate.

4. A participant shall not be over 18 years of age, unless he/she has his/her 19th birthday AFTER
September | of the present school year.

5. Special permission must be granted for a player with one diseased or missing organ or limb
(e.g., eyes, kidney, arms, legs, etc.)

6. A permission form must both be signed by the parent/guardian and the student-athlete prior to

any practice or play.

Hazing
As required by Massachusetts State Code, Chapter 536, and Massachusetts General Laws
Chapter 269, sections 17-19 of the Acts of 1985, all secondary schools must:
e Adopt anti-hazing policies as part of their disciplinary policies.
e The law requires that secondary schools provide all school groups (e.g., athletic teams) a
copy of the law and collect a signed acknowledgment from a contact person (coach) for
each student organization.

Applicable sections of the statute are as follows: State Definition: Whoever is a principal
organizer or participant in the crime of hazing, shall be punished by a fine, or by imprisonment
in a house of correction, or both.

The term “hazing” as used in this section shall mean any conduct or method of initiation into any
student organization, whether on public or private property, which willfully or recklessly
endangers the physical or mental health of any student or other person. Such conduct shall
include whipping, beating, branding, forced calisthenics, exposure to weather, forced
consumption of any food, liquor, beverage, drug or other substance, or any other brutal or
sexually inappropriate treatment or forced physical activity which is likely to adversely affect the
physical and mental health or safety of any such student or other person, or which subjects such
student or other person to extreme mental stress, including extended deprivation of sleep or
extended isolation.

Consent by any such student or other person shall not be available as a defense to any
prosecution this action. (You have the responsibility to reasonably foresee the results of your
actions.)

Failure To Report Hazing: Whoever knows that another person is the victim of hazing as defined
above and is at the scene of such crime shall, to the extent that such person can do so without
danger or peril to himself or others, report such crime to an appropriate law enforcement official

6
(or coach, athletic director, Principal, Assistant Principal, faculty or staff member) as soon as is
reasonably possible. Whoever fails to report is punishable by the State of Massachusetts.

MIAA/MHS Chemical Health Rule
Participation in Marblehead athletics is a privilege and is voluntary; participation comes with an

increased standard for behavior expectations. The Marblehead High School standard is designed
to encourage responsible and safe decision making by all students and to promote a positive
learning environment within the Marblehead community. Marblehead High school, as a member
of the MIAA, meets or exceeds their standards for code of conduct and discipline.

During the school year a student-athlete shall not, regardless of the quantity, use, consume,
possess, buy/sell, or give away any beverage containing alcohol, any tobacco product (including
e-cigarettes, vape pens and all similar devices); marijuana, steroids, drug paraphernalia; or any
controlled substance. This policy includes misuse of over-the-counter medications and
substances used for the purposes of altering one’s mental state. It is not a violation for a student
to be in possession of a legally defined drug specifically prescribed for the student’s own use by
his/her doctor.

All violations are subject to a hearing with MHS Administration. The following are used for
punishments, per the MIAA Handbook, Rule 62:

1* offense — 25% 24 offense — 60% 2 offense — 40%
with dependency program
Number of | Number of Number of | Number of Number of | Number of
events per events per events per events per events per events per
season penalty season penalty season penalty
1-7 l 1-3 1 1-4 1
8-11 2 4 2 5-7 2
12-15 3 5-6 3 8-9 3
16-19 4 7-8 4 10-12 4
20 or over 5 9 5 13-14 5
10-11 6 15-17 6
12-13 Z 18-19 7
14 8 20 or over 8
15-16 9
17-18 10
19 ll
20 or over 12

Student/athlete may be allowed to participate in another sport to serve a chemical health

violation suspension but will only count if they complete season in good standing.

MIAA/MHS Chemical Health Rule note: Every game played with an ineligible player shall be
forfeited to the opposing team up until the time said player is removed from the squad.
MIAA Sportsmanship: Taunting
Taunting includes any actions or comments by coaches, players or spectators, which are intended

to bait, anger, embarrass, ridicule, or demean others, whether or not the deeds or words are
vulgar or racist. Included is conduct that berates, needles, intimidates, or threatens, based on
race, gender, ethnic origin or background, and conduct that attacks religious beliefs, size,
economic status, speech, family, special needs, or personal characteristics.

Examples of taunting include but are not limited to: “trash talk”, defined as verbal
communication of a personal nature directed by a competitor to an opponent by ridiculing his/her
skills, efforts, sexual orientation, or lack of success, which is likely to provoke an altercation or
physical response; and physical intimidation outside spirit of the game, including “in the face”
confrontation by one player to another, standing over/straddling a tackled or fallen player, etc.

Taunting offenses: Students who participate in such activities will be removed from the event
and school discipline may be administered. In addition, the student may be banned from
attending all extra-curricular activities throughout the school year.

Student Extracurricular Fundraising Guidelines and Expectations

The Marblehead Public Schools offers school-sponsored student athletic, performing and
fine/applied arts and extracurricular clubs, activities and events as a part of the student’s
overall education experience. These offerings are considered district sponsored operational
activities and as such, are funded as a part of the annual budget process.

Student team and club-based fundraising initiatives, outside of established organizations such as
the Boosters, may occur, as a supplement to the operational costs of district extracurricular
activities, within the parameters outlined in this section.

Objectives/Considerations for extracurricular student athletic and club fundraising
The fundraiser promotes team and school community and collaboration
e The fundraiser participants are voluntary in nature and attendance in the
event
e The fundraiser provides students and/or district staff, coaching, advisory,
or otherwise, a positive philanthropic experience
e The event raises funds with specific funding intent or goal in mind, that is
not a part of the school’s annual operating budget
e Coaches may coordinate team, club or advisory student fundraisers, with
oversight from appropriate district staff, (athletic department staff or
building principal) recognizing appropriate timing and coinciding student
commitments

What student fundraising proceeds may fund:

e —Spirit-wear, team-wear, specialty uniform outside of a base game or event uniform (ie:
sweats, warm up gear, jackets, hats)

e Inor out-of state-trips or events, specialized camps, invitational tournaments or events,
outside of official team game or event league or conference schedule (including
transportation as appropriate)

e Social events including team meals, events, banquets
What student fundraising proceeds WILL NOT fund:
Students and families can generally expect the following resources to be funded at the district
level as operational provisions of the team, club or activity:

e Athletic team game uniform

e Standard district provided equipment (varies by team)
e Team conference or league membership fees

e Fees for rental or use of facility for games or events

e Game or event officials or referees

Uniforms and Equipment

All uniforms and equipment issued to student athletes remain the property of Marblehead High
School. Please treat the items with care so that the school is continually well represented. An
athlete will be responsible financially for what is issued to him/her and for anything that is not
returned.

The Athletic Department does not buy travel/warm up suits or shoes for teams. Each team,
through its head coach, has the opportunity to fundraise for these types of items. The Athletic
Department reserves the right to protect its image and the representation of its name. Therefore,
color schemes and lettering must be approved by the Athletic Department regardless of the
source of funding.

Transportation
Marblehead High School has the responsibility to transport all athletes to and from all games.

Student-athletes must go with the team from portal-to-portal.

To be released from this obligation, a “Athletics Transportation” form must be on file with the
head coach and Athletic Department before the trip begins. The party that releases you must be a
parent or legal guardian. Athletic Transportation forms are available on the Marblehead Athletics
homepage.

If a student cannot make departure time, he/she will not attend that game. Private vehicles are
not permitted for transporting students to games unless a Athletics Transportation Form is in
effect.

Athletes are expected to conduct themselves in a proper manner on all bus trips. Yelling at
passing cars, obscene gesturing, unruly conduct, or other forms of inappropriate behavior will
not be tolerated.
vTO0~ 4990390
YyoeoD Jeuo!jONI3sSU]
‘ourlzei5 ejesuy
7WUOJy SUOIINGIJUOD
sulusea7 pue Sulyoea,

40 JUapUAajUadns jUeIsSISSY
eilasaj ene

jovduly aAijisod 40f
D}Dq JUapnis
sulzAjpuy
UO1}E}UDSI1q
sisAjeuy
eed 8 SVIW

“ysOMaweI WOddns Jo waysks

peisi{-4)NW S,191U4sIq 4NO Ysnoiyi pesseippe ase Jey} JUSWSAOIdUUI
Sulpeeu seaie pue SuisuUsJ}s JeaAes Sole Aey “UO!IzeONpA 0}
JUSWIWWODS S,191J}SIG By} SulJOa]Je1 ‘S]USpPN}s SuowWe ]aAe] BoUeWOJJed
}USISISUOD & S8JEDIPU! e1LP SYOW SPIM-I9143SIG S,peeysa]que\|

"‘JUBUSaAsIYOe puke ssedons JUapNys WoOddns 0} saigajzeijs aAloOSsya a1eEa9
sJoveonps sdjay ejep siyi SulpuejsispuN “YyIMOIS JO, Sease pue spuall
Sulysysiy ‘s]joOOYyoS oNGQN_g pesys|queW UlUIM aedUeWWIOJJEd JUapNis OjU!
SYSISUI! JED!IZIID SIOTeIISIUILUPe PUe SIOZeONpe saepiAosd yey JUIOd e1ep
3UO SI (SVOIN) Waisks JUBUassessy SAISUBYsIGLUOD SHEsNyoesseW syL

SVOW sulzAjeuy
>> "4

ee PE

‘SVOW 7707 Suluds
BIUSISS PUL “LAE “siuy
asensue] yusijsuq auj

UO OL-€ Sepeis syausIeS}]
JO} S1O}VSO!Pul sDeWOLJEd

}99W/P29a90xSe 9uU}
$O MSIAJBAO US BPIAOId
TIM sapl}s SUIMO}]OJ SY L

s}}nNseYy SVOW
VZ0Z Sulids ,sjooyIS
21qNd peaysa)qiew
JO M2IAI3ZAQ

"uunjnoWsns
pue sjelieyew yeuowonsysu! Ay)Nb-ysiy
JO UO!}e}USW9]dW! PpanulqzUOd. sulpnj}oul
‘sS800Ns poulejsns JOJ saligezess

pue winjuswow ule,UIeW 0} paeu e
S81eDIPUI JI}SI17e4S SIU] “AaseJaAe a7eIS
3Y} UCU} JaUSIY %8L+ ‘SjUawssesse
SVOW U! Spsepueys Adualoijoid

2U} SUIPSE8DXe puke SUulleeW ae
S]UEPNIs JO %OQ JO asesane ue ‘}]e19AO

¢
ta

8 rs 9 Ss v
9 %g
%O YA 70
#OS — %IS xe ad

abesany aje1g — BHBuipaaoxg/Bunaayy %@

V13 - [2497 apes Bunsay Aq Buipsscxq/buneay % ejyeq svwVy
osensur’ ysijsuy
SPIM-}ILI}SIG

%0
%0S
%EQ

Zoe

Bulpaarxa/bunaayy %

%OOL
€
%O

8 l 9 s ?
Fd A z %OS
2S
uso”

ALS %ES

09

MLL

Bulpaacxz/Bunaay %

%9L

KOOL
aBesaay ayeyg— Buipaaoxg/bunaay %@

YEW - [PAR] BPe41H Bunsel Aq 6Huipaacxgz/Bunesayy %

"YIMOJS PaseasOU! PeMmous

(OL-v Sepess) sOYyOS apes sno
JO XIS 84} JO INO INOY *g-y sapels
e]NIJIND yyeW paseq-aeduepine

JO uolzdope 9yj OU! Ssueak 7

MOU USWAeAe!Yde 4O PUudas} PueMdn
QU] Ul Sue SBM “ASesaAe 9}e1S
BAOdES YLT+ SI Sd ‘esesane uO

eyeq WeW
apIM-}9143S1q
"8 3 G Sepeis 10f SYVOI SUleeuIsUg
/AZ0]0uYde]| Ppue souUaINS

M®U 8} YIM psusije JUsWdoO}sAep
yeuoissejoid pue ‘winjnoluno
‘s}elua1eW INO SsAeY aM ains ayew
01 ea Siu} BDUaIOS JO, SSBD0id
MA@I1AB1 WUININDIIND & ul Sulsesue sue
2M ‘YIMOIS Siu} JO Wed sy ‘asesane
SIEIS SAOGE %EL+ SI SdW ‘W]e48AO

°
aS
=
ic]
©
2.
3

a
a
m
x
a
®
©
=

5

a

%OOL

aBesaay aie} — Suipaarxg7/Bunaayy %®

B2UdIIS - [PAB] apeiy Hunjsay Aq Huipaarxg/Hunaayy % ele a s pe] U o I 3 S
2PIM-}911}S1G

(oune7/oluedsipy

1ayes uonedionsed Mo7
yoddns pajebieypasnooy
JO peeu uj) UonUa/uejU! | ~sjob1e} puemo} ssaiBoid
Jo aouejsisse Buyinboy lenueysqng - %89 looyos YBIH peays|quey\

uonUe/uequ! s}@61e} Buipasoxa Jooyoss
Jo aouerjsisse Buuinbal jon Jo Bujaaw - %28 SIPPI SUBIE}aA, PRaYys|queyy

uoquaejul | sja6se} premo} ssos6od
Jo aouejsisse Guuinbad JON lenueysqns - %PG Jooyss abe\II,,

uonuesuejul | sje6se} puemo} ssesBoud
Jo aouejsisse Buuinbel JoN S}LIOPOW - %Ly JOOYIS JeAO]5,

uoquaejul s}@61e} Buipasoxe looyos
Jo aouejsisse Buuinbas jon Jo Bunsay - %8g umojg ydesor 9 eeion7

uonuasusjul | s}a6se} puemo} ssesBoid
4o aouejsisse Buyinbal JON lenueysqns - %79 - yuRs!IG

sjobuey yueweaoiduy a[Quedleg
uoneoyisse|g Ayiqezunosoy Paemoy ssaiBoig | = Ayiqeyunoooy looyos

°SdIN 40} podey Ayqequnoooy 3saq »z0z

“U01}8]dWI09 y4OMesiNOOS peoueApe puke ‘souepuayYeE ‘Adualoijoid asgensue] ysisuz
SUlUleye PseMo} SSe1s0Jd ‘UOIa}dWO0D jOOYDS YsIYy “YIMOIS BY JUsLWAaAaIYOR DIWSpede
JO sease Ul soUeULIOLed S,jeaX SnolAaid Jay UO S]OOYDS PUe $}91JISIG 9109S 0} DUgnI
e sasn (4S4q) uoAeonpy Aiepuosas pue Ajejuswe)]3 JO Juawyed|q au} ‘weak yoey

Hoday Ayiqezunos2y 4S3d

peulloeq y's %'Lb «SJUBPNIS IV, |OOYDS YBIH
«SJUSPNIS
yobuel pepesoxy %8'6 RWSL IlW,, looyds YyBiy-uON
a7ey aey
uoseey . eouepueHy 7z07 souepUusHY £7207

(bZ02-Ez0zZ) uisieajuesqy D1U0AY4D SdIN

*"(jooyuds jo shep

Sly Jen) Fey aA Wey Soq.AGN a 5s +8L) ]OOYDS Jo sKep OSL 8ui Jo a1OW
JO Y%OL SSiw OUM sjuspnis Aq pouljep
SI 9} J WSsles1UEesgqy DIUOIYD oul

s2uepuay
yuo Ag a}ey a2uepuany a e1e G

‘uolzONIISU! UBYyZUSI}s puke UsITe

01 S,01d SULINP 410M peseaidU! pue ‘siseq yeNuUIJUOD e UO soUeWOLIed JUapNis
JoyJuOW sn djey yey sjUeLUSSesse Paseg-psduapIAS peppe ‘wNjnoiUNo

paseq paouapine paydope ‘aunjoniis SSL JNO pauaysueis srey am

“JUSWSACIGWUI! JO} UOIZUSENe
Jey yn, siinba yey} sease pue Swi} J8AO apew ssaisoid |y} Sulyessn}]!
‘JUBWUAaASIYOe JUSpNys Ul Spuss1 SjeaAas eJEP adueLWIOJIad Ayeak SuizAjeuy

MAdIAIIAQ VIULCWHOLI9g Aylea,

+

a

‘weak Ag aouewsojied

jUSpnis se }/8M se ‘s})NsaJ
a1e1S puke 1913SsIq YyOg SulMoYUs
‘VZOT 03 GLOT WOI} eIEP SYOW
1YsNYsIY Sepl]s SUIMO]]O} SUL

Jea, Ag

vz0r £202 e20z L202 6102 20e £202 e20z 1202 6102

So

wwe 4 = a ae es. SOP
a oon.
Z ee
2 id
3 -e
Fes
“LP c % 7
eS ae ed 95 oN. “
308
%00L
BunsWion@  Sunoow Ayereg Suns @ — Suipaa27»7 @ J+W % 2201S. - = = Buipaaax3/6unaayy 54 ——
VW13 - 422, Aq a2ueuojiag juapMs “aA Supaarxg/Sunsaw % 4ea, Ag syjnsay

“SPUGI} BJEIS P}EISAO GU} SJOIUILU AJUaISISUOD e1ep INO

“S]USWAACIGW! psjesse} JO} Sease SulMmOYsS ‘spiepue ys pasinbe ay] J@eW JOU PIP %g pue
qow Ajered %ZE aTIYM ‘suoIZeJOEdxe papseoxa JO JaW SIUaPNIS SIN JO %OQ “UaWSsasse W719 ]U89e/ IsOW 9} U|

“SVOW UO suze g Se] 84} JeAO SulWOjJed ase sjuapnys Moy syeo!pu! sudes8 esau

VZ07-6T0Z S})Nsdy S}y asensue7 usinsuy

v20z £202 2202 1202 610e

rz0e €202 2202 L202 6107

ere Psy
@------- @------7 -_ se 207
5 °
&
ray
3
a
609
08
600L
Gunso ON @ Sunvoyw Ajjerueg 3+W % 2101S+ = = = Suipaarx3/6unaayy % ——
A Surpaaoxg/Bunaow % sea, fg synsoy

UReIW - 4a, Aq a2uUeUOJIag JUaPNIS
“eqep 8211S Sy) YIM WeapuUe} UI Ss! eYeEp Sq INO

*ssois0id Wey) djey 0} seoinoses pue Yoddns jeuolippe Sulpaeu seaie Sujoajyjas ‘suousessaluU! pease}

joy Ajunyoddo ue sjueseides dno siyl “spuepueis pesinbes ay} Buneew Ayyeued ae sjuapnis Jo %LE Ajeyewxoiuddy
“SVOW YIEW 842 UO SUO!IIeJDSadxXe papssoxe JO Jel SjUapNIs Sd JO %EQ ‘JUassasse JUS91 JSOWW Ay} U|

VcOCc-6L0¢ S}Nsey YVeW

v20e £202 z20z 1202 6102 P20z £202 2202 1202 6102

p x9 | ; 260
‘OP
es 4 = . ; roe 8 e---0707 iii Se OB
2 “e
z
i
s
2
a "
wit x6 6Y a aa 08
608
%00L
B+ % 22035- = = = Buipaaoxg/bunsay 9% ——.
Bunvoywion@ Gunaay Ayerieg Suna @ Super @
A Surpaarxg/Bunaaw % aea, Ag syinsay

aouains - aka, Ag a2uewuojiag uapnis

“97TO7-SZO7 U! JeUO!Te19do ATINy Sulaq 41 YIM
Jeak ]OOUDS 3sSe] PaiojJId SVOIN ALS JOL 8 9 G Sapess Ul JUaWSSESsse MAN “~ZOZT ul esesene o1eis
BACKS %EL+ 01 TZOT Ul OSCIOAS SJeIS BACKS %/+ WO SVOIN BQUaIDS JNO UO YIMOIE }]21BAO

VcOc-6L0¢ S}NSaY BIUSIDS
“sjuapnys 10} suoddns ajeldoidde sinsua 0} eyep JUapNis Jo uOMeIUIWUeXE
8S0]9 Sepnjou! sseooid sishjeue eyep pue yIomaWeL SSI INO YUM ,,pyIYD a]OYyM, UO SNDO1 INO

“sopess
jooyos ysiy-uoU JO} yyMos AOUA!dIJo1d esensue] ysisuy suiureye psemoj sseiSoid 10) aSie. papasoxy

“YZEIN PUe W179 YI0q JO} SepesS jOOYos Ysiy-uOU U! dnoJsqns ,SpaeN USIH,, JO, Se7e1 YZMoss YSIH

‘saliigesip Yum Juapnys e 10 ausee] Yysisuy Jewioj/iauseay ysisuy ‘ewosu! Mo] ase Keyl 41 Speen
USIH, SB peyeusisep si Juapnis y “eoUeWIOJJed JUSpNIs SpaEeN YSIH JNO JOUOW Aj@aso}9 02 aNnUI{UOD aM

“sueak € ySsed ay} J8A0 puasz aaisod e
Ul PeUapIM sey JUSWAASIYSe S,514}SIG INO pues JUSWAaASIYOS 91e1S ]}e1SAO S,a}e1S ay} UBsEemieq des ino

dey JuUsWAaNdIUOY
24} SUISO}D

“*SUIUICS)

qUaPNIS SAOIGW! 0} SUIMBW-UOISIDSP PAWUOJU! 0} $9}ze]84109 y1OM JUeLIOdWI
yey} MOY puke y1OMaWeIL SSL INO UlyUM e1ep ezAyeue aM YdIYM UI SkeM BUI
04U! S@A@p UO!IDSS SIU] “SOlWJeWW BOUeWOLIEd JUApNys Sujeidiaqu! AjaAoepe
Aq S®8wO0d{no jeuo!eonps Suloueyus UI 3]OJ yeUA © SKejd sisAjeue e1eq

“S8WWODINO SUIUIe9] JUBPNIs soUeyUS

Jey] SUOUSAJAIU! Pajesie} 0} SuIpPes] ‘WUaWaAOIAU! JO}, Sease pue ‘syuIsUai1s
‘spuas} AjiqUep! UBS OM ‘eJep adUeWOLIed JUAapNys auIWIeXa 0} ssaz0id

e pezieunoy e Suiney Ag weak diwapece JUSsIIND aui JO} Sessaooid Sulmew
-uolsioep ,sioyeonpe Wuoju! sdjey erep Sulsixe Sulyzenjyers jo ssaooid aul

“Sd Ul SjUapN}s 7]e JO
Spesu ayj Jeew 0} sisfyeue eyep Yyidap-u! Jo} seqiunyioddo pue uoesoqey}09
4Jayoes} JO, SMoOjje FEI B4NIONIAS 917e@W9 Shs e sunsua 0} Woddns jo wia3sks

pe1911-13]NW Ano padojanap Ayesisgezeays 9/A,9M ‘sieak Maj 1Se] 8U} AAO

“sseoons juapnys suloddns Ajexyewjn

‘ASAIOSYS S8OINOSel STeEdO}e Pue spoujewW SulYyoeS} 4JI9YI 107!e}3 UBD s]OOUDS
‘souujeu soueWOJed Sulsesers] Ag ‘sjuapnjs Jo spaau esJsAlp ay sseuppe
pue pueisispun 0] siojeonpe smo}je 1 SB uo!eONpe ul yelONsO SI siskyeue e1eEG

SdW ul sisAjeuy eyeg jo asoding
“yoeod yeuoIIONIAsU] Pue yedioulg ay? YUM
Suljeew eyep ajo uolUAaAJajU] e Ul SUIsesua
sioyeonpe jooUudS UMOJg ale sAOge PsiNjdIg

*sjualUSSaSse aiNinj ul SUOIZeIOedxE
QOUBWIOJIad paaoxe JO JeawW SjUSpNis 7]e

yeul Sulinsua JO} JeIMUasse oe SulyeW-uUOISIOap
udaAlIp-eyep pue SulojUOW SnonulUOD

"eJeP SVOIN PU SSAIOV se 12M se
‘sjuauissesse UuoWIWOD pue ‘(S7agid) SSv19W
‘4x1 ‘Apeay! se yons ‘juauussasse yeusaqU! Wold

eyep SuIsSN Spud} soUeWOLIed JUapNis sUulLUeXa

0} a]Npayos Je}Nsai & UO ayeJOgeT]OD suayoRal

“JUeWAaACIdWUI SNONUIZUOD

UO SNOOJ e Sulinsus ‘suoljzejOadxa Sulpsaoxe

JO Suljeew SjUuapnis Jo asejUaoied |yi se

yons sole ssasse am “(S7AgIC) SSv1DW pue
4x! ‘Apeey! 8x1] $]00}3 sulzijiyzn Ag “aouewsojied
juapnys soueUyUs 0} Salsajzesjs UBALIp-eTep
SOZITIOG JOI4ISIP JOOYDS INGNd peayajquew suL

sisAjeuy e}eg
]9A97-]00YIS
“spiepuejs yyw 72 UO SulWJOjiad ale sjuapNis Moy 4o
ea] Je]NUeIZ ay} Ie S4OO] pue SYOW UO sisfjeue Wa! azAjeUe OJ SIaYORa YJEW YIM SuUlZeJOGeTOD -
*ssoyeonpa 104}
uioddns yeuoljonsysul Sulayo pue sishjeue e1ep JONPUOD 02 SHIN Ie YOeOD JeUOHONIYSU| Mau BUIZIIIN -
ZL-6 Sapesy
“SaYdeOD JeUOIIONIYSU| pUe
yediould GU} UUM Busew eyep a}0AD
udUsAJaU] & Ul SuIseSuae suoyeonpa
JooudS uMOIg aie BADGE painidid

“siayoray Aq pa] ‘aunjoniis SVOW 3LS Mau 9yi puNoJe gg Suuawayduy -

"UO!IJONAISU! BDUdIDS AAISN]DU! JO} (Gd) JUaWdoOjaA|q JeUOISSAaJOJg aAISUaYXd SUIOddNS -
*s]uauunsop aduanbas pue adoos aouaids sulusiy -

“syJeM Suluseay yyeW Apeay suiuue)d

*suueisoid pue syeleyew a

42]ND144ND JUILIND 0} apeW aq 0} Paau je} Sazepdn wuoju! 0} sisAyeue Wai! SYOW 3e BuUIy007 -
*saoioeid Sulyoeaj saq JO UOISSNOSIp YSnNoY} UOIJONIYSU! a109 Sulpioddns - ne

“suawussasse pue ‘Buipess ‘yoeqpaay punose Suiusea) yeuoIssajoid Buluue}d -

JoOYdS Ysly PUR a]PP!LW By} U! YOM JUSWWUsI|e JedIWI9A SuinulUOD -

18-2 Sapesy

“WUBWUSI}E PUB LUNINDIIND BduaIDS BUIMSIAdY -

*9-p SAPeIS Ul BDUAaIDS JOy ALI] JEUO!JONIYSU! BuUIseaJoU| -

‘Aouan}y yeanpacoid yew YUM YJOM JNO SuloUeyUy -

“apeis pie ul Suo!zepuNY Jo UOIWdope Jee puz puke SulzUM pue

Aouan}

Suipeas Jo sease ay} ul UONONsYsU! SuIyOddns UO SsNd04 0} JUaWIdO]aNaq JeUOISSaJOJg SUIZIWIOISND -
*ssaisojd JoWUOW puUe UO!ONJ}SU! WIOjU! 02 eJep Apeay! BuIsN -

“aoueWJOjad

juapnys soueyusa 0} spew aq 0} paau zey} sayepdn Woju! 0} sishyeue Wa}! SYDIN SulUIWeXg -
*SUOSSA9] YEW SAIZeISN}]| JO Suloed Sujunz suly -

“SUOIZUSAJA}U! SUIPESJ JO, PSU Sy1 WUOjU! JEU. SJUaLUSSASSe STFAgGIG aAisuayaidwoo Suuawajduy -
“(WOPSIM F UM) WNjNdIWINdD WIZ peusiye ue yo uondope Z sea, Suljuawajdwy -

29-y Sepeiy

ésulusea] Juapnys pioddns 03 Sulop Ajuasino am ase yeu

yioddns jo swiajsAg ]aA9]-]OOUIS
“(sys diysuoiejei pue ‘ssousieme

yeloos ‘JuswaesgeueU-Jsjes ‘Sulyew uolsidap a}qisuodseai
‘SSOUdIEME J]aS SJUSPN}S SUISCS1IOUI UO SUI4JOM) P}!UD

3]OUM 94} JO} SSL JNO 0} SJQaUUOD AjJDeIIP pue JUSWSAaIYIe
UO Dae SAIsOd e aAeY 0} UBAOId seY SapulsAen
‘un]NdIWIND Sulusee7 JEUCIOWZ-jeID0S jo UONeIseIUI Meu BUL

“SdIN UI! ZL-y Sepess 490)]q UOIQUSAJE UI
pue JUsWYdIUSa US MOU SI 8J8Y} OS S}9/A Je PSWeIS 4D0]q NIM
joouss esejzjiA Ye Suluseay peseg joaefold
speidwAjo uiewW
(qUsl4 peinjoid) qnjD 1ededsman
:salqiunyioddo NIM 0} Sulpuedxe sie ssuLIayO SSIWN

*$]2A9] 17e Fe S]UapNis
usnd jjIM 7ey} YOM SsuljUsWse]duw! pue suluue}d sepnjsul
SSL ‘Sd Ul S}UapNs Te JO SpeeU Sy3 Joo 0} sIsAjeEUe eVeEp
yidep-ul 104 seqziunyioddo smojje 7ey} 81Nj9NI4s J17eWA ISAs

e Sainsue yiomawes yoddns jo wisa3sAs pai91-4)NIW INO

sisAjeuy
eed 3 SSLW

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

In the front of the most commonly raised questions begin with an easy to read general
description of the question, followed by the actual text from the Massachusetts General Laws

(MGL) for those who want the actual language.
How does the role of the School Committee and that of the Superintendent differ?

The School Committee consists of people who live in and are elected by the community. We are your
neighbors: parents, grandparents, local business owners, retirees — ordinary citizens. We are
non-partisan and we receive no pay or benefits for this public service.

The School Committee has a dual role: to represent the concerns of the citizens, taxpayers and parents
to the school administrators, and to represent the needs of the students and school district to the
citizens, taxpayers and parents of the community.

The School Committee does not operate the district on a day-to-day basis; that is the job of the
superintendent, who is the district's chief executive. Rather, the School Committee sets the policies,
goals and objectives for the district — and it holds the superintendent responsible for implementing the

policies and achieving the goals.
Roles and Responsibilities of the SC; Massachusetts General Laws (MGL) Section 37

The school committee in each city and town and each regional school district shall have
the power to select and to terminate the superintendent, shall review and approve
budgets for public education in the district, and shall establish educational goals and
policies for the schools in the district consistent with the requirements of law and
statewide goals and standards established by the board of education. The school
committee in each city, town and regional school district may select a superintendent
jointly with other school committees and the superintendent shall serve as the
superintendent of all of the districts that selected him.

Roles and responsibilities of the Superintendent: MGL Section 59

The school committee of a town not in a superintendency union or district shall employ
a superintendent of schools and fix his compensation. A superintendent employed
under this section or section sixty or sixty-three shall manage the system in a fashion
consistent with state law and the policy determinations of that school committee. Upon
the recommendation of the superintendent, the school committee may also establish
and appoint positions of assistant or associate superintendents, who shall report to the
superintendent, and the school committee shall fix the compensation paid to such
assistant or associate superintendents. The school committee shall approve or
disapprove the hiring of said positions. Such approval by the school committee of the
recommendation shall not be unreasonably withheld; provided, however, that upon the
request of the superintendent the school committee shall provide an explanation of
disapproval.

| have a problem with my school, Is the School Committee the appropriate body to address it?

We recommend working up the chain of command. For instance, if a parent or guardian has a problem
with something happening within a classroom, (s)he should first address it with the teacher and, if the

Rev2
issue is not resolved, the parent/guardian should turn to the principal or supervisor, and then the
superintendent. The School Committee should be the "court of last resort".

SC Public Meetings

Do | have an opportunity to speak at the School Committee meetings?

State law requires a public comment period at School Committee meetings. Committees are allowed
to establish reasonable restrictions on the time, place and manner of public comment.

For instance, School committees typically set guidelines on the length of an individual's comment (e.g.,
A certain amount of time per person), so no one person dominates the meeting.

The Marblehead School Committee typically offers public comment at the beginning of each meeting,
prior to committee deliberation.

What is proper protocol for public participation?

Comments from citizens generally go through the chair at the school committee meeting, School
committees use the public comment period as an opportunity to listen to citizen concerns, but not to
debate issues or enter into a question-and-answer session or a "cross examination" between the
public and individual members.

Be aware that not all issues brought before a SC meeting will be resolved that evening. The committee
may respond to public comment by seeking additional information or by delegating the authority to
investigate the issue to the superintendent or his/her designee.

While public education can be an emotional issue, and understandably so, the SC will strive to
maintain a certain level of decorum at meetings. Many meetings are recorded or televised, and
students often attend or participate in the meetings. As such, citizens are expected to maintain a tone
of courtesy and civility.

How does the School Committee set its meeting rules?

The Marblehead School Committee follows the Massachusetts open meeting law and our meetings
are guided by Roberts rules of order, which describes how meetings are run, how motions and
votes are taken and other procedures.

Public Meetings; MGL Section 35.

All meetings of the school committee shall be open to the press and to the public,
except as otherwise authorized by section twenty-three A of chapter thirty-nine. The
vote on any particular measure shall be by yeas and nays, when requested by two
members.

SC Executive Sessions

Many questions rise over why and when the SC goes into Executive Sessions. Executive
Sessions can only be entered for very specific reasons such as confidential personnel issues,
contract bargaining strategy updates by the bargaining subcommittee, and to consider the
purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property, to name a few.

Rev2
To enter an Executive Session the SC must in an open session do a roll call vote to leave the
open session for the one or more specific reasons listed below. The SC must also notify
publicly whether the SC open session will reconvene after the Executive session concludes.

Many have questioned whether the SC uses the Executive Session to evade public scrutiny on
controversial issues. To dispel that notion the next sections are the MGL that clearly defines
which topics are permissible under the Executive Session sections.

Rev2

MA GL Section 21. (a) A public body may meet in executive session only for the
following purposes:

(1) To discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather
than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal
of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or
individual. The individual to be discussed in such executive session shall be notified in
writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session;
provided, however, that notification may be waived upon written agreement of the
parties. A public body shall hold an open session if the individual involved requests that
the session be open. If an executive session is held, such individual shall have the
following rights:

i. to be present at such executive session during deliberations which involve that
individual;
ii. to have counsel or a representative of his own choosing present and attending for the

purpose of advising the individual and not for the purpose of active participation in the
executive session;

iii. to speak on his own behalf; and

iv. to cause an independent record to be created of said executive session by
audio-recording or transcription, at the individual's expense.

The rights of an individual set forth in this paragraph are in addition to the rights that
he may have from any other source, including, but not limited to, rights under any laws
or collective bargaining agreements and the exercise or non-exercise of the individual
rights under this section shall not be construed as a waiver of any rights of the
individual.

2. To conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion
personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with
nonunion personnel;

3. To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the
public body and the chair so declares;

4. To discuss the deployment of security personnel or devices, or strategies with respect
thereto;

5. To investigate charges of criminal misconduct or to consider the filing of criminal
complaints;

6. To consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair
declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position
of the public body;
7. To comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law or federal
grant-in-aid requirements;

8. To consider or interview applicants for employment or appointment by a preliminary
screening committee if the chair declares that an open meeting will have a detrimental
effect in obtaining qualified applicants; provided, however, that this clause shall not
apply to any meeting, including meetings of a preliminary screening committee, to
consider and interview applicants who have passed a prior preliminary screening;

9. To meet or confer with a mediator, as defined in section 23C of chapter 233, with
respect to any litigation or decision on any public business within its jurisdiction
involving another party, group or entity, provided that:

(i) any decision to participate in mediation shall be made in an open session and the
parties, issues involved and purpose of the mediation shall be disclosed; and

(ii) no action shall be taken by any public body with respect to those issues which are
the subject of the mediation without deliberation and approval for such action at an
open session; or

10. to discuss trade secrets or confidential, competitively-sensitive or other proprietary
information provided in the course of activities conducted by a governmental body as an
energy supplier under a license granted by the department of public utilities pursuant
to section 1F of chapter 164, in the course of activities conducted as a municipal
aggregator under section 134 of said chapter 164 or in the course of activities
conducted by a cooperative consisting of governmental entities organized pursuant to
section 136 of said chapter 164, when such governmental body, municipal aggregator
or cooperative determines that such disclosure will adversely affect its ability to conduct
business in relation to other entities making, selling or distributing electric power and
energy.

(b) A public body may meet in closed session for 1 or more of the purposes enumerated
in subsection (a) provided that:

1. the body has first convened in an open session pursuant to section 21;

2. a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session and the
vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes;

3. before the executive session, the chair shall state the purpose for the executive
session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for
which the executive session was called;

4. the chair shall publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the
conclusion of the executive session; and

5. accurate records of the executive session shall be maintained pursuant to section 23.

Transparency:

Many responders to the survey stated that more transparency is extremely important. In
response to this important request Merriam Webster dictionary defines transparency as:

1. The quality or state of being transparent
2. Something transparent

Transparent is defined as:

Rev2
from pretense or deceit

easily detected or seen through: obvious

readily understood

characterized by visibility or accessibility of information especially concerning business
practices

PONE

All SC meetings are required to be open to the public unless the SC is required to hold an
Executive Session which must be entered only during an Open Session by reading the reasons
for the Executive Session and calling for a roll call vote.

The School Committee meetings are video recorded and minutes are published and both are
located on the SC webpage

Information on School Committee Meetings

The School Committee and sub committees meetings are published 48 hours in advance of the
meeting and are published on the Marblehead School Committee Web page and on the
Marblehead Town Calendar. Each posting contains the agenda, the video web address and/or
location of the meeting (if no location is given it is a video meeting only).

Budget Information
The budget books and planning documents are located on the Marblehead Public Schools Web

page https://www.marbleheadschools.org/ toggle the Budget link and it will bring to you the
budget information including the budget book (this book is typically 200+ pages). The length of

this document makes mass printing cost prohibitive.

Rev2
sm

CONSULTING AGREEMENT

This consulting agreement (hereinafter “Agreement”) is made as of October 9, 2024 by
and between the Marblehead School Committee, located at 9 Widger Road,
Marblehead, MA 01945 and Slowey/McManus Communications, a Massachusetts
business with offices located at 11 Beacon Street, Suite 1224, Boston, MA 02108
(“Consultant”).

WITNESSETH

WHEREAS, Marblehead School Committee wishes to contract with Consultant
for public relations and strategic consulting services.

WHEREAS, Consultant is willing and qualified to perform such services.

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements
herein contained and of other good and valuable consideration from each party to the
other paid, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties
hereto agree as follows:

ARTICLE I. SERVICES

Consultant agrees to manage a public relations plan for Marblehead School
Committee - outlined in Appendix A - to support its efforts to reach a collective
bargaining agreement with the Marblehead Education Association (hereinafter
“Services”).

ARTICLE I. COMPENSATION

For Consultant’s Services provided pursuant to this Agreement, the Marblehead
School Committee agrees to pay Consultant an initial retainer of $9,500.00. Consultant
shall bill hours against the retainer and alert the client if the hours worked are trending
over the initial retainer. The hourly rates are stated in Appendix B and shall be billed
in quarter hour increments. Prior to exceeding the full-amount of the retainer,
Consultant shall notify the client.

Consultant will be reimbursed by the Marblehead School Committee upon
receipt of appropriate documentation for all reasonable expenses approved in advance
by the Marblehead School Committee and incurred by Consultant in performance of
this Agreement. Consultant shall not apply a mark-up to said expenses.
ARTICLE Il. INVOICES

Consultant shall submit invoices to Marblehead School Committee for all
Services furnished and expenses incurred pursuant to this Agreement. Payment of said
invoices by Marblehead School Committee shall be net, due sixty (60) days from the
date of Consultant’s invoice. Consultant will be responsible for all federal, state and
local taxes with respect to amounts paid to consultant pursuant to this agreement.

ARTICLE IV. INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR

Consultant shall be deemed to be an independent contractor under this
Agreement and shall not be considered or permitted to be or shall hold itself out as an
employee, agent, servant, joint venturer or partner of Marblehead School Committee .
All persons performing work on behalf of Consultant under this Agreement shall be
considered to be solely the employees, agents, representatives or independent
contractors of Consultant, and Consultant shall be responsible for payment of any and
all wages and fees, any and all unemployment social security and/or other payroll taxes
for such persons, including any related assessments or contributions required by law.

ARTICLE V. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

Consultant recognizes and acknowledges that Marblehead School Committee
possesses "Confidential Information" which term shall include, but not be limited to, all
trade secrets, data, systems, operations, studies, research, membership lists, marketing
activities, reports or plans, business plans, financial statements and personnel data
related to the operation of Marblehead School Committee ’s business. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the term Confidential Information does not include information that (a) is
generally available to the public at the time this Agreement becomes effective; (b)
becomes generally known to the public after the effective date of this Agreement other
than as a result of the acts or omissions of Consultant; (c) is disclosed to third parties by
Marblehead School Committee without restriction on use and disclosure; (d) is lawfully
received by Consultant from an independent third party; or (e) Consultant is lawfully
required to disclose pursuant to subpoena, court order or otherwise after having
provided prior notice of said required disclosure to Marblehead School Committee .

Consultant agrees that neither it nor any of its principals, employees,
independent contractors, stockholders, agents or affiliates will disclose, divulge, use or
employ any Confidential Information except to the extent necessary to perform the
Services required of Consultant by Marblehead School Committee pursuant to this
Agreement. Upon termination of this agreement, Consultant will return or destroy, as
directed by Marblehead School Committee , all confidential information, copies and
extracts thereof, in Consultant’s possession.

Consultant agrees that any breach of this Article V by Consultant will cause
Marblehead School Committee substantial, irreparable and irrevocable harm.
Consultant therefore agrees that in the event of any breach of this Article V,
Marblehead School Committee shall be entitled, without posting a bond, to obtain an
injunction or other appropriate equitable relief to prevent such breach in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
The provisions of this Article V shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

ARTICLE VI. TITLE TO PRODUCT

All right, title and interest in the products and materials produced or developed
by Consultant or jointly by Consultant and Marblehead School Committee pursuant to
this Agreement shall be the exclusive property of Marblehead School Committee. All
right, title and interest therein shall vest in Marblehead School Committee and shall be
deemed to be a “work made for hire” under the United States copyright laws and made
in the course of this Agreement.

ARTICLE VII. WARRANTIES

Marblehead School Committee hereby warrants that all information it provides
to Consultant shall be accurate and correct to the best of its knowledge and information
and will not knowingly infringe upon any copyright, trademark, patent or other
intellectual property rights of any other person or entity. Marblehead School
Committee acknowledges that submission or transmission of material or information in
violation of any local, state or federal law is prohibited and is a breach of this
Agreement.

Consultant hereby warrants that the Services provided pursuant to this
Agreement shall be performed, in a good and workmanlike manner and shall not
infringe upon any copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights of any other
person or entity, by Dominic Slowey and James McManus, or by other qualified
personnel under the supervision of Dominic Slowey and James McManus. The
warranties stated herein shall be in lieu of any and all other warranties expressed or
implied, including but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and
fitness for a particular purpose. In no event shall Consultant be liable for special,
incidental or consequential damages.

The provisions of this Article VII shall survive the termination of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VII. INDEMNIFICATION

Consultant agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Marblehead
School Committee, its employees, elected or appointed officials, independent
contractors, agents and affiliates and their respective successors, heirs and assigns (each
an “Indemnitee”) against any liability, damage, judgment, loss or expense (including
reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses of litigation) incurred by or imposed upon any
Indemnitee in connection with any claims, suits, actions, demands or judgments arising
out of or resulting from any breach by such party of this Agreement and/or Consultant’s
negligent acts, errors or omissions in the performance of its services under the
agreement. Matters subject to this obligation to defend and indemnify include, without
limitation, claims of copyright infringement, patent infringement, misappropriation of
trade secrets, libel, slander, trade libel, defamation, harassment, invasion of privacy or
fraud.
The provisions of this Article VIII shall survive the termination of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IX. TERM

This Agreement shall remain in effect until both parties agree to a mutual conclusion
dependent on the status of contract negotiations. Notwithstanding the foregoing, either party
may terminate this Agreement for any reason by giving thirty (30) days written notice to the
other party.

ARTICLE X. NOTICE

All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or permitted
hereunder shall be in writing and shall be hand delivered, or mailed by certified mail,
postage prepaid, addressed as follows:

If to Consultant, to: Dominic Slowey
Principal Partner
Slowey/McManus Communications
11 Beacon Street, Suite 1224
Boston, MA 02108
dslowey@sloweymcmanus.com
781-710-0014

If to the Marblehead School Committee, to:
Jennifer Schaeffner
Chair, Marblehead School Committee
9 Widger Road
Marblehead, MA 01945
schaeffner.jennifer@marbleheadschools.org
(781) 803-0336

Each party to this Agreement may change or add addresses or addressees to
which notices are to be mailed or hand delivered by giving written notice thereof in
accordance with the provisions of this Article X.

ARTICLE XI. ASSIGNMENT

Neither this Agreement nor any provisions herein may be assigned without the
prior written consent of the other party.

ARTICLE XI. GOVERNING LAW

This Agreement shall be governed exclusively by the provisions hereof and by
the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts as the same may from time to time
exist. All disputes arising out of or related to this Agreement, or any breach hereof, shall
be resolved in the Trial and Appellate Courts of Massachusetts.
ARTICLE XIII. COUNTERPARTS

This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which
taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.

ARTICLE XIV. SEVERABILITY

If any provision of this Agreement or any part of such provision, or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is for any reason held invalid, illegal
or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not
affect any other provision or part of a provision of this Agreement; and such provisions
or part of a provision shall be reformed so that the application thereof shall be valid,
legal and enforceable to the maximum extent possible consistent with the intent of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE XV. ENTIRE AGREEMENT

This Agreement constitutes the entire Agreement between the parties and may
be amended or altered only by the written Agreement of the parties.

IN WITNESS WHEREOPF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed on
their behalf by their duly authorized representatives as of the date first written above.

Slowey/McManus Communications

By:

Dominic Slowey

Marblehead School Committee

By:

Jennifer Schaeffner
APPENDIX A

___slowey
memanus

COMMUNICATIONS

Marblehead Schools Communications Strategy

October 2024

Thank you for the opportunity to work together at this important moment as you communicate critical
information about the Marblehead Schools to the media and public. Contract negotiations with
teachers unions are sensitive and need to be managed transparently and vigorously to ensure that
accurate information is conveyed to the public during this process. We will help you to refine
messages, and compile and transit factual information to the media and public. As we discussed, the
specific strategy and activities we will undertake with you are outlined below.

1. Message Development and Training

Slowey McManus Communications will work with you to refine and update your messages to be
delivered through the press and other channels. We want to continue to reinforce the core message that
town revenues have been relatively flat and so the consequence of a major wage hike for all school
department employees, including teachers, would be staff reductions.

We will schedule Zoom message training sessions for spokespeople, including School Committee
Chair Jenn Schaeffner and Committee lead negotiator Sarah Fox, to facilitate a quick turnaround
during the week of October 14.

2. Media Outreach

SMC will work with you to reach out to the media, including the Boston Globe and Herald, the
Marblehead Current, Beacon and Weekly News, The Patch, radio stations including WBUR, GBH and
WBZ, and Boston television stations. We will share statements and press releases with all local media
to ensure our message is included in all coverage. We want to engage consistently and frequently with
the press throughout the process, regardless of how long it lasts.

We expect intense media and public interest in this controversy, especially if other communities see
teacher strikes, as some reports have suggested. We will stress the importance of being transparent and
accessible. We can conduct in person and Zoom media briefings and want to avoid one-on-one media
interviews so that we don’t get accused of playing favorites.

As part of this media outreach strategy, we will draft and edit letters to the editor and guest opinion
columns for the local news sites, including the Boston Globe, Marblehead Current, Marblehead
Beacon, Marblehead Weekly News, The Patch, and others. We will directly reach out to papers and
news sites that publish editorials to solicit editorial support. Any and all positive coverage will be
shared on Town social media channels.

3. Rapid Response

As this is a fast developing news story, SMC will continually monitor the press and relevant Facebook
and Twitter accounts each day to stay current on developments. In particular, the Current, Weekly
News and Patch post their news coverage and we will help to monitor and respond to posts there.
When needed and appropriate, we will work with you to respond to statements by the unions and other
parties.

4. Social Media

Our social media strategy will involve monitoring Facebook and X, formerly known as Twitter, for
local news sites and message boards that post coverage and for MEA supporters’ statements. If
appropriate we will create responses in order to fact check inaccurate or misleading information. We
can boost your own posts when needed to deliver widespread publication of important statements and
press releases. We recommend making statements available through the news sites’ social media
channels to guarantee maximum distribution.

5. Grass Roots Campaign

As negotiations continue, it will be necessary to enlist support from community leaders and
organizations to support the district’s positions. We will work with you to identify effective
individuals and organizations who can speak to the press and issue statements and letters to the editor.
Families of school children, teachers and former teachers, business leaders and others can be effective
spokespeople in delivering and validating the district’s positions.

6. Our Team
The Slowey McManus team will include Dom Slowey, Jim McManus, Grace O’Connor, and Lisa

Davis. We will schedule regular check in calls with you to track progress on all activities. The team is
experienced at crisis communications and campaigns involving education system controversies.
APPENDIX B

NAME
Dominic Slowey
James McManus
Lisa Davis
Grace O’Connor

slowey
memanu

COMMUNICATIONS

NONPROFIT HOURLY RATES
$350.00
$350.00
$200.00
$125.00
