7 {ee a
TONEEL ERK
Town Clerk Use Only

me OCT 18 AM 9:58

MEETING NOTICE

POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 30A § 20 Act relative to extending certain COVID-19 measures
adopted during the state of emergency

Marblehead School Committee — Collective Bargaining Sub Committee

Name of Board or Committee

Address: Marblehead High School — Library at 2 Humphrey St. Marblehead MA 01945

Monday November 4th 2024 3:00pm
Day of Week Month Date Year Time

Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (‘That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

I. Initial Business and Public Involvement

I. Initial Business

1. Call to Order

IL. Motion and vote to meet in executive session pursuant to Mass. General Laws chapter 30A section 21(a) Purpose (3) to
discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for collective bargaining with the Marblehead Education Association
Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals and Unit Custodians because an open discussion
may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the Committee;

© Purpose (2) to conduct collective bargaining session with the Marblehead Education Association Unit A, Unit Permanent
Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals, and Unit Custodians with the intent not to return to open session.

Chair’s Statement following roll call vote on the motion:

The Committee will now be meeting in executive session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A section
21(a) for purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for collective bargaining with the Marblehead
Education Association Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals, and Unit Custodians
because an open discussion may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the Committee; and purpose (2) to
conduct collective bargaining session with the Marblehead Education Association Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes,
Unit Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals and Unit Custodians with the intent not to return to open session.

Executive Session

Strategy discussion with respect to and in in preparation for collective bargaining with the Marblehead Education
Association Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals and Unit Custodians.

Collective bargaining session with the Marblehead Education Association Unit A and Unit Tutors.

THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE
Chairperson: Jennifer Schaeffner
Posted by: Jennifer Schaeffner
Date: 10/17/24

