A ome DAN tt OO

Town Clerk Use Only

POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 30A § 20 Act relative to extending certain COVID-19 measures
adopted during the state of emergency

Marblehead School Committee

Name of Board or Committee

Zoom Conference join via the web link or Dial in: https://marbleheadschools-
org.zoom.us/j/91 832000308?pwd=JhuKaJSsCpB9x VkHmrBaQ9zmRUHPpEX. 1
Meeting ID: 91832000308

Passcode: 918368

Dial by your location:

* +1 646 558 8656 US (New York)

Friday November 8th 2024 5:30PM

Day of Week Month Date Year Time

II.

IIL.

Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

Initial Business
a. Call to order

Motion and vote to meet in executive session pursuant to Mass. General Laws chapter 30A section
21(a) Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for collective bargaining with
the Marblehead Education Association Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit
Paraprofessionals, and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have a detrimental effect on
the bargaining position of the Committee with the intent to return to open session.

Chair’s Statement following roll call vote on the motion:

The Committee will now be meeting in executive session pursuant to Massachusetts Gencral Laws
chapter 30A section 21(a) for purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for
collective bargaining with the Marblehead Education Association Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes,
Unit Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals, and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have a
detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the Committee with the intent to return to open session.

Executive Session
Strategy discussion with respect to and in in preparation for collective bargaining with the Marblehead

Education Association Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals, and Unit
Custodians.

IV. Return to Open Session (NOT PRIOR to 6:00PM)
Vv. Update: Contract Negotiations
VI. Closing Business-New School Committee Announcements

Adjournment

THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Chairperson: _Jennifer Schaeffner

Posted by: _ Jennifer Schaefiher
Date: 11/6/24
