MEETING NOTICE

DATE POSTED:
coe LE bd be
jo Tov Se ft Oy

TIS MAR ~3 PHI2: 18

POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 30A § 20 Act relative to extending certain COVID-19 measures

adopted during the state of emergency

Marblehead School Committee Policy Subcommittee

Name of Board or Committee

Zoom Conference: https://marblehcadschools-
org.zoom.us/j/993 146055 12?pwd=vMxuBjr7RSpRimfZDrLcNoX WdsWqRq0.1
Meeting ID: 993 1460 5512

Password: 178023

Dial in Phone #: +1 646 931 3860 US

Friday

March

7

2025

11:30AM

Day of Weck

Month

Date

Year

Time

Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)
\

I Call to Order

IL Public Comment
Il. Discussion: draft Flag and Banner policy
Iv. School Committee Operating Protocols

Adjournment

THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Chairperson: Jennifer Schaeffner
Posted by: Jennifer Schaeftner

Date: 3/3/25

DRAFT POLICY IMDB

IMDB ~ Policy Regarding Display of Flags, Banners, and Symbolic Displays

The Marblehead School Committee, as the governing and policy-making body of the
Marblehead Public Schools, has the sole authority to determine that flags, banners, and
similar symbolic displays on school district property reflect the mission, vision, and values
of the school district and constitute the school district's government speech. The
Committee has therefore adopted this Policy which is subject to the following rutes.

1. Flags that have official legal status — the United States flag, the Massachusetts
State flag, and the POW/MIA flag — shall be displayed on school district property;
2. In addition, flags, banners, and similar symbolic displays that reflect the school
district’s mission, vision, and values shall be displayed at such times and
locations on school district property as determined by the School Committee

3. The School Committee will not accept any third party requests.
One University Avenue —T 617.862.2005

Valerio Suite 300B F 617.862.2025
} Dominello & Westwood, MA 02090 W VDHBoston.com
Hillman, tic

John Foskett, Esq.
John.Foskett@VDHBoston,.com

March 3, 2025

Via Email

Jennifer Schaeffner, Chair
Marblehead School Committee
9 Widger Road

Marblehead, MA 01945

RE: Policy — Display of Flags/Banners
Dear Chair Schacffner:

You have asked for an analysis that can be publicly released regarding the decision in
Shurtleff v. City of Boston, 596 US 243 (2022) and how it applies in the school setting regarding
the display of flags and banners.

Succinctly stated, Shurtleff held that the City of Boston’s routine allowance of the display
of various flags communicating a number of viewpoints on the City Hall Plaza was not
“government speech” that would immunize the City from compliance with the First Amendment
when it rejected a request to display a religious flag. As is customary with Supreme Court
decisions, Shurtleff laid out general principles to be developed in specific contexts by the lower
federal courts. One such question left open is Shurtleff’s application in schools.

Thus far there appears to be one relevant case that has been decided at the appellate level
in the federal system. The analysis in this memorandum must be read in light of the fact that as
of now there is very limited judicial guidance.

In Cajune v. Indep. Sch. Dist. 194, 105 F.4th 1070 (8" Cir, 2024), a lawsuit was filed
against a school district alleging a violation of the First Amendment by persons seeking to
display “All Lives Matter” and “Blue Lives Matter” posters in a school. The school district had
granted teachers’ requests to display “Black Lives Matters” posters in the school after reviewing
drafts and making a few revisions. The plaintiffs’ request was refused and the lawsuit followed.
After the trial court dismissed the First Amendment claims for failure to state a claim based on
Shurtleff, the plaintiffs appealed on multiple grounds. As to the First Amendment claims the
Valerio
} Dominello &

Hillman, tic

Jennifer Schaeffer, Chair
Marblehead School Committee
March 3, 2025

Page 2

Court of Appeals held that the plaintiffs had stated a valid claim and reversed the judgment of
dismissal. The court applied the three-part test adopted in Shurtleff'to determine whether the
posters were “government speech” of the school district such that it could deny the plaintiffs’
request without First Amendment liability.

First, regarding the “history of posting messages on school walls”, the court found that
the district “had not previously allowed private individuals to display a poster series” similar to
this. /d. at 1079. It rejected the trial court’s analysis that the posters were “government speech”
on the grounds that the school district had “‘reviewed, authorized, and provided the posters to
support staff [and students].’” /d. at 1080. The court pointed out that “private actors”, including

teachers, students, and families, were “involve[d]” “in the design and adoption” of the posters.
Id. at 1080.

Second, regarding the “public’s likely perception as to who—the government or a private
person—is speaking” the court noted that teachers were given discretion to display the posters
and to do so in their classrooms — both factors suggesting that this was “private speech”. Id. at
1080. It rejected as insignificant the fact that “the posters contain the District's logo, slogan,
website link, and a statement that ‘[t]his poster is aligned to School Board policy and an
unwavering commitment to our Black students, staff[,] and community members.’” Jd. at 1081.
The court ruled, applying Supreme Court precedent, that the posters cannot be “government
speech solely on the basis that the District affixed its seal of approval on them”. /d. at 1081.

Finally, regarding the third factor — “the extent to which the government has actively
shaped or controlled the expression” — the court held that this factor, too, had not been satisfied
by the school district, Among the relevant facts were that “the idea of the Inclusive Poster Series
originated with private persons, including ‘staff and families’ in the District”. Jd. at 1081. The
court ruled that “the mere existence of a review process with approval authority is insufficient by
itself to transform private speech into government speech”, noting that “the District maintained a
passive role in the design of the posters” because it made only limited changes and had gotten
input from “an ‘equity group,’ ‘students,’ ‘staff,’ and ‘other advisory committees.” /d, at 1081-
1082.

The Cajune decision is not binding law in the District of Massachusetts or in the First
Circuit. In addition, it was decided at an early stage of the lawsuit when inferences must be
drawn in favor of the plaintiffs based on their allegations. Nonetheless, nothing in its analysis
Valerio
} Dominello &

Hillman, tic

Jennifer Schaeffner, Chair
Marblehead School Committee
March 3, 2025

Page 3

can be said to clearly conflict with the general principles stated in Shurtleff. Pending further
development of the law in this area, it should be assumed that what is “government speech” in
the school district likely would be limited to speech determined and designed by the policy-
making body, the School Committee, and the Superintendent acting at the Committee’s
direction.

Teachers, students, and families are “private persons” in this context and cannot
determine “government speech”. Their involvement in the adoption of flags or banners could
compromise the district’s “government speech” immunity from having to comply with the First
Amendment. That, in turn, could subject the school district to potential First Amendment liability
for denying a request to display flags or banners which may be at odds with the district’s values
or best interests. Obviously, the merits of any such claim would be highly dependent on the
specific facts.

Given the current state of the law in this area, unless a flag or banner clearly meets the
“government speech” test the safest course is to display flags that have official legal status — the
United States flag, the Massachusetts flag, and the POW/MIA flag.

As an ancillary matter, it is important to keep in mind that G.L. c. 264, § 8 actually
imposes a fine for “displayfing] the flag or emblem of a foreign country” on the outside of a
school building. The statute has no exceptions for schools.

Very truly yours,

Cote Feat

John Foskett
JF:ham

ce: Thomas H. Costello, Esq.
