        Gerry School Building Committee and Marblehead School Committee
                               Joint Meeting Minutes
                                  January 16, 2020
        Glover Elementary School, 9 Maple Street, Marblehead, MA – 7:00 PM

                                                                            Late
 Building Committee Members Present/Absent                 Present Absent  [time
                                                                          arrived]
 Emily Barron                                                 X
 Jackie Belf-Becker [non-voting member]                              X
 Ben Berman                                                   X
 Todd Bloodgood                                                      X
 Michelle Cresta                                              X
 Eileen D’Amour                                               X
 Sarah Fox                                                    X
 David Harris                                                 X
 Kelly Lyons                                                         X
 Catherine Martin                                             X
 William McAlduff                                             X
 Jeremy Pollender                                             X
 Sean Satterfield                                             X
 Cindy Schieffer                                              X
 Aimee Sheppard                                               X
 Jason Silva                                                  X
 Ben Szalewicz                                                       X
 Ralph Wallace                                                X
 Erik Weibust                                                        X
 Donna Zaeske                                                 X
 Jim Zisson                                                   X

                                                                                Late
 School Committee Members Present/Absent                   Present Absent      [time
                                                                              arrived]
 Sarah Fox                                                     X
 Sarah Gold                                                    X
 David Harris                                                  X
 William McAduff                                               X
 Meghan Taylor                                                 X
 Jennifer Schaeffner                                           X

Guests: David Saindon, Jim Rogers, Brian Dakin [LF], Gene Raymond [RDA], Tripp McElroy,
Karen Flint (Gilbane)

   1. Call to Order
      Mr. Harris called the Building Committee meeting to order at 7:03 PM.
      Ms. Gold called the School Committee meeting to order at 7:03 PM.


20_0116 GESBC+SC JOINT MTG NOTES FINAL
Page 1 of 11
       Gerry School Building Committee and Marblehead School Committee
                              Joint Meeting Minutes
                                 January 16, 2020
       Glover Elementary School, 9 Maple Street, Marblehead, MA – 7:00 PM

  2. Approval of Meeting Minutes
     Mr. Saindon noted that meeting minutes were distributed to the Committee on
     Monday.
     Mr. McAlduff made Building Committee motion to approve the meeting minutes
     from 12/04/19. The motion was seconded by Mr. Wallace and approved
     unanimously by those Building Committee members present tonight and on 12/4.

  3. Approval of Monthly Invoices For Contracts
     Mr. Saindon indicated that there were no invoices for approval tonight but there will
     be at the January 30th meeting.

  4. Approval of Project-Related Commitments
     Mr. Saindon noted there were no new commitment for tonight’s meeting but
     indicated that Gilbane is anticipating finalizing an RTA [Recommendation To
     Award] letter for abatement and demolition scope within the next week. He
     explained that on past projects, Leftfield is typically authorized to review and
     execute all RTA’s, often with an assigned point person form the Committee. He
     noted that a typical RTA document includes a list of the bidders and their proposed
     values, identification of a low bidder plus a list of any additional holds or allowances
     versus the control budget. He also noted that the value of RTA’s versus the control
     budget will vary by award, some will be over while most are hopefully under. He
     explained that due to the time sensitivity often involved with making these awards,
     Leftfield recommends that the Committee authorize Leftfield and either Mr. Wallace
     or Mr. Pollender to approve RTA’s and report the information back to the
     Committee at the next meeting. He continued, explaining that RTA’s would
     ultimately be grouped together and processed as a contract amendment to Gilbane.
     These contracts amendments would align with early scope release packages and
     culminate in a GMP amendment for the entire construction value. He indicated that
     there will be a consistent flow of RTA’s over the next 6-10 months. Mr. Harris noted
     that if an RTA were not time-sensitive and there was a pending Committee meeting,
     those could come directly to the Committee. Mr. McElroy explained that Gilbane’s
     RTA letters closely align with Mr. Saindon’s explanation and added that backup
     includes all detailed bid information. Ms. Fox noted that she would rather see these
     approvals completed by a sub-committee. Mr. Berman asked for confirmation that a
     single point-person could consult others on the committee. Ms. Fox responded that
     even if this is the case it can’t be mandated. Mr. Rogers noted that prompt approval
     of RTA’s is often required due to the schedule. Mr. Saindon noted that a committee
     structure and posting would slow this process down. Ms. Fox noted disagreement
     and reiterated that a sub-committee would be preferred. Ms. Martin agreed. Ms. Fox
     asked Gilbane how often RTA’s must be approved within 48 hours. Mr. McElroy
     responded that it happens somewhat often and indicated that subcontractors will
     not act or release any material (even with long lead times) until their contracts are
     approved and signed. Ms. Martin noted that a sub-committee could meet to

20_0116 GESBC+SC JOINT MTG NOTES FINAL
Page 2 of 11
       Gerry School Building Committee and Marblehead School Committee
                              Joint Meeting Minutes
                                 January 16, 2020
       Glover Elementary School, 9 Maple Street, Marblehead, MA – 7:00 PM

     authorize the pending first RTA then afterwards the duties could be assigned to an
     individual. Ms. Fox added that the sub-committee could propose the individual. Mr.
     McAlduff noted that in his experience these RTA letters are pretty much never
     denied for approval as they are pre-vetted and include the low responsible bidder.
     He asked if the Committee had the authority to deny acceptance of a low responsible
     bid. Mr. Saindon noted agreement and responded that in his experience he has
     never seen a proposed RTA not approved, as due diligence it performed in advance
     by the CM and project team. Mr. Wallace confirmed that certainly with the filed-sub-
     bid trade categories, there are very few options outside of accepting the low
     responsible bid. Mr. McAlduff added that he has had experience with a previous
     committee that attempted to approve RTA’s and encountered issues with timeliness.
     The Committee discussed the demo and abatement scope being on the critical path
     due to it being the first activity that all others follow, and further discussed whether
     to approve RTA’s at a sub-committee or individual point-person level.

     Mr. Berman made a Building Committee motion to authorize Mr. Wallace to review
     and approve RTA’s on behalf of the Committee. All approved RTA’s are to be
     reviewed at the subsequent Building Committee meeting. Mr. Wallace will consult
     with other Committee members as needed. In the event that Mr. Wallace is not
     available to review and approve any specific RTA, Mr. Pollender is authorized to
     perform the same role. The motion was seconded by Ms. Martin. Mr. Zisson noted
     the importance of approved RTA’s being presented to the Committee at the next
     meeting. The motion was approved unanimously by those Building Committee
     members present.

  5. Chairman Update
     The Committee proceeded to complete Agenda Item 6.1 below before returning to this
     Agenda Item 5.
     Mr. Harris noted that a new Superintendent was hired Monday and thanked the
     screening committee. He indicated that at some point in coming months the new
     Superintendent would replace Mr. McAlduff on the Building Committee.

     Mr. Harris noted that himself, Ms. Martin, Mr. Zisson and Mr. Wallace attended the
     January 13th Bell Neighborhood Meeting and that it went very well. Ms. Martin
     indicated that Gilbane gave a straight forward presentation and assured attendees
     that they will be a respectful guest in the neighborhood. She indicated that there
     were good questions, that the panel provided good responses and that overall it was
     a very positive meeting. She also noted that the website is coming online and other
     forms of communication are being launched. Mr. Harris noted one question was
     whether work on Saturdays could start at 9AM instead of 8AM and noted that the
     Project was going to take that point under consideration as subcontractors are hired
     and detailed worked out with the schedule. He also noted that rock crushing was
     brough up and it’s limitation or elimination from the site would also be considered.

20_0116 GESBC+SC JOINT MTG NOTES FINAL
Page 3 of 11
       Gerry School Building Committee and Marblehead School Committee
                              Joint Meeting Minutes
                                 January 16, 2020
       Glover Elementary School, 9 Maple Street, Marblehead, MA – 7:00 PM

     Mr. Zisson noted that a study should pursue whether this was feasible and added
     that offsite trucking could also pose issues to the neighborhood in terms of truck
     noise, dust and traffic. Mr. Pollender requested that Gilbane investigate options and
     estimate a financial impact. Mr. McElroy confirmed Gilbane would look into this.

     Mr. Saindon indicated that the project was recently invited to attend a newly
     required Design Development-phase check-in meeting with the MSBA. He noted that
     previous MSBA check-in meetings have occurred throughout the process and have
     included the District/MSBA kick off meeting held after the OPM and Designer were
     hired, the FAS [Facility Assessment Subcommittee] meetings which occurred in
     2018 as part of the PSR [Preferred Schematic Report] phase and the Project Scope +
     Budget Meeting which occurred after the submittal of the Schematic Design and
     prior to the MSBA BOD approval. He indicated that this DD check-in meeting is a
     new requirement of the MSBA and was held yesterday at the MSBA’s offices in
     Boston. The intent of the meeting was to debrief the core MSBA team about design
     changes that have occurred from Schematic Design to the pending DD submission,
     to provide an update on the reconciled construction estimate, to confirm that the
     pending DD submission budget was going to be in alignment with previous
     milestone budgets and to provide MSBA with a schedule update. Mr. Saindon
     reported that Mr. Raymond did a great job. Mr. Raymond presented a summary of
     the design updates that have occurred and were presented to the MSBA. Mr.
     Saindon indicated that though this was a new meeting within the MSBA process, all
     those involved agreed that RDA’s presentation would be used as an example for
     future meetings. Mr. Saindon indicated that Leftfield presented a high-level
     construction estimate reconciliation including the updates that the two estimates
     are within .34% of each other and that the Project is on budget based on
     implementing a nominal amount of value management. Mr. Harris noted that the
     MSBA said there are 15 MSBA projects out to bid this year and that larger projects
     were struggling with bid results while smaller ones were having more success. Mr.
     Raymond reported that square footage hasn’t moved despite the presented changes,
     which were driven by staff input and have made the building a lot better in RDA’s
     opinion.
     Ms. Fox noted that it seemed that, due to the configuration of the second floor, that
     the current design did not support the ability to close the civic area of the building
     off from the school for night and community events. Mr. Raymond indicated that
     RDA has not forgot about this requirement and will resolve how it is accomplished
     in the coming weeks and months.
     Mr. Harris indicated that upcoming meetings include the January 28th ZBA hearing
     at 8:30PM in the Abbot Hall Selectmen’s Room and the January 29th Planning
     hearing at 7:30PM at the 10 Humphrey Street Community Center.
     Mr. Harris noted that Ms. Martin recently sent a memo to himself and to School
     Committee. Ms. Martin noted that she sent the memo on January 9th to Ms. Gold and
     Mr. Harris’s attention based on the School Committee meeting January 2. She

20_0116 GESBC+SC JOINT MTG NOTES FINAL
Page 4 of 11
       Gerry School Building Committee and Marblehead School Committee
                              Joint Meeting Minutes
                                 January 16, 2020
       Glover Elementary School, 9 Maple Street, Marblehead, MA – 7:00 PM

     explained that she felt the School Committee wanted more information and
     oversight of the Building Committee to understand how the Project was
     progressing. As a result, she made a list of topics that the Committees should see
     including typical classrooms, typical special education spaces, security, the kitchen,
     cafeteria and general site plan to help manage expectations. She indicated that she
     has spoken with Mr. Saindon and understands that some of these items are already
     planned to flow through the Building Committee when the right time comes. She
     noted that the Committee, or a sub-committee should be presented more details
     about the MEP system and know it can be run. Mr. Saindon indicated that the
     project’s mechanical design engineer, GGD, is lined up to attend the January 30th
     Building Committee meeting and that topics will include MEP and security systems,
     site lighting, typical classrooms, the media center, the cafeteria, geotechnical
     considerations plus others. Mr. Raymond noted that the major mechanical systems
     have already been selected. Mr. McAlduff noted that he has never seen a mechanical
     system selected or detailed based on the current staff’s ability to run the building or
     operate the system. He explained that these systems are new for each project and
     indicated that ample training and an understanding of future operating costs are
     very important. Mr. Saindon noted that Leftfield has a mechanical specialist on staff
     who will help fill in the gaps in training and will remain available into occupancy to
     assist getting staff accustomed to the required systems and maintenance.
     Mr. Harris noted that Michelle Cresta (the School’s new Business Manager) has
     replaced Rebecca Curran on the Building Committee roster and also that Elizabeth
     Rudzinski was removed as she resigned from the Committee. He reported that the
     updated roster was delivered to the MSBA yesterday.

  6. Designer, Contractor, Owners Project Manager Update(s);
     6.1 Contractor Controlled Insurance Program (CCIP) presentation
     Mr. Sandon noted that is a type of project insurance offered by some large
     Construction Management firms. Ms. Karen Flint presented the Committee a
     summary of CCIP insurance and contrasted it with a “traditional” approach
     including general lability, workers comp, builders risk, professional liability and
     others. She explained that the main difference was that with the traditional
     approach, all parties carry their own insurance and build it into their costs. In the
     event a claim arises, all parties insurance works to determine who is responsible for
     coverage. Typically this approach results in general liability limits totaling $25m.
     Under a CCIP the general liability and workers comp for all subs and Gilbane are
     covered under one single policy with claim limits of $100m. She added that the CCIP
     program also works down the line when warranties might be expired. Ms. Flint
     noted that CCIP policies tend to help attract smaller subcontractors and smaller
     shops who have excessive insurance costs. She summarized that the net impact to
     the project estimate is approximately $133k in savings to go with the CCIP plan. Ms.
     Fox asked what percentage of projects of comparable size to this project size end up
     with a CCIP insurance plan. Ms. Flint responded that while approximately 25% of all

20_0116 GESBC+SC JOINT MTG NOTES FINAL
Page 5 of 11
       Gerry School Building Committee and Marblehead School Committee
                              Joint Meeting Minutes
                                 January 16, 2020
       Glover Elementary School, 9 Maple Street, Marblehead, MA – 7:00 PM

     Gilbane projects use CCIP, closer to 80% of projects above $25m in construction
     value do. Ms. Flint and the Committee discussed trade contractor pre-qualification,
     the administrative process of claims in a CCIP plan, requirements for monthly
     certified payroll, and the benefit of Gilbane holding and managing all insurance
     events for subcontractors. Mr. Wallace noted that he has had the opportunity to
     review the proposal and has confirmed that the costs are at the low end of the
     spectrum for such a plan. He noted that most CM’s ultimate profit off of these plans,
     but when the finances work in the project’s favor it’s an easy decision as the
     coverage is much better than a traditional policy.

     Mr. Wallace made a Building Committee motion to authorize Gilbane to proceed
     with a CCIP insurance policy for the Project. The motion was seconded by Ms. Fox
     and approved unanimously by those Building Committee members present.

     6.2 Permitting Update
     Mr. Saindon referenced the attached permitting outline. He summarized key
     approvals including Zoning Board special permit approval in January and February
     and site plan review and land disturbance with the Planning Board which is targeted
     for March completion. He explained that there is no local permit required for
     abatement activities but it is listed here as it is regulated by the DEP. He indicated
     that the demolition permit is close to completion. Mr. McElroy indicated that Gilbane
     was two signatures away from that signoff. Mr. Saindon noted that Mr. Roche from
     Gilbane has already met with the Tree Warden to discuss the shade tree application,
     that the structural peer review was underway and due next Friday and that the fire
     protection peer review is scheduled to occur further into design. Mr. Saindon also
     summarized target dates for permits issued by the Building Commissioner beyond
     demolition.
     Mr. Pollender asked if this schedule has been reviewed with the various associated
     Town departments. Mr. Saindon indicated that this schedule was based on various
     conversations with the Town including the Building Commissioner.
     Ms. Fox noted that there was a lot of concern at recent School and Building
     Committee meetings about permitting which lead to this joint meeting. The
     Committees discussed how communication about the development of the Project’s
     permitting path and schedule evolved from November into Committee meetings in
     early December. Ms. Fox expressed concern that updated information did not make
     it to Committee meetings and asked why the plan to attend Zoning and Planning
     Board meetings changed in December. Ms. Schaeffner agreed with Ms. Fox and
     noted that the Project seems to have had to submit for local approvals at the last
     minute. Mr. Saindon indicated that the Project’s permitting plans did evolve based
     on new information received during the month of December and that he felt the
     Project handled the changes well and that key stakeholders were kept updated as
     the plans changed. He indicated that in the hours before the Building Committee
     meeting at Eveleth School on December 4th, he and Mr. Silva had an initial discussion

20_0116 GESBC+SC JOINT MTG NOTES FINAL
Page 6 of 11
       Gerry School Building Committee and Marblehead School Committee
                              Joint Meeting Minutes
                                 January 16, 2020
       Glover Elementary School, 9 Maple Street, Marblehead, MA – 7:00 PM

     that indicated the previous project permitting plan had to change. He indicated that
     the full impact of the changes were not understood at the time and that the project
     team and Town needed time to understand the impact and identify solutions. He
     continued, explaining that leading up to the School Committee meeting on
     December 12th Leftfield and the Town worked to recalibrate the permitting
     schedule and an outline was sent to the Building Committee prior to the December
     12th School Committee meeting. He indicated he understood the email was
     forwarded to the School Committee and that as of the December 12th School
     Committee meeting, the Project’s intent remained to commence with local
     permitting submissions on December 19th. However, based on further conversations
     with Mr. Silva, Ms. Curran and RDA on December 17th, the plan was again revised to
     move initial local permitting applications from December 19th until the next
     available dates in early January. Mr. Saindon summarized that despite these
     changes, the presented outline tonight resolves the issued and there has been no
     schedule impact to commencement of site activities or the final move-in and project
     completion dates.
     Mr. Silva provided additional context: Back in May the project team was given
     direction that by invoking the Dover Amendment, the Project would not be required
     to go through Zoning and Planning approvals. This was based on the Town’s
     understanding at the time. He indicated that the Project proceeded under that
     direction/understanding and that the Town received a letter in November stating
     that the Project would invoke the Dover Amendment. Upon sending that letter to
     Town counsel several weeks elapsed before the Town received a phone call from
     Town counsel that indicated that the previous advice given to the project team was
     not in alignment with the details on the Dover Amendment interacts with local
     bylaws. He indicated that the phone call on December 4th was the first indication
     that the project would have to quickly alter course and go through Zoning and
     Planning approval. He indicated that he called Mr. Saindon and noted Mr. Saindon
     reacted methodically and worked with the Town and team to identify the impact of
     this news and to chart a course through new local approvals without a greater
     impact to the schedule. Ms. Martin indicated that she brough up concerns about the
     permitting timeline in October. Mr. Silva responded that he recalled the discussions,
     but that the understanding held at the time was up-ended by Town counsel input
     received more than a month after. Mr. Zisson asked whether the reason December
     19th applications were not possible is because the information could not be hurried
     together in time. Mr. Raymond indicated that was effectively the case and noted that
     the Town’s Planning Board worked with the Project to provide an additional
     schedule option that still lead the project to the same February Planning meeting
     that the Project would have attended if the December 19th applications could have
     been created properly in time. Mr. Zisson noted he felt it was evident that there has
     been no impact to the schedule as a result of these changes. Mr. Saindon indicated
     that a lot of details within the schedule will continue to change as project details
     come into focus but that completion dates will be held. He reiterated that the

20_0116 GESBC+SC JOINT MTG NOTES FINAL
Page 7 of 11
       Gerry School Building Committee and Marblehead School Committee
                              Joint Meeting Minutes
                                 January 16, 2020
       Glover Elementary School, 9 Maple Street, Marblehead, MA – 7:00 PM

     changes to the permitting path have not affected any overall critical path schedule
     items. Mr. McElroy agreed.
     Ms. Schaeffner asked if there is any anticipated cost impact. Mr. Saindon responded
     there will be additional services for the Design team for the additional permitting
     events. Ms. Martin expressed disagreement that there should be any additional
     services for these permitting activities and noted they should have been carried in
     the project budget.
     The Committees discussed perceived issues of communication and trust between
     Project entities. Ms. Schieffer asked what the thoughts of the School and Town were
     in regards to how the project has been developing. Mr. McAlduff responded that he
     feels very good about how the Project is proceeding and indicated the efforts of the
     OPM were essential in keeping the Project on track through the changes to the
     permitting process. He indicated that he has no concerns about the Project team or
     progress. Mr. Silva responded that he was at the MSBA DD debrief meeting and
     noted how the MSBA staff who attended said that they felt the Project’s presentation
     could be used as a prototype for other projects who will be attending this new
     meeting in their process. He indicated that feedback was only positive, that the
     changes from SD to DD were well received and that the budget looks good. He
     summarized that his only concern was the successful resolution of the permitting
     process. Ms. Gold asked is Mr. Saindon had any concerns. Mr. Saindon responded
     that he’d request the Committees work enable the Project team to proceed in as
     efficient a manner as possible and noted that it often feels like the team’s hands are
     tied in terms of making the hundreds of decisions needed to move a project of this
     complexity forward within it’s planned process, schedule and budget. Mr. Rogers
     noted agreement that project efficiency is a key component to a Project’s success
     and noted that while Leftfield is here to support the Committee, the team often
     spends more time handling political issues than actually working to move the
     Project forward effectively and as planned. He summarized that the length,
     complexity and detail of this meeting is a microcosm of the project itself. Ms. Gold
     asked Mr. Raymond what his feelings were. Mr. Raymond noted he was very
     frustrated and felt that after a few years of working together there would be more
     trust in the project team. Ms. D’Amour responded that there is trust among the
     teachers and staff. Mr. Satterfield agreed and noted that teachers are very excited
     and have got to know Mr. Raymond and his team through various meetings,
     presentations, discussions and question/answer sessions. He indicated that people
     are excited about the site and building design and commented that the building has
     exciting features and is not a large, boring box. Mr. Pollender noted that if the
     Committees can’t enable the consultants to work efficiently than the project can be
     exposed to delays. Mr. Wallace agreed and noted he felt the Project had a solid team
     in place and that the Committee needs to enable them to move forward. He
     summarized that despite the surprises in permitting, he’s hearing that the project is
     on schedule, on budget and that all news is good.


20_0116 GESBC+SC JOINT MTG NOTES FINAL
Page 8 of 11
       Gerry School Building Committee and Marblehead School Committee
                              Joint Meeting Minutes
                                 January 16, 2020
       Glover Elementary School, 9 Maple Street, Marblehead, MA – 7:00 PM

     6.3 Design Development Construction Estimate / Budget Update
     Mr. McElroy explained Gilbane’s estimate process including reconciliation with the
     Designer’s estimate and noted it will repeat at 60% CD and 90% CD. Mr. Saindon
     presented a DD estimate summary:
      Elbridge Gerry Elementary School DD Estimate Reconciliation/VE Summary

      Schematic Design Control Estimate           $   43,786,427     12/6/2018

      DD Estimate Reconciliation
        Gilbane                                   $   43,780,742    12/12/2019
        Ellana                                    $   43,631,509    12/19/2019
        Value Delta                               $      149,233
        % Delta                                           -0.34%

      Gilbane reconciled estimate                 $   43,780,742
      Pending VE items
         Increase design/estimating contingency   $      800,000 Increase from 3% to 5%
         Civil/landscape                          $     (223,001)
         Architectural                            $     (374,529)
         MEP                                      $     (199,001)
      Adjusted Reconciled Estimate incl. VE       $   43,784,211
      Over/(under) Schematic Design Control
      Budget                                      $       (2,216)
     He indicated that the estimates were performed from mid-November through early
     December and that they were not complete when the Committee met on December
     4th. The following weeks into mid-December were spent reviewing, comparing,
     reconciling, and clarifying the estimates. As part of the process, the team developed
     a value management log. He noted that the previous estimating/design contingency
     was 10% (and that it will ultimately go to 0 once the project is completely designed
     and bought out) and that via reconciliation the team agreed to move the number to
     5% based on the strong level of completion of the DD documents. He noted there
     was a debate as to whether to further reduce the contingency to 3% and therefor
     not have to identify value management items, but that the team agreed that 3% is
     too low to carry at this time mostly due to volatile market conditions. Mr. Saindon
     reviewed the value management log with the Committees, indicated that a number
     of items highlighted in yellow are more clarifications based on a lack of clarity on
     the developing documents as opposed to a more simple removal or limiting of scope
     cost drivers, and noted the recommended value management items total +/- $800k.
     He indicated that by implementing this value management and retaining a 5%
     estimating and design contingency, the project remains on budget at DD. He also
     noted that as future estimating and buyouts are completed, certain items on this list
     could be brough back into the project scope as finances allow.

20_0116 GESBC+SC JOINT MTG NOTES FINAL
Page 9 of 11
       Gerry School Building Committee and Marblehead School Committee
                              Joint Meeting Minutes
                                 January 16, 2020
       Glover Elementary School, 9 Maple Street, Marblehead, MA – 7:00 PM

     Ms. Martin noted she has no problem with the site wall type switch but noted she is
     a little nervous about reducing the playground structure budget as this equipment is
     expensive and the project needs to maintain good level of scope here. She asked that
     the team revisit the $20k deduct value to remove the path on the North side of the
     building as it still seemed light to her. Ms. Fox asked if the savings from the CCIP
     could fund accepting less items on the value management log. Mr. Saindon
     responded that it’s still very early in project buyout and that maintaining flexibility
     to buffer against some over-budget scopes is preferred. Mr. Harris noted that if the
     sole concern is the reduction of the playground equipment, then the Committee
     could defer on that item.

     Ms. Martin made a Building Committee motion to not accept the reduction in the
     playground equipment allowance and to restore it to the pre-value management
     value in the final DD package. The motion was second by Mr. Zisson and passed
     unanimously by those Building Committee members present.

     6.4 DD Space Summary Update & 6.5 DD – General Design Update
     Mr. Raymond presented un update on recent activities including the DD cost
     estimate review meetings, the December 12th SC presentation, coordination with
     permitting officials over the holidays, Planning and ZBA application submittals on
     January 2nd, release of the Early Works Package #3 for site, underground MEP,
     elevator, foundation and steel on January 7th, the Neighborhood Meeting on January
     13th and the MSBA DD debrief January 15th. He highlighted plan updates since SD
     including site updates and the reconfigured admin suite to provide better security
     and flow.
     Mr. Satterfield noted he likes the concept of the revised entry lobby but doesn’t want
     it to look and feel overly heavy and secure visually. Ms. Zaeske agreed.
     Ms. Martin noted the site plan updates look great.
     Ms. D’Amour asked how many student the amphitheater could accommodate. Ms.
     Martin responded upwards of two classrooms.

     6.6 Approval to Submit Design Development to the MSBA
     Ms. Schieffer made a Building Committee motion that, pursuant to the presentation
     made tonight on design changes from Schematic Design through Design
     Development including review of the construction estimate reconciliation and value
     management to maintain the construction and total project budget, I recommend
     RDA & Leftfield to submit the DD package to the MSBA for their review and
     consideration. The motion was seconded by Ms. Wallace and approved unanimously
     by those Building Committee members present.

     Ms. Gold asked if a motion was required by the School Committee. Mr. Harris and
     Mr. Saindon responded that one was not required.


20_0116 GESBC+SC JOINT MTG NOTES FINAL
Page 10 of 11
       Gerry School Building Committee and Marblehead School Committee
                              Joint Meeting Minutes
                                 January 16, 2020
       Glover Elementary School, 9 Maple Street, Marblehead, MA – 7:00 PM

  7. Various Task Assignment Updates;
     None.

  8. New Business, not reasonably anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of
     the meeting;
     None.

  9. Public comment
     Leanne (Last name note recorded) – 5 Higgins Road – Noted concerns about rock
     crushing and it’s associated noise and health risks and asked how notifications for
     hearings to the neighborhood will be handled. Mr. Silva indicated that notification to
     abutters will occur through the Planning Board.

  10. Adjournment
      Ms. Martin made a motion to adjourn the Building Committee meeting at 10:10PM.
      The motion was seconded by Mr. Silva and approved unanimously by those present.

     Ms. Gold made a motion to adjourn the School Committee meeting at 10:10PM.




20_0116 GESBC+SC JOINT MTG NOTES FINAL
Page 11 of 11
