                                                                                         DATE POSTED:

                                                                                                    Town Clerk Use Only




                                          MEETING NOTICE
                          POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 30A §§18-25


                                        Marblehead School Committee
                                          Name of Board/Committee


   Address of Meeting: District Administrative Offices, 9 Widger Road, Marblehead, MA

   Room: Superintendent’s Conference Room

   Wednesday                  August                   28                2019                4:15PM
   Day of week                Month                   Date               Year                 Time
         Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)


                                                    AGENDA
1. Public Meeting
      1. Call to Order
      2. Motion to enter into Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws: Chapter 30A,
          section 21 exemption number (2): to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations for
          non-union personnel, i.e., Director of Finance position, or to conduct collective bargaining
          sessions or contract negotiations with non-union personnel with the intention of returning to
          open session.

2. Executive Session
      1. Meeting in Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws: Chapter 30A, section 21
         exemption number (2): to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations for non-
         union personnel, i.e., Director of Finance position, or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or
         contract negotiations with non-union personnel.

3. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion Items

       1. Approval of contract for Director of Finance position                            (vote)


4. Closing Business
      1. Adjournment

                                    THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE
Chairperson: Sarah Gold

Posted by:   Sarah Gold

Date:        Monday, August 26, 2019
