                                             MEETING NOTICE
                             POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 30A §§18-25


                                           Marblehead School Committee
                                             Name of Board/Committee


      Address of Meeting: Marblehead High School, 2 Humphrey Street, Marblehead, MA

      Room: Library

      Thursday                   September                5                 2019                6:00PM
      Day of week                Month                   Date               Year                 Time
            Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)


                                                        AGENDA

 I.   Public Meeting
         1. Call to Order
         2. Motion to enter into Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws: Chapter 30A,
             section 21 exemption number (3): to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or
             litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating
             position of the public body and the chair so declares. Open session will reconvene after the
             Executive Session is adjourned or at 7:00pm, whichever occurs second.
         3. Executive Session
                  a. Meet in Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws: Chapter 30A,
                      section 21 exemption number (3): to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining
                      or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or
                      litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares. Open session will
                      reconvene after the Executive Session is adjourned or at 7:00pm, whichever occurs
                      second.

II.   Initial Business and Public Involvement
          1. Commendations
          2. Public Comment
          3. Student Representative
III.   Superintendent of School’s Report
          1. District Reports and Updates
                 a. Opening Day Report
                 b. Enrollment Information
                 c. Personnel Update
                 d. Transportation Update

IV.    Finance Organizational Support
          1. Schedule of Bills                                       (vote)
          2. FY 20 Budget Update

 V.    School Committee Communication and/or Discussion Items
          1. Superintendent Search
                a. Review of Request for Proposals                   (vote?)
          2. Review of School Committee and Superintendent Goals for 19/20 school year
          3. BCG Building Update
          4. Approval of Policies                                    (vote)
          5. Donations                                               (vote)
          6. Proposed MHS Fitness Center Supervisor Stipend          (vote)
          7. Approval of 2019-2020 Liaisons/Sub-committees           (vote)

VI.    Closing Business
          1. New Business
          2. Correspondence
          3. Adjournment

                                 THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE


       Chairperson: Sarah Gold

       Posted by:   Sarah Gold

       Date:        Tuesday, September 5, 2019
