                                                                                                       DATE POSTED:

                                                                                                                   Town Clerk Use Only




                                                  MEETING NOTICE
                                  POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONSOF MGL 30A § 20
                              Active Relative to certain COVID-19 measures adopted during the state of emergency


                                         Marblehead School Committee
                                                  Name of Board or Committee

Address:     Zoom Conference join via the web link or Dial in

                 Link: https://us06web.zoom.us/j/5064503898
                 Meeting ID: 506 450 3898
                 Dial in Phone # (415) 762-9988 with ID and follow prompts

       Thursday                    October                       21st                       2021                     7:00pm
      Day of Week                   Month                        Date                       Year                      Time

           Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

                                         THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

            I.    Initial Business and Public Comment
                  a. Call to Order
                  b. Commendations
                  c. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
                  d. Public Comment

            II. Consent Action and Agenda Items
                a. Minutes- 4/15/2021 and 4/29/2021                                                                (Vote)

            III. Superintendent Report
                 a. Day 0 Update-High Principal Daniel Bauer
                 b. Planning for Success PfS Teaching and Learning Update-Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy
                 c. Kindergarten-3rd Grade Scheduling Committee Update-Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy
                 d. PreK Class Increase-Director of Student Services, Paula Donnelly
                 e. Superintendent District Updates
                    i. Substitute Pay Increase                                                (Vote)

            IV. Finance and Organizational Support
                a. Schedules                                                                                       (Vote)

            V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion Items
               a. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DEI Mission Statement Presentation-Office of Teaching and Learning
               b. Review of Policies
                  i. IJNDD Social Networking Policy for Staff
                  ii. IJOB Community Resource Persons/Speakers
                  iii. IJOC School Volunteers
               c. School Committee Goals and Evaluations Discussion
               d. New Business
               e. Correspondence


                   Motion and vote to meet in executive session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 30A
                   section 21(a) purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to litigation, specifically, Boyd-Perry v.
                   Marblehead Public Schools, et al. MCAD 21BEM01943/EEOC 16C-2022-00020, because an open
                   session may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the Committee and the Chair so
                   declares.

            Executive Session

               Meeting in Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 30A section 21(a) purpose
               (3) to discuss strategy with respect to litigation, specifically, Boyd-Perry v. Marblehead Public Schools, et al.
               MCAD 21BEM01943/EEOC 16C-2022-00020 with no intent to return to open session.


Chairperson    Sarah Gold

Posted by      Lisa Dimier
Date           10/19/2021
Grade 1 - 3 Schedule Update
Office of Teaching and Learning


Priorities that guided the development of the new schedule:


❖    Common Planning Time for Teachers
❖    WIN BLOCK - Response to Intervention
❖    Teaching with Fidelity - Concentrated blocks for ELA and Math
❖    Exposure to both Social Studies and Science standards at every grade level
❖    Aligned Staffing Support
❖    SEL and Culturally Responsive teaching and learning
Grade 1 - 3 Schedule Update
Office of Teaching and Learning

Committee sought feedback from Stakeholders
Strengths:                                                        Challenges:
*Common Planning Time                                             *Clarity of how to best use the WIN Block
*Consistency of daily schedule                                    *Length of Allied Arts (55 minutes)
*Access to Support Staff                                          * Limited Transition Time
*Aligned Approach to Services                                     *Health Block
* Opportunities for principals to support teaching and learning
                                                                  * Time for Social Studies and Science
* See potential of WIN block
Grade 1 - 3 Schedule Update
Office of Teaching and Learning


Recommended Changes:


❖    Health block will be eliminated and become:
     ➢    Glover: Additional rotating allied arts block (music, art, library, PE) * Starting Friday, 10/27
     ➢    Brown: Additional PE per week * Starting Monday, 12/6



❖    An additional allied arts block will be added for each grade level ONCE a week
     in the morning to ensure one block of district developed common planning. *
     This restores the 6th specialist block per week.
Grade 1 - 3 Schedule Update
Office of Teaching and Learning

Teaching the Massachusetts Frameworks

Morning Meeting: 15 Minutes

ELA: 90 Minutes

Math: 90 Minutes

Social Studies and Science: 45 Minutes

WIN BLOCK: 30 Minutes

Allied Arts: 45 Minutes

Amount of Instructional Minutes to Meet Massachusetts Frameworks = 315 or 5.25 hours

Next Steps
Planning for Success Update
Office of Teaching and Learning

                    Strategic Objective for Teaching and Learning

Fully align teaching and learning Prek -12, with our multi-tiered system of supports
(MTSS) framework to censure all students meet or exceed academic and Social Emotional
learning expectations.

                                       Timeline
September: Establish Working Group
Building Leaders - Teachers - Special Education - Student Support
October: Held ﬁrst meeting - Reviewed and prioritized the development of
strategic initiatives
To:   Dr. John Buckey, Superintendent of Schools

From: Dr. Paula Donnelly, Interim Director of Student Services

Date: October 15, 2021

Re:   Preschool Staff Increase request


The Department of Student Services has received a significant number of referrals for special
education services for students ages 3-5 over the last several weeks. Based on information
gathered from parents, current service providers, and available student information, we will need to
open an additional preschool classroom at the Lucretia & Joseph Brown school. We anticipate
needing a 1.0 FTE Special Education teacher and two (2) support staff. While not all evaluations
have been completed, we project that these students will require a sub-separate, ABA-based
classroom setting.

As you know, school districts are required by law to ensure that developmentally appropriate Early
Childhood Special Education programs and services are available and to ensure that all children
with disabilities receive a free and appropriate public education.

Assistant Superintendent Cresta and I have been in communication regarding this need. Thank you
both for your continued help and support in providing services to some of our most vulnerable
students.
 Memo To:       MPS School Committee

 From:          John J. Buckey

 Re:            Request to change substitute teacher daily pay rate II-B-1, II-E-1

 Date:          October 15, 2021




Currently, we pay a rate of $80 a day for a substitute teacher. According to a recent

survey of fourteen North Shore Districts, Marblehead was the thirteenth lowest. I am

recommending we increase the amount we pay a substitute teacher to $110. This

would make Marblehead the highest of those surveyed. Assistant Superintendent for

Finance and Operations, Michelle Cresta, estimates this rate change would realize an

annual budget cost of approximately $60,000. As we are already two months into the

academic year, that amount would be prorated for FY22.

Almost every day we have internal staff covering for teachers who are absent. The

ability to maintain asking our educators to do their jobs and cover for colleagues is not

sustainable. This, too, has budgetary implications as certain classifications of staff

receive additional compensation for this coverage.

In a fiercely competitive labor market in all sectors, I feel that making this change and at

this time positions the District well to attract and/or retain a better pool of substitute

teachers.
                                                                             Business Office
                                                                             9 Widger Road,
               MARBLEHEAD                                                    Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                             phone: 781.639.3140
               PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                                fax: 781.639.3149




                                       MEMORANDUM


TO:            Marblehead School Committee
FROM:          Michelle Cresta
DATE:          October 19, 2021
RE:            Schedule of Bills for Approval


Included in this packet is the following Schedules of Bills for your consideration. The schedules
and invoices have been uploaded to the shared drive and the required signatures have been
obtained for each schedule.


                                  Schedule          Amount
                                   21406        $     304,814.63
                                   21417        $      75,863.67
                                   21424        $      29,760.44
                                   21425        $       8,814.00
                                   21432        $     141,727.81
                                   21449        $      32,875.62

                                  TOTAL         $      593,856.17



Suggested Motion:
Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $593,856.17.
                                   DEI statement

Marblehead Public Schools is committed to sustaining an inclusive environment that
fosters belonging and acceptance. We apply an equitable, culturally relevant lens to
students' social, emotional, physical, and academic development. MPS sees the power of
diversity. We support proactive allies. We respect and affirm the unique identities of all
people across dis/ability, ethnicity, gender identity/expression, language, nationality,
sexuality, socioeconomic status, race, and religion. Through holistic practices, we
cultivate awareness and agency to grow conscience-minded, empathetic citizens.

MPS is committed to an introspective process. We provide ongoing opportunities for
learning, reﬂection, and sharing with all stakeholders.
                                                                                               File: IJOC

                                        SCHOOL VOLUNTEERS


It is the policy of the School Committee to encourage volunteer efforts in the schools. Parents/guardians,
business representatives, senior citizens, and other community volunteers are recognized as important
sources of support and expertise to enhance the instructional program and serve as vital communication
links with the community. The volunteer program will be coordinated in cooperation with building
administrators. and may include background checks and the signing of confidentiality agreements as
necessary.


It is a privilege, not a right, to volunteer. All volunteers will comply with the following:
       · Volunteers are present to serve all students
       · Volunteers shall abide by confidentiality principles and will not repeat information about
       students.
       · Volunteers work under the supervision and authority of staff members.
       · Staff members are responsible for managing a class and students.
       · At no time will a volunteer engage in any form of discipline.
       · Volunteers who observe and learn of anything that concerns them regarding a student-school
       matter will bring these concerns to the attention of the classroom teacher or school principal
       immediately.
       · Volunteers will comply with CORI registration and background checks as well as school
       building sign-in, safety, and other required procedures.
CROSS REF.: ADDA, Background Checks
Marblehead Public Schools Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                           File: IJOB


                       COMMUNITY RESOURCE PERSONS/ SPEAKERS


Community Human resources are those individuals or groups who are invited into the schools to present
supplementary information and ideas to the classroom course of study. These experiences afford
students the opportunity to benefit from community viewpoints. Care should be taken in selecting these
speakers so that they are individuals who respect diversity in thinking and varying views and who are
not attempting to inappropriately influence points of view.


CROSS REF.: ADDA, Background Checks

SOURCE: MASC/Marblehead
Marblehead Public Schools Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                              File: IJNDD


                                    POLICY ON SOCIAL MEDIA

The Superintendent and the School Principals will annually remind staff members and orient new staff
members concerning the importance of maintaining proper decorum in the on-line, digital world as well
as in person. Employees must conduct themselves in ways that do not distract from or disrupt the
educational process. The orientation and reminders will give special emphasis to:
       1) Improper fraternization with students using social media or other electronic means.
            a. Teachers may not friend or follow current students on social media.
            b. All electronic contacts with students should be through the district's computer and
            telephone system, except emergency situations.
            c. Team, class, or student organization pages, accounts, or groups will be created only in
            conjunction with the coach or faculty advisor. All groups must include the appropriate
            administrator as a member. Access to the page will remain with the coach or faculty advisor.
            d. All contact and messages by coaches and faculty advisors with team members shall be
            sent to all team members, except for messages concerning medical or academic privacy
            matters, in which case the messages will be copied to the appropriate administrator.
            e. Teachers will not give out their private cell phone or home phone numbers without prior
            approval of the district.
            f. Inappropriate contact via phone or electronic device is prohibited.
       2) Inappropriateness of posting items with sexual content
       3) Inappropriateness of posting items exhibiting or advocating use of drugs and alcohol
       4) Examples of inappropriate behavior from other districts, as behavior to avoid
       5) Monitoring and penalties for improper use of district computers and technology
       6) The possibility of penalties, including dismissal from employment, for failure to exercise good
       judgment in on-line conduct.
The Superintendent or designees will periodically conduct internet searches to see if teachers have posted
inappropriate materials on-line. When inappropriate use of computers and websites is discovered, the
School Principals and Superintendent will promptly bring that inappropriate use to the attention of the
staff member and may consider and apply disciplinary action up to and including termination.
SOURCE: MASC October 2016
                              MARBLEHEAD PUBLIC SCHOOLS
                          SOCIAL NETWORKING POLICY FOR STAFF



          1. Acceptable Use Policy:
This policy is adopted in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Marblehead Public Schools’
(“MPS”) Acceptable Use Policy, which governs use of the school district's technological resources. This
policy applies to the use by MPS staff of social networking sites/social media, regardless of whether
such use involves the district’s technological resources or a staff member’s personal resources. All
activities, which are prohibited by the Acceptable Use Policy, are also prohibited by this policy, and
those prohibitions are incorporated by reference herein.

         2. General Concerns
The Marblehead Public Schools recognize the proliferation of online conversation between staff
members and students. However, due to the nature of social networking sites, there exists a risk, without
care and planning, that the lines between one's professional life and personal life will be blurred. Our
staff should always be mindful of how they present themselves to the world, online and otherwise.

Should a staff member engage in any electronic communication with students, the school district is
concerned, and the staff member should be concerned, that such activities have the potential to
undermine the staff member’s authority to maintain discipline and to remain truly objective with his/ her
students. All activities in which a staff member uses social networking sites/social media must be
undertaken in a way that minimizes this potential.

         3. Expectations of Staff
With these concerns in mind, this Social Networking Policy sets MPS’s expectations for staff members’
use of social networks/social media, including but not limited to, Facebook, Linked-in, Twitter, personal
email accounts, text message features of cell phones, use of blogs, and other electronic or
technologically based communication systems.

    1. Establishing a Social Network Account: Before endeavoring to establish any social networking
       account, staff members should familiarize themselves with the features of any account they
       choose to use. Staff members must:

           a. Take specific steps to "privatize" the information placed online.

            b. Assume responsibility if any information deemed “private” becomes “public.”


                                                                                                   1 of 4
As of 10/18/18 this policy remains to be reviewed.
                                                                                               File: IJNDD

           c. Be aware of the fact that any information shared privately with an individual could be re
               distributed without explicit consent

           d. Understand that the same principles, which are applied to face-to-face communication,
               should be applied to online conversation.

           e. Remember that nothing posted online is ever truly "private."


   2. Separating Professional and Personal Identity: The school district expects staff members to
      maintain a clear separation between their professional and personal lives. MPS staff members are
      strongly discouraged from using personal social networking accounts to communicate with
      parents and/or students for school-related/education-related communications. If choosing to
      utilize social media for school related purposes, staff members must create separate “professional
      use only” social networking accounts for use with students and their parents/guardians. In
      practice, this means:

           a. Establish a professional social network identity that is separate from a "personal" identity.

           b. Use a professional social network identity and account exclusively for communication
              with students on matters directly related to school/education matters. No school/education
              matters shall be the subject of communication on private social network accounts, unless
              the circumstances constitute an emergency involving the safety or welfare of another.

           c. The "friends" associated with such a professional social network account should only be
               members of the educational community, such as administrators, teachers, students, and
               parents/guardians of such students.

             d. Deny “friend” requests from individuals who do not fit into any of these categories.


   3. Student Privacy and Confidential Information: Staff members will adhere at all times to
      student privacy rights and employee privacy rights to have their “education/student record”,
      personal, personnel and medical information kept confidential. In practice, this means:

           a. Information that is protected by law from disclosure to third parties will not be
              communicated online in a way that exposes such information to retrieval by those third
              parties.

                                                                                                       2 of 4
As of 10/18/18 this policy remains to be reviewed.
                                                                                            File: IJNDD

           b. Confidential student information may not be posted on the "wall," the "information"
              section, or through any part of that social network account that would be accessible to
              any other social network "friends" associated with that account.

           c. Private communication with a student through the educational social network account shall
               be conveyed only through the private email/message feature of the educational social
               network, so that only the student may view the message and respond to it.


   4. Archiving Communication: Staff members should communicate with students and parents on
      school/educational matters only. In most instances, it is expected that staff members will use the
      district’s email account for all school/education business keeping in mind that:

           a. Use of one's personal email account to discuss school/education information with students
               and parents is prohibited unless the circumstances involve an emergency, as referred to in
               paragraph 2b, above.

           b. A staff member’s use of his/her personal email account as opposed to an MPS account
              does not shield the information in such account from the provisions of the public records
              law or from discovery in litigation. It only prevents the archiving of such messages
              through the MPS automatic email archiving system, preventing staff members from
              taking advantage of the archiving system.

           c. Any document, whether in tangible or electronic form, which is created or received by a
               public employee in his or her capacity as such, is subject to retention and perhaps
               disclosure under the public records law.

           d. No matter what medium of communication a staff member selects, he/she must adhere to
               appropriate professional/student boundaries and document communications when
               appropriate. Staff members are a student’s role model, not his or her “friend”, and must
               act accordingly in the use of social networking sites/social media. All communications
               between a staff member and a student or his/her parents/guardians are subject to
               monitoring by the MPS.

           e. Staff members remain mandated reporters. If a staff member receives information from a
               student or from anyone else which indicates that the student at risk, is abused, is
               neglected or is being harmed, the staff member is required by law to report such neglect
               or harm to the Department of Children and Family Services. The staff member must
               report his/her concerns to the building principal or designee as soon as possible.

                                                                                                   3 of 4
As of 10/18/18 this policy remains to be reviewed.
                                                                                               File: IJNDD

   5. Free Speech Expectations: This policy is not intended to infringe upon a staff member’s right to
       speak publicly on matters of public concern, or to communicate with fellow members of their
       union on workplace issues, so long as such communication adheres to the standards for
       protection established by the United States Supreme Court, including but not limited to
       appropriate time, place and manner restrictions and does not interfere with the performance of
       job duties or disrupt the MPS’s ability to operate the school district and educate students.

           a. Although a staff member may be communicating regarding MPS matters or general
              education/school matters using his/her personal social networking account, the staff
              member must keep in mind that readers may assume that he/she is speaking as an
              employee of the school district and not as a private citizen and should communicate to the
              recipient that the views expressed are the personal views of the staff member.

           b. Such restrictions are intended to preserve student confidentiality, maintain the staff
              member’s status as an educator who should command and receive the respect of students,
              and be able to maintain order and discipline in his/her classroom.


   6. Code of Conduct: Any conduct, whether online or not, that violates this policy, that reflects
      poorly upon the MPS, or that consists of inappropriate behavior may expose a staff member to
      discipline up to and including discharge.


Disclaimer: References to various social networks are not included to limit application of this policy to
use of just those sites or programs. Given the rapid pace of technological change it is not possible to
identify all proprietary or commonly named or identified means of such communications.



Legal Ref: M.G.L. Chapter 71 Section 42:
A teacher with professional teacher status, pursuant to section forty-one, shall not be dismissed except
for inefficiency, incompetency, incapacity, conduct unbecoming a teacher, insubordination or failure on
the part of the teacher to satisfy teacher performance standards developed pursuant to section thirty-eight
of this chapter or other just cause.



Approved 6/19/2014

                                                                                                     4 of 4
As of 10/18/18 this policy remains to be reviewed.
