                                                                                       Business Office
                                                                                       9 Widger Road,
                 MARBLEHEAD                                                            Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                                       phone: 781.639.3140
                 PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                                        fax: 781.639.3149




                                             MEMORANDUM

TO:              Marblehead School Committee
FROM:            Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent of Finance & Operations
DATE:            October 22, 2021
RE:              Surplus Goods – Vision Testing Equipment


A new protocol regarding the testing of vision of students will become effective September 1, 2022. A
copy of the memo detailing these changes is attached. The Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Department
of Public Health (MDPH) is recommending that vision testing machines are discontinued for all age
groups. We currently own six (6) Optec 2000 Vision Tester Machines. Due to this recommendation,
these units will no longer be utilized. The current estimated value of the machines ranges from $120 -
$250 each. It is hopeful that these items will be able to disposed of with the possibility of being able to
recoup a portion of the original cost.


It is being requested that School Committee take a vote to declare these above mentioned items as surplus
goods. The recommended motion is as follows:


        Motion to declare six (6) Optec 2000 Vision Tester Machines as surplus goods.
  4. Near vision screening to be conducted annually for children beginning the year of school
     entry through Grade 3 (ages 3 through 9 years): Near vision screening is conducted at 16".
     Acceptable age-appropriate charts are LEA SYMBOLS ® and Sloan Letters.

  5. Distance visual acuity for public preschool children (ages 3, 4, and 5 years): The "EyE
     Check" screening, performed at a 5-foot distance, is approved as an additional option for use in
     children ages 3, 4, and 5 years. All other approved distance visual acuity screenings are
     performed at 10 feet.

  6. Stereoacuity screening to use the "Pass 1" test, and will be used for children ages 5
     years through 9 years only (K through Grade 3). The Random Dot E is discontinued.


  7. Instrument-based screening devices: PlusOptix, Retinomax or Spot ™ , or any other
     MDPH-approved instrument-based screening devices, are for use in children ages 3, 4 and 5
     years only. The age limitations for instrument-based vision screening may be adjusted as
     additional research data becomes available. Children ages 6 years and older who cannot
     participate in approved letter or symbol visual acuity screening are to be referred for a
     comprehensive eye exam by an eye doctor who is experienced in treating children.
     Note: Distance visual acuity screening and stereoacuity screening is not required when using
     the instrument-based screening protocol in children ages 3, 4 and 5 years. However, near visual
     acuity screening must still be conducted when using instrument-based screening.

  8. Vision Testing Machines are discontinued: MDPH no longer recommends, for any age
     group, the use of vision testing machines (such as Optec, Titmus, Keystone View). Vision
     testing machines do not have reliable evidence-basis. Additionally, a child's behavior that may
     indicate a vision problem, such as squinting, is hidden from the screener using this method.


FURTHER RECOMMENDATIONS FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH:

  1. English language learners: Instrument-based screening for children ages 3, 4 and 5-years,
     and/or matching lap cards with visual acuity charts can be used when testing the vision of
     children who are non-English proficient.
  2. A comprehensive eye exam by an eye doctor experienced in treating children should be
     sought in the following cases:

      a. Children unable to complete, or who refuse to complete a vision screening, if unable to
         be re-screened in a timely manner.
      b. Children with complex or multiple disabilities (Special Health Care Needs) whose
         disability or behavior prevents them from performing a standard screening.
      c. Children not reaching educational milestones or who are being considered for, or who
         receive, additional educational support such as an Individualized Education Plan (IEP), even
         if the child has passed a recent vision screening.




                                                                                                        4
                 MARBLEHEAD                                                   Office of the Superintendent
                                                                              Dr. John J. Buckey
                 PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                               9 Widger Road,
                                                                              Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                              phone: 781.639.3140 x10114
                                                                              fax: 781.639.3149



Memo To:         Marblehead School Committee

From:            Dr. John J. Buckey

Re:              District Retirements

Date:            June 16, 2022


  ●     Brian Crowley - Mr. Crowley started his teaching career at MHS in 1999 as a building
        substitute and soon moved into a full-time teaching position in Social Studies. Mr.
        Crowley's passion for teaching history is well known and comes to life during his classes.
        To the faculty, Mr. Crowley is a great colleague, always willing to help others and being
        there as a friend. A big part of Mr. Crowley's time at MHS was his involvement with both
        indoor and outdoor track teams. Mr. Crowley was a very successful track coach, his
        teams were well-coached and known for their determination. We will miss Mr. Crowley.

  ●     Lesley Dexter- Lesley has been with Marblehead Schools providing tutoring since 2006.
        Lesley has supported almost every class in the building during her time at Vets. Lesley
        puts her students’ needs first and is dedicated to their academic success. She is a
        wonderful, supportive colleague who is always willing to help. Lesley will be greatly
        missed by both students and staff.

  ●     Ellen Drummond - Ellen has been with the Marblehead Schools since 2000. She first
        was a reading tutor then was hired as a First Grade Teacher at the Gerry School, then
        moved to Coffin, and finally to Brown. Ellen is a highly adept teacher of the language
        arts, and used her experience with the Orton-Gillingham program to push our ELA first
        grade instruction by working with and mentoring partner teachers to develop pooled
        small group instruction in the first grade. Her dedication to the art of teaching and her
        support of colleagues will be missed!

  ●     Richard Kelleher - Richard started with Marblehead Schools in 1994 as the Director of
        Dining Services. At that time he worked as a contractor through Chartwells. In 2000,
        Richard became a Marblehead employee as our Food Service Director. After 4 years
        Richard moved onto what he thought was a greener pasture. And after 6 years Richard
        returned to the same position which is now retiring from. Richard has been a wonderful
        dedicated director and has always managed our food service operations with a passion
        for feeding our students. Richard was invaluable in orchestrating grab and go meal
        service throughout our closures during the pandemic. Richard will truly be missed.

  ●     Glenn Long - Glenn was a key component of the successes we have had at
        Marblehead Veterans Middle School for so many years. Joining MPS in 1996, for the
        past 26 years Glenn has ensured that our students had the cleanest buildings as
        possible. However, Glenn was so much more than the lead custodian at Vets…he was
             MARBLEHEAD                                                    Office of the Superintendent
                                                                           Dr. John J. Buckey
             PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                                9 Widger Road,
                                                                           Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                           phone: 781.639.3140 x10114
                                                                           fax: 781.639.3149



    a frequent server of lunches, the tech master extraordinaire of the Performing Arts
    Center, and a friend to everyone he worked with! Glenn was always eager and happy to
    help anyone who asked. There’s not a single person who has ever heard Glenn say,
    “No.” His knowledge of the Vets was unmatched by anybody, and showed tremendous
    pride in his school. He and his crew were always able to meet the needs of the teachers,
    staff, and students to provide us with a safe and supportive environment for learning.
    Glenn will truly be truly missed.

●   JoAnne LeBlanc JoAnne has been a key member of the staff at Gerry, where she
    started in 2004, and through the moves to Lower Bell, Eveleth, and finally to Brown
    School. In each of these places she has been instrumental as School Secretary to keep
    things running smoothly, at each location, where she often did the duties of a support
    person, nurse, and principal–quite often at the same time! . Her always positive and
    supportive demeanor will be missed!

●   Sue Lojko - Sue has been in Marblehead for a relatively short time but her impact has
    been outsized. She is an invaluable asset to the Student Services Department, from her
    exceptional organizational skills, her ability to create structure, and her ease in keeping
    all of us in line. Sue’s diligence, energy, compassion, and kindness will be deeply felt
    and missed greatly.

●   Patricia Pittore- Before teaching Patty was in museum education. She began teaching
    in Ipswich and transferred to Marblehead in 2008. She began teaching second grade at
    the Coffin School. While at Coffin, she wrote and received a grant to initiate the outside
    classroom/garden. Patty transferred to Glover last year as a second grade teacher. She
    has a deep commitment to education and will be exploring possibilities in education
    when she retires.

●   Mary Valle - Mary joined Marblehead Schools in 2006 in the position of Bookkeeper.
    Mary was a consistent figure in the Business Office throughout many changes and
    administrations. Mary approached everyday with a positive attitude and was a true
    pleasure to work with.

●   Enid Wood - Edi (Eddie) joined Marblehead Schools in 2001. Edi is tremendously kind
    and generous. This comes across in her daily interactions with the students and staff.
    She was always helpful in any task that had to be accomplished. It was not surprising
    that learned the name of every student in the building in which she worked throughout
    the years. Edi will truly be missed.
Stipend Proposals
    June 2, 2022
APPENDIX B: COACHING STIPENDS

Remove the following text:

Coaching and Extra Curricular Stipends {Appendix Band Appendix C)

The parties will establish a joint committee to review the stipends and the process for adding new stipends and removing stipends in Appendix B and Appendix C
and to make recommendations to the School Committee and to the MEA on or before June 15, 2022. Such joint committee shall have up to four members
appointed by the Superintendent and up to four members appointed by the MEA President. Recommended changes are subject to approval by the School
Committee and ratification by the MEA.

Add
   •   Beginning on the first day of the 2023-2024 school year, coaching stipend schedules will follow the Unit A COLA. The Unit A COLA will be
       applied to all coaching stipend schedules with each successive contract moving forward.

II. CATEGORIZED COACHING POSITIONS

   •   Rename category 6 as Middle School beginning July 1, 2022
   •   Remove the following: Equipment Manager (now hourly stipend), Assistant XC and Track (no longer in use)
   •   Move Middle School Coordinator to Category 6
   •   Replace current categorized positions with the following:
III. STIPEND SCHEDULES
      • Replace current stipend schedules with the following:
APPENDIX C: EXTRACURRICULAR STIPENDS

Remove the following text:

Coaching and Extra Curricular Stipends {Appendix Band Appendix C)

The parties will establish a joint committee to review the stipends and the process for adding new stipends and removing stipends in Appendix B and
Appendix C and to make recommendations to the School Committee and to the MEA on or before June 15, 2022. Such joint committee shall have up
to four members appointed by the Superintendent and up to four members appointed by the MEA President. Recommended changes are subject to
approval by the School Committee and ratification by the MEA.

Add
   •   Beginning on the first day of the 2023-2024 school year, extracurricular stipend schedules will follow the Unit A COLA. The Unit A COLA will
       be applied to all extracurricular stipend schedules with each successive contract moving forward.

II. CATEGORIZED EXTRACURRICULAR POSITIONS

It is understood that the categorized extracurricular positions do not necessarily exist for all clubs or all schools.

   •   Eliminate section III EXTRACURRICULAR STIPEND SCHEDULE
   •   Rename to Categorized Extracurricular Positions and Stipend Schedules
   •   Eliminate category 5 beginning July 1, 2022
   •   Replace current categorized positions with the following:
APPENDIX 0: TEACHER MENTORS AND MENTOR COORDINATOR

3.MENTOR STIPEND

Add
   •   Beginning on the first day of the 2023-2024 school year, mentors and the mentor coordinator stipend schedules will follow the Unit A COLA.
       The Unit A COLA will be applied to all mentors and the mentor coordinator stipend schedules with each successive contract moving forward.
   •   Replace current stipend schedules with the following:




6. MENTOR COORDINATOR STIPEND

   •   Replace current stipend schedules with the following:
                                                                             Business Office
                                                                             9 Widger Road,
               MARBLEHEAD                                                    Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                             phone: 781.639.3140
               PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                                fax: 781.639.3149




                                       MEMORANDUM

TO:            Marblehead School Committee
FROM:          Michelle Cresta
DATE:          June 15, 2022
RE:            Schedule of Bills for Approval


Included in this packet is the following Schedules of Bills for your consideration. The schedules
and invoices have been uploaded to the shared drive and the required signatures have been
obtained for each schedule.

                                 Schedule           Amount
                                  22218         $     202,799.87
                                  22222         $      11,193.00
                                  22231         $     166,290.86
                                  22234         $      65,312.61
                                  22238         $      92,233.34
                                  22239         $       5,408.92
                                  22251         $       4,839.09
                                  22255         $     165,372.02
                                  22265         $       1,881.33
                                  22266         $      21,607.37
                                  22277         $      19,374.50
                                  22280         $      12,755.97

                                  TOTAL         $      769,068.88



Suggested Motion:
Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $769,068.88.
                                                                                                  File: FFA

                                              MEMORIALS


The School Committee recognizes that the death of a student, member of the staff, or prominent
community member is deeply felt by the school community. As places designed primarily to support
learning, school sites should not serve as the main venue for permanent memorials.

Permanent memorials within the schools shall be limited in form to perpetual awards or scholarships.


As of this date, the policy for memorials in the event of a death may be permanent in nature but should
abide by these rules:

           ● No picture will be attached to the memorial
           ● Information on the nameplate on the memorial shall be limited to "Donated by
             _______________________ in Memory of __________________and the date."
           ● The memorial must serve a useful purpose for current students
           ● No hanging plaques or pictures of a permanent nature within school facilities.

All requests should be addressed to the administrator of the building who, in consultation with the
Superintendent, will determine appropriateness. Gifts, donations, and bequests can be made to the
district. Shrubs, trees and plantings are discouraged in school facilities as are stones and other permanent
memorials. Memorials in the form of scholarships, purchase of library books, educational CD-ROMS,
school supplies and equipment, as well as funds designated for a particular school activity or department
are deemed appropriate.

Any permanent memorials in existence before the adoption of this policy can only be removed by a vote
of the School Committee.




SOURCE: MASC August 2016

Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
