                                                                             Business Office
                                                                             9 Widger Road,
               MARBLEHEAD                                                    Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                             phone: 781.639.3140
               PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                                fax: 781.639.3149




                                       MEMORANDUM

TO:            Marblehead School Committee
FROM:          Michelle Cresta
DATE:          June 22, 2022
RE:            Schedule of Bills for Approval


Included in this packet is the following Schedules of Bills for your consideration. The schedules
and invoices have been uploaded to the shared drive and the required signatures have been
obtained for each schedule.

                                 Schedule            Amount
                                  22263         $       4,379.25

                                  TOTAL         $         4,379.25



Suggested Motion:
Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $4,379.25.
                                                                                Business Office
                                                                                9 Widger Road
               MARBLEHEAD                                                       Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                                phone: 781.639.3140
               PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                                   fax: 781.639.3149




 TO:            Marblehead School Committee
 FROM:          Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent for Finance & Operations
 DATE:          June 22, 2022
 RE:            Service and Maintenance Contracts 2022


This is the time of year that we prepare our facilities service and maintenance contracts for the upcoming
school year. Many of our contracts are held jointly with the Town. The Select Board will also need to vote to
award the contracts that cover both town and school facilities. The town and school are billed separately for
the respective portion of the joint contract costs.

We accepted bids for various contracts earlier this week. We are prepared to award two contracts at this time.
The lowest qualified bidders for Elevator Maintenance and On-call Plumbing are being recommended to be
awarded the contracts. The bid submissions for roofing repairs will require more time to determine the lowest
cost qualified bidder and will be brought to you at a future date. A couple of the contracts will either be
extended or be placed back out to bid as we did not receive any responses.

I am recommending that the School Committee/Select Board award the following contracts for the term of
one year.

1. The low bid for the Elevator Maintenance Contract was received from Embree and White, Inc. doing
   business as Embree Elevator of Woburn, MA in the amount of $69,800. This contract will include both
   the town and school buildings. This contractor has held this contract for the past two years.

2. The low bid for the On Call Plumbing Contract was received from E. Amanti and Sons, Inc. of Salem,
   MA in the amount of $57,820. This contract will include both the town and school facilities. This
   contractor has not previously held this contract in recent years, but has worked on the Lucretia and Joseph
   Brown School Building project and comes highly recommended from other area school districts and
   municipalities.

The recommended motions are as follows:

       1. Motion to award a one-year contract for Elevator Maintenance to Embree and White, Inc. doing
          business as Embree Elevator in the amount of $69,800 and to authorize the Chair to sign the
          contract on behalf of the Committee.

       2. Motion to award a one-year contract for on-Call Plumbing Services to E. Amanti and Sons, Inc. in
          the amount of $57,820 and to authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Committee.

If you should have any questions, please feel free to contact me at any time
                                                                                                  File: FFA

                                              MEMORIALS


The School Committee recognizes that the death of a student, member of the staff, or prominent
community member is deeply felt by the school community. As places designed primarily to support
learning, school sites should not serve as the main venue for permanent memorials.

Permanent memorials within the schools shall be limited in form to perpetual awards or scholarships.


As of this date, the policy for memorials in the event of a death may be permanent in nature but should
abide by these rules:

           ● No picture will be attached to the memorial
           ● Information on the nameplate on the memorial shall be limited to "Donated by
             _______________________ in Memory of __________________and the date."
           ● The memorial must serve a useful purpose for current students
           ● No hanging plaques or pictures of a permanent nature within school facilities.

All requests should be addressed to the administrator of the building who, in consultation with the
Superintendent, will determine appropriateness. Gifts, donations, and bequests can be made to the
district. Shrubs, trees and plantings are discouraged in school facilities as are stones and other permanent
memorials. Memorials in the form of scholarships, purchase of library books, educational CD-ROMS,
school supplies and equipment, as well as funds designated for a particular school activity or department
are deemed appropriate.

Any addition or removal of a permanent memorials shall require in existence before the adoption of this
policy can only be removed by a vote of the School Committee.




SOURCE: MASC August 2016

Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
                  School committee operating protocols


  The Marblehead school committee values and views as our top priority the
  academic, social and emotional success of all students in our district. We
  agree to thoughtfully seek and support solutions that will provide the
  greatest benefit to students.

  Who we represent
 1. We represent the educational and developmental
    needs and interests of all students in the district.
    We place their interests above all others in the
    decisions we make.

  How we govern
1. We acknowledge that a school committee meeting is a
   meeting of the school committee that is held in public
   – not a public meeting.
2. We shall conduct business through a set agenda that
   should be connected to district goals. Emerging items
   shall be addressed in subsequent meetings through
   planned agenda items unless it is determined by the
   school committee chairperson that it would be
   detrimental to delay the issue until a subsequent
   meeting.
3. Requests to add items to an agenda by members shall
   be made to the superintendent or the school
   committee chairperson in accordance with the law.
4. We shall strive to make each meeting effective and
   efficient giving each member an equal opportunity to
   express their views and opinions and to relay their
   input in a concise and topic-focused manner. All
   remarks must be directed through the chair. Remarks
   must be courteous in language and deportment.
5. We shall make decisions after considering data, the
   superintendent’s recommendations, proposals, and
   suggestions. We will engage in open -minded,
   respectful debate, vote our convictions, avoid bias,
   and uphold and support the decision of the majority of
   the committee once a decision is made. We will
   explain the reasons for our votes.
6. We shall exhibit professional conduct and behavior.
7. We shall attend meetings well -prepared to discuss
   issues on the agenda and to participate in efficient
   decision-making.
8. When we are in committee we will remain in our
   committee member role throughout the meeting.
9. We shall ensure that we do not breach the open
   meeting laws by deliberating outside of duly convened
   meetings of the committee.
10.   The school committee welcomes respectful,
  thoughtful input from the public in shaping committee
  decisions. Public input at meetings may be made on
  items on the agenda, or otherwise at the discretion of
  the chairperson.
11.    We acknowledge the importance of
  subcommittees, and the superintendent agrees to
  utilize them to focus on a specific topic in ‐depth and
  to prepare for presentation, deliberation and possible
  action by the full school committee. We will agree on
  the appropriate school committee participation on
  subcommittees.
12.    School committee members will maintain
  privileged information and respect the confidentiality
  of executive session.
13.    Our actions shall be consistent with the core
  values of the district, and be consistent with our
  vision of a high class organization.
14.   School committee meetings will be guided by the
  open meeting law and roberts rules of order.
15.   The superintendent of schools and such staff as
  are needed to advise the committee shall be seated at
  the committee table.
16.   School committee members will familiarize
  themselves with and uphold all district policies.
  Specifically policies relating to governance
  (bhc,bbaa,bia,bhe,bca,bdd).

  How we treat each other
1. We shall debate the issues keeping an open mind to
   other member’s opinions and/or positions.
2. We shall work to build trust between and among
   school committee members, the superintendent and
   the administration by treating everyone with dignity
   and respect, even in times of disagreement.

  How we communicate
1. It is the school committee’s responsibility to set a
   positive tone for the district.
2. The superintendent and the school committee
   recognize the importance of proactive comm unication.
   If school committee members have questions or
   concerns, they agree to contact the superintendent
   well in advance of a meeting. They agree that there
   will be no surprises.
3. We shall channel requests for information through the
   superintendent rather than directly to district staff or
  town officials. Town officials shall channel requests
  for information through the superintendent for
  consideration by the school committee.
4. We shall provide full disclosure of information and not
   withhold information from other members.
5. We shall advocate for the public schools and public
   education as ambassadors of the school system by
   promoting support for public education and spreading
   the news of our success. We shall always strive to
   project a positive image.
6. We recognize the chairperson, or her/his designee, as
   the official spokesperson of the school committee,
   including, but not limited to, legal counsel and official
   media requests.
7. The superintendent and the school committee
   recognize the importance of working collabora tively
   with the community to improve our schools and we
   shall actively seek ways to enlist community support
   for our efforts.
8. School committee members acknowledge the
   importance of working collaboratively with town
   officials, but recognize when they attend meetings of
   other committees and boards they speak and act as
   individuals not for the committee as a whole and will
   disclose as such.
9. We will adhere to the masc social media guidelines.

  How we will improve
1. All new school committee members will attend the
   masc orientation session as soon as practicable, but
   within one year of being elected.
2. All members will be open to continued personal growth
   through participating in training opportunities in order
   to advance the work of our public schools.
3. We shall review and revise operating protocols
   annually through an annual workshop.
4. We shall develop and maintain a district new member
   orientation program.
5. We shall develop annual school committee
   performance objectives, or goals, and appraise
   progress through regular self -evaluation.

  What are our limits of authority?
1. We shall exercise leadership in vision, planning,
   policy, budgeting, evaluation of the superintendent of
   schools, and advocacy of the district, consistent with
   the law and district policies.
2. It is the superintendent’s responsibility to oversee
   personnel issues and to manage the
  Day-to-day operations of the district. It is the school
  committee’s responsibility to evaluate the
  superintendent’s effectiveness in these matters.
3. We shall recognize that authority rests only wit h the
   majority decision of the school committee and we shall
   not make any independent commitments or take any
   independent actions that may compromise the school
   committee as a whole.
4. We shall follow the chain of command (teacher,
   principal, superintendent) and direct others to do the
   same.
5. Complaints and concerns regarding personnel will be
   directed to the superintendent.
6. We shall not use our positions for personal or partisan
   gain.
7. We shall refer any important questions or concerns
   received from members of the community to the
   superintendent. The superintendent, not any school
   committee member has the authority to investigate.
   The superintendent shall provide committee members
   with his/her response. It is not the role of the school
   committee to resolve issues.

  What happens when things go wrong?
1. We shall work together to clarify and restate
   discussions in order to strive for full understanding.
2. We recognize the importance of honoring our agreed
   upon operating protocols and we agree to take
   responsibility for reminding one another when we get
   off track.
3. We shall maintain fidelity to these commitments and
   will be held accountable by our fellow school
   committee members should any of us fail to live up to
   these commitments. If a school committee member or
   superintendent violates any of the operating
   protocols, he/she will be referred to the chairperson
   or in the case of the chairperson to the vice
   chairperson.
Members of the Marblehead School Committee:

Congratulations to the recently elected School Committee members, Sarah Fox and Alison Taylor. As citizens within a
democracy, we celebrate free elections as a privilege.

We also feel compelled to face events from the past few weeks. During the campaign, Reece Dahlberg and her family were
harassed, bullied and intimidated both online and off, in ways that extended beyond the usual rough and tumble of local politics.

Unsanctioned photographs were taken of Reece, her children, and her supporters while campaigning. A previously unknown
user arrived on an independently-run Facebook page to levy relentless, mean-spirited attacks, seemingly intending to distort Ms.
Dahlberg’s message, sway the vote and intimidate dissenting voices. Embedded within the posts was woven a thread of
transphobia. Posters accused Reece and her husband of child abuse and of promoting prostitution to pay for cross sex
hormones. They charged Reece and her supporters, and even the schools, with feeding children ideas about changing their sex,
and pushing these decisions on children. When the profile’s authenticity and tactics were challenged by vocal community
members, the user and their content vanished from record.

At Village we ask students to Keep Each Other Well. At Brown we teach “Be brave, be kind, be safe, be ready to learn”. As
parents, community members and School Committee members, each of us bears responsibility to mitigate harm and hurt in our
actions and words, online and off. This is a small town. We’re neighbors, friends, co-workers, coaches and family members… but
our most important roles may be models of behavior. We have to stand up to bullies. We have to call out lies and mean-spirited
behavior. We wouldn’t allow this sort of thing to happen in our school buildings so we should not let it stand in our community.

A new term represents a fresh start. As a community, we have an opportunity to move forward in a positive direction,
with renewed commitment to fairness, kindness and tolerance.

The School Committee’s code of conduct calls for members to use courteous language and professional conduct… for their
behavior and language to be thoughtful, open-minded, positive, collaborative. For their actions are to be consistent with the core
values of the district. In the spirit of this new term, we hereby request:

    1.   That the School Committee commit to upholding anti-bullying standards set in policy, on and offline. This is not to
         suggest that any sitting member participated in or had knowledge of the recent bullying during the campaign, rather,
         that we expect each to identify and stand up to behavior of this kind, as appropriate.
    2.   That the School Committee publicly reaffirm their commitment to maintaining the strict confidentiality required of
         their roles, and in doing so, maintaining and building community trust;
    3.   That no School Committee member participates in or continues to serve as an administrator on any local
         school-related social media sites, or participate in school-related discussions on other local sites. We suggest that while
         they CAN frequent these sites, they SHOULD NOT. It is simply too difficult to avoid conflict of interest and navigate
         community discord as an elected official, appropriately separating fact from fiction and choosing when to correct
         inaccuracies and when to let them stand.

The last few weeks (in particular) were upsetting for many of us, across campaigns. Let’s move away from intimidation and
misrepresentation, instead modeling fairness and kindness in our campaigns, in the ways in which we conduct School
Committee business, and in our interpersonal relationships.

Sincerely,

     Christopher Dahlberg, Fieldbrook Rd        Linda Kelly, Clifton Ave                  Ryan Quick, Hawthorne Rd
     Reece Dahlberg, Fieldbrook Rd              Kerry Frances Bourne, Bubier Rd           Kate Thomson, Bubier Rd
     Cindy Elesinmogun, Bubier Rd               John Gilberg, Sheldon Rd                  Mark Thomson, Bubier Rd
     Stacey Faris, Pitman Rd                    Melissa Kaplowitch, Camille Terr          Sarah Luck, Pitman Rd
     Graham Faris, Pitman Rd                    Kate Lipsitz, Alden Rd                    Sarah Timm, Hawthorne Rd
     Paul Baker, Overlook Rd                    Lisa Nagel, Westminster Rd                Heather Watson, Auburndale Rd
     Beth Baron, Vassar Rd                      Julie Peach, Calthrope Rd                 Chris Watson, Auburndale Rd
     Emily Belfbecker, Ida Rd                   Renee Sidman, Village St                  Mimi Lemay, Spray Ave
     Nicole Parkman, Beach St                   Jodi Smith, Robert Rd                     Kate Whorf, Schooner Ln
     Rob Parkman, Beach St                      Vanessa Quick, Hawthorne Rd               Kathy Wilder, Waldron Ct
     Dennis Kelly, Clifton Ave                  Josh Baron, Vassar Rd
Cindy Loewen                                                               Thu, Jun 23, 5:01
                                                                              PM (15 hours
                                                                                        ago)
to Sarah, Meagan, Emily, fox.sarah, John, me

Dear Sarah and Members of the SC,

As I am not sure if this email will be seen by all this evening prior to the meeting, I still
felt that I as an active community member and stackholder, I wanted to address my
concern.

Personally and professionally, I am very concerned about what is on social media and
happening on the election of the chair and vice chair. It is my opinion that these
positions are not meant to be decided by the stackholders, rather the committee. The
stackholders vote for the members to be on the board, not the board officers. Having
letters directed to the SC and Dr Buckey calling for a specific person is like witnessing a
witch hunt against the current chair and/or an insurrection. Neither of which should be
part of the SC.

The SC is a new committee as of Tuesday nite/Wednesday morn. I implore this
committee to come together and work together, and not bring a personal agenda to the
table. I also ask you to do the best you can and get the funding for our schools
approved.

Whatever transpires this eve with the SC board, I want to say that Sarah Gold has
consistently been prepared, committed and has been a leader, even when it became
harder with covid and now without covid.
I wish to thank those who step up and take on a thankless job and I hope that this is a
good chapter of a new TEAM.

Sincerely,
Cindy Tower-Loewen
Xhazzie Kindle                                                           11:15 AM (2
                                                                             minutes
                                                                                 ago)
to Gold.sarah, fox.sarah, taylor.meagan, buckey.john, taylor.alison, barron.emily, schoolcommittee


Dr. Buckey and the Marblehead Public School Committee,

One of the hallmarks of a good leader is knowing when it is time to step back and give
someone else the opportunity to lead; to give them a chance to show their quality.

At tonight’s school committee meeting you will be asked to select a chair and I urge
Sarah Gold to step back and for you to select Sarah Fox.

As was evidenced by the show of support Sarah Fox received in Tuesday’s election,
Sarah Fox has the trust and respect of our community. Having Sarah Fox as the chair
will give stakeholders a much needed boost of confidence in the school committee at a
time when confidence has been lacking.

This is also the ideal time for Sarah Fox to take the reins. She is just beginning a three
year term while the current chair is ending one. Having a past chair available to mentor
and coach a new one will be of benefit to the committee as a whole.

I look forward to seeing this matter discussed at tonight’s meeting and I ask that my
letter be entered into public record.

Sincerely,

Xhazzie and Harry Kindle
On Friday, June 17, 2022, 11:32:56 AM EDT, Andrew Kramer <akramer_2@yahoo.com>
wrote:


Dear Marblehead School Committee

I am emailing you to express my profound disappointment on two different issues: 1) the treatment of
Sarah Fox by other members of the School Committee; and 2) a May 25th tweet from Sarah Gold, chair
of the Marblehead School Committee
(https://twitter.com/marbleheadSgold/status/1529395091399393280?s=20&t=Bb9l7DnSiyy7gGIGnvlRpA)
.

As it relates to the treatment of Ms. Fox, it has been appalling to see the thinly veiled contempt that the
chair and other members of the committee have for Ms. Fox. While I definitely do not agree with Ms. Fox
on certain issues, she brings an important perspective to any issue she elects to participate on. While her
comments almost always reflect far greater diligence than most others on the Committee, her views are
generally dismissed. It is clear that the four other members of the committee do not like her and that
personal grievances have relegated Ms. Fox to sub-committees that will not benefit as much from her
experience, acumen and interests. While liking somebody personally is not a requirement to serve on any
elected board, treating your colleagues with respect should be. The fact that the chair of the committee
allowed a citizen to publicly share personal information about Ms. Fox and her children was
unacceptable. In responding to this matter at the next school committee, the chair stated that the
committee "would strive to do better." Doing better would be for each member of the Committee who sat
silently while Ms. Fox was smeared to publicly apologize for allowing such commentary to occur in the
first place.

In addition, I am bothered by Ms. Gold's tweet on May 25th. The cartoon itself is divisive and hurtful by
indicating that those parents who have advocated for mask optionality do not understand the mental or
physical trauma created by senseless gun violence in our schools nationwide (or the drills used to
prepare for such violence) or that those parents who advocated for the elimination of a mask mandate
care more about that issue than they do about school shootings (or the psychological impact of school
shooting drills). These perspectives are not mutually exclusive. As a parent, I certainly understand the
impact that active shooter drills have on our children while also acknowledging that mandating masks in
schools has greatly impacted the learning and socio-emotional development of children locally and
nationwide. I do not understand why the Chair opted to use that cartoon or to caption it with "Make It
Stop." Does Ms. Gold want to end gun violence (that makes sense), school shooter drills (only if gun
violence ends does this message have merit) or the advocacy of parents on topics like masks or all of the
above? An explanation from Ms. Gold would be appreciated as well as whether each of you as active
members of the School Committee agree with the message in the cartoon or the entirety of the tweet
itself.

Thank you,

Andrew Kramer
7 Clifton Avenue
Marblehead, MA 01945
MEMORANDUM


Date:           6.23.22

                 Marblehead School Committee
 To:             Chairman Gold, Superintendent Buckey, School Committee members

From:           Catherine R. Martin, RLA
                29 W. Shore Drive
                Marblehead, MA 01945

Re: Election of School Committee Chair

Dear Dr. Buckey, Members of SC, New Member: Alison Taylor (please fwd to or place in the
dropbox).

Every year at the league of women voters, the moderator says, Elections have consequences.
This week's election had two outcomes, a no vote for a much-needed override and the re-election
of Sarah Fox. Sarah was the top vote-getter of all individuals running on Tuesday.
It is time for this committee to recognize her contributions and the leadership she brings and
elect her the chair.
While number 2 failed, number 1 passed, bringing together many years of Sarah's work as the
chair of the facilities sub-committee. The year Sarah was on the budget committee, she successfully
negotiated a pre-payment of our special education tuition to ease our budget going into the
pandemic year. Sarah was also a building committee member who worked non-stop to get that
building approved, funded, and built on time and budget. Sarah brought understanding and
explanations to the rest of the board regarding pool testing and why it not only didn't need to
cost 50k, but it could facilitate getting our students back in the classroom. Sarah has pushed for a
five-year strategic plan and has worked hard to do more than just the starting point of planning
for success.


Sarah has weathered personal attacks on her family; when Josh Barron spoke about her children's
accommodations, it took no more than 5 minutes to go around on social media to see the people
behind the cold, calculated attack on her family.
The current chair allowed this attack to happen, and while I don't believe you should believe
everything you see on social media, the connections between Barron, Gold, and the losing
candidate were clear. The game backfired and cost you an override.
Next year is a critical year for our schools. We desperately need to fund our schools in a student-
focused way that relies on the advice of our building-level leaders, guidance, and special education
support staff.
Marblehead School Committee
23 June 2022
page 2


Sarah can help get us there as chair. It is time to put your pettiness aside and elect Sarah Fox to
the position she has rightfully earned.
Please vote Sarah Fox, Chair of the School Committee.

Please enter this letter into correspondence.

Thank you,
Catherine Martin

Thank You,

Catherine Martin, RLA
