AMENDED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN
THE MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE
AND
DR. JOHN BUCKEY

This Amended Employment Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “this AGREEMENT”) is made
between the Marblehead School Committee (hereinafter referred to as “the Committee”) and John
Buckey (hereinafter referred to as “the Superintendent” or “Dr. Buckey”). This AGREEMENT
will be effective as of July 1, 2021. For mutual consideration expressed herein, the parties agree as
follows:

1. EMPLOYMENT: The Committee hereby agrees to employ John Buckey as
Superintendent of the Marblehead Public Schools, and John Buckey accepts such employment on
the terms and conditions contained in this AGREEMENT.

2. DURATION: The Superintendent shall be employed as the Superintendent of the
Marblehead Public Schools for five (5) years, from July 1, 2020 through June 30, 2025, except as
this AGREEMENT may be otherwise extended by mutual agreement or terminated as provided
herein. No later than December 30, 2024, the Committee shall notify the Superintendent in writing
as to whether or not it desires to continue the Superintendent’s employment beyond June 30, 2025.
Should the Committee and the Superintendent mutually desire to continue the Superintendent’s
employment, they will make a good faith effort to complete negotiations for a successor
employment agreement on or before January 30, 2025. If they are unable to agree upon a new
employment agreement or an extension of this AGREEMENT, then this AGREEMENT will
expire, and the Syperintendent’s employment will end on June 30, 2025.

3. COMPENSATION:

3.1 Salary: The Superintendent will be paid an Annual Salary of One Hundred Eighty-
Five Thousand Dollars ($185,000.00) for the first Contract Year, July 1, 2020-June 30, 2021. For
the second Contract Year, July 1, 2021-June 30, 2022, the Superintendent shall receive a 2%
COLA adjustment, such that his Annual Salary shall be increased to One Hundred Eighty-Eight
Thousand Seven Hundred Dollars ($188,700.00). On or about December 1, 2021, after
consultation with the Superintendent, the Committee will determine the Superintendent’s Annual
Salary for the third Contract Year (July 1, 2022-June 30, 2023). Increases to the Superintendent’s
Annual Salary are dependent upon a satisfactory performance evaluation. However, the
Superintendent’s Annual Salary in the third Contract Year shall not be less than $188,700. For the
fourth (2023-2024) and fifth (2024-2025) Contract Years, the Committee will determine the
Superintendent’s Annual Salary for such Contract Years on or about December 1, 2022 and
December 1, 2023, respectively, after consultation with the Superintendent. The Superintendent’s
Annual Salary in each of such Contract Years shall not be less than that in the immediately
preceding Contract Year.
The Superintendent’s Annual Salary shall be subject to withholdings for state and federal taxes
and other withholdings required by law or authorized by the Superintendent. The Superintendent’s
Annual Salary shall be earned ratably in each of the Contract Years (July 1, 2020-June 30, 2021;
July I, 2021-June 30, 2022; July 1, 2022-June 30, 2023; July 1, 2023-June 30, 2024; July 1, 2024-
June 30, 2025) and shall be prorated for work of less than a full Contract Year. The
Superintendent’s salary shall be paid in equal installments in accordance with the procedures
goveming payment of other professional staff in the Marblehead Public Schools.

4. WORK YEAR AND LEAVE BENEFITS:

4.1 Work Year: The work year for the Superintendent is twelve months commencing July
I’ of each Contract Year and ending the following June 30. The Superintendent shall devote his
full time, skill, labor and attention to the discharge of his duties as Superintendent for the
Marblehead Public Schools.

4.2 Vacation Leave:

A. Accrual.

The Superintendent shall be entitled to twenty-five (25) vacation days per Contract
Year earned at the rate of 2.08333 days per month. The Superintendent may borrow
against future accrual during the same Contract Year. The Superintendent will
notify the School Committee Chairperson when he will be taking a vacation day(s).

B. Carry Over

A maximum often (10) vacation days may be carried over from Contract Year to
Contract Year, so that at any one time the maximum number of vacation days
which are available shall not exceed thirty-five (35).

C. Buy Back

The Superintendent may buy back up to five (5) accrued unused vacation days per
Contract Year at his per diem rate of pay then in effect provided that the
Superintendent gives the Committee timely written notice in accordance with this
paragraph in Section 4.2. So that the Committee may accurately plan for such a buy
back, the Superintendent must notify the Committee in writing of his intent to
access said buy back and the number of days he wishes to have bought back on or
before December 30th for a buy back to be made on or before June 30th of the
same Contract Year.

D. Per Diem Rate: For the purposes of determining the Superintendent’s per diem
rate under this AGREEMENT, the Superintendent’s Annual Salary shall be divided
by 261 days.

4.3 Sick Leave: The Superintendent shall be entitled to sick leave with pay in accordance ~
with the provisions in this Section 4.3. Effective July 1, 2020, the Superintendent will be granted a
bank of fifty (50) sick leave days. The Superintendent will accrue one (1) sick leave day per
month commencing July 1, 2020. The Superintendent may use accrued sick leave to cover the
Superintendent’s absences for personal illness or injury. The Superintendent may carry over
unused accrued sick leave days into subsequent Contract Years up to a maximum of one hundred
eighty (180) days.

4.4 Holidays: The Superintendent shall receive the following paid holidays:

New Year’s Day Labor Day

Martin Luther King Jr. Birthday Indigenous People’s Day (Columbus Day)
President’s Day Veterans’ Day

Patriot’s Day Thanksgiving Day

Memorial Day Friday after Thanksgiving

Independence Day Christmas Day

4.5 Personal Leave: The Committee may grant the Superintendent up to two (2) personal
leave days with pay per Contract Year for important legal or personal business which cannot be
conducted outside of the Superintendent’s workday or for emergencies. Unused personal leave
days shall not carry over into a subsequent Contract Year.

4.6 Bereavement Leave: The Superintendent may take up to five (5) work days as
bereavement leave with pay to make funeral arrangements and/or to attend the funeral/memorial
service for the Superintendent’s spouse, child, father, mother, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-
law, grandparent, grandchild, sister, brother, or other person residing in the Superintendent’s
household. The Superintendent may take up to two (2) workdays as bereavement leave with pay to
attend the funeral/memorial service for the Superintendent’s sister in-law, brother in-law, nephew,
or niece.

5. REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES AND NSIP:

5.1 Reimbursement for Expenses: The Committee shall reimburse the Superintendent in
accordance with Committee policy and procedure for reasonable and necessary, documented
expenses incurred in the performance of his duties upon the presentation by the Superintendent of
receipts submitted within 30 calendar days of incurring such expenses, including, but not limited
to expenses for conferences approved in advance by the Committee, as well as membership dues
for organizations approved in advance by the Committee. Such reimbursement shall not exceed
seven thousand dollars ($7,000.00) in the aggregate per Contract Year. The following dues and/or
registration fees do not need School Committee prior approval but are subject to the $7,000.00
aggregate limit per Contract Year:

MASS annual membership fee

MASS Leadership Institute program fee

Joint MASS and MASC Conference registration fee
AASA

ASCD

No reimbursements shall be made in excess of the seven thousand-dollar ($7,000.00) limit without —
the prior written request from the Superintendent and prior written authorization from the
Committee after a vote of the Committee at an Open Meeting.
5.2 NSIP: The Superintendent shall participate in the MASS New Superintendent
Induction Program (NSIP) for the first, second, and third Contract Years. The Committee shall
pay the cost for the NSIP program and such cost shall not be subject to the $7,000.00 limit in
Section 5.1.

6. GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE: The Superintendent may elect to obtain group
health insurance generally available to employees and their dependents in the Marblehead Public
Schools on the same terms and conditions as such insurance is generally available to other none
unionized employees in the Marblehead Public Schools, and the Superintendent recognizes that
the Marblehead School Committee and the Town of Marblehead may change such terms and
conditions and such insurance from time to time. If the Superintendent declines to obtain such
health insurance, the Superintendent shall provide proof of health insurance coverage through
another source and shall complete any required documentation including the Massachusetts Health
Insurance Responsibility Disclosure (“HIRD”) form.

7. DUTIES: The Superintendent shall have charge of the administration of the Marblehead
Public Schools consistent with law and Committee policies and directives. The Superintendent
shall be the chief executive officer of the School Department and shall employ, assign, direct,
evaluate, discipline, and terminate all employees of the Marblehead Public Schools consistent
with law and Committee policy. The Superintendent shall organize, reorganize, and arrange the
administrative and supervisory staff, including instruction and business affairs and shall be
responsible for the operation and management of the school department including the utilization
of and accounting for funds appropriated for the school department as well as all other funds
coming under the control of the school department. The Superintendent shall construct school
committee meeting agendas in consultation with and at the direction of the Committee
chairperson. The Superintendent shall attend all meetings of the Marblehead School Committee,
unless excused, and may participate in all School Committee deliberations except when matters
relating to the Superintendent’s own employment and/or this AGREEMENT are under
consideration. The Superintendent shall recommend regulations, rules, policies, and procedures
deemed necessary for the good order of the school departments, and, in general, perform all duties
incident to the office of the Superintendent, as provided by applicable laws and in accordance with
the policies and directives of the Committees, as they may be promulgated or modified from time
to time.

8. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION: The Committee shall devote at least a portion of
one meeting before June 30th of each Contract Year to an evaluation of the Superintendent’s
performance and working relationship with the Committee. This performance evaluation shall
comply with applicable law and regulations including using applicable rubrics developed by the
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education and be based in part upon
performance criteria developed by the Committee with input from the Superintendent. The
Committee shall evaluate the Superintendent at a meeting held in open session in accordance with
the provisions of Massachusetts General Laws. The Superintendent understands and agrees that
his evaluations will be conducted in an open session meeting of the Committee.

9, LICENSE: The Superintendent hereby represents to the Committee that he is currently
licensed to serve as Superintendent of Schools pursuant to the laws of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts and the Rules and Regulations of the Commissioner of Elementary and Secondary
Education and the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. As a
condition of employment and continued employment, the Superintendent shall maintain,
throughout the term of this AGREEMENT, a valid and appropriate license qualifying him to serve
as a Superintendent of Schools in a school district in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, as
required by Massachusetts General Laws, as such may be amended from time to time. The
Superintendent agrees to notify the Committee within 24 hours of his license being revoked,
rescinded, suspended, or lapsed.

10. PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES AND CONSULTING:

10.1 Professional Activities: The Superintendent shall devote his full-time, attention, and
energy to the business of the Marblehead Public Schools. However, the Committee encourages the
continuing professional growth of the Superintendent through the Superintendents participation, as
he might decide considering the responsibilities of the superintendent, in:

A. the operations, programs, conferences, and other activities conducted or sponsored
by local, state, and national school administrator and/or school committee
associations;

B. local, state and national conferences, seminars, and courses offered by private

institutions, commissions, or committees related to education; and

C. informational meetings with persons whose skills or backgrounds would serve to
improve the capacity of the Superintendent to perform his professional ,
responsibilities for the School District.

However, except for reimbursement for expenses consistent with Section 5 of this AGREEMENT,
no other funds will be made available for any of the professional activities listed in this Section
10.1.

10.2 Consulting: The Superintendent may engage in professional consulting work
provided that such consulting work does not interfere with or detract from his work as
Superintendent for the Marblehead Public Schools and provided that the Superintendent has
obtained prior authorization from the Committee to engage in such consulting work and uses his
vacation leave to cover his absences, if any, for such consulting work. The Committee shall not
reimburse the Superintendent for any expenses associated with such consulting work.

11. INDEMNIFICATION:

11.1 In accordance with and to the extent provided by applicable Massachusetts General
Laws, the Committee agrees to provide indemnification to the Superintendent against all
uninsured financial losses arising out of any proceeding, claim, demand, suit or judgment by the
reason of alleged negligence or other conduct resulting in bodily or other injury to any person or
damage to the property of any person committed while the Superintendent is acting within the
scope of his employment or under direction of the Committee. The parties understand and agree

5
that this indemnification provision shall not apply to actions by the Committee to suspend and/or
terminate the Superintendent.

11.2 The Superintendent shall, within five (5) calendar days of the time he is served with
any summons, complaint, process, notice, demand or pleading, deliver a copy of the same to the
Committee.

11.3 This Section 11 shall survive the termination of this AGREEMENT.
12. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT:

12.1 By the Committee with Good Cause: During the term of this AGREEMENT, the
Committee may suspend the Superintendent from his position as superintendent and/or may
terminate his employment and this Employment AGREEMENT for insubordination,
incompetency, neglect of duty, or other good cause. “Good cause” herein shall be defined as any
ground put forth by the Committee in good faith that is not arbitrary, irrational, unreasonable or
irrelevant to the task of building and maintaining an efficient school system. Prior to any
termination for good cause, the Committee shall provide the Superintendent with written notice of
the reason, reasons, charge or charges against the Superintendent, and the grounds on which such
reason(s) or charge(s) is based. Provided that the Superintendent has made a request in writing to
the Chairperson of the Committee within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of such written notice,
the Committee shall provide the Superintendent with a hearing upon said reason(s) or charge(s).
Such hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Open Meeting Law,
Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 30A. The Superintendent shall be entitled to have his legal
counsel present to advise him. The Superintendent shall be responsible for paying all fees and
costs associated with such legal counsel. The decision of the Committee, after such hearing, if
any, shall be final and binding, subject to such judicial review as may be provided under
applicable law. The Superintendent may request to use his accrued vacation days prior to his
separation from employment and/or the Committee may schedule the Superintendent for vacation
days prior to his final day of employment. In the event of termination pursuant to this paragraph,
the Committee shall not be required to pay, and the Superintendent shall not be entitled to receive
salary payments and benefits payable after the effective date of termination.

12.2 Early Termination Provision: The Committee may terminate this Employment
AGREEMENT and the Superintendent’s employment at any time on or prior to December 31,
2024 without cause by providing the Superintendent with at least one hundred (100) calendar days
written notice and paying the Superintendent an early termination payment of Ninety-Four
Thousand Three Hundred Fifty dollars ($94,3500.00) minus withholdings for state and federal
taxes and other withholdings required by law or authorized by the Superintendent. In the event of
termination pursuant to this Section 12.2, with the exception of the early termination payment
which shall be paid on or by the effective date of termination, the Committee shall not be required
to pay, and the Superintendent shall not be entitled to receive salary payments and benefits
payable after the effective date of termination. The Superintendent may request to use his accrued
vacation days prior to his separation from employment and/or the Committee may schedule the
Superintendent for vacation days prior to his final day of employment. This Section 12.2 shall not
be applicable to terminations pursuant to Section 12.1, 12.3, or 12.4 of this Agreement
12.3 For Disability: Subject to applicable law, if the Superintendent is absent from work
on account of a disability for more than one hundred (100) calendar days, the Committee shall
have the option of terminating his employment and this Employment AGREEMENT. If the
Committee exercises its option to terminate the Superintendent’s employment and this
Employment AGREEMENT, the Superintendent shall not be entitled to receive salary payments
and benefits payable after the effective date of such termination.

12.4 By the Superintendent: The Superintendent may terminate his employment by
submitting his written resignation to the Committee with as much advance notice as possible but
no less than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days advance notice. In the event of termination
pursuant to this paragraph, the Committee shall not be required to pay, and the Superintendent
shall not be entitled to receive salary payments and benefits payable after the effective date of the
Superintendent’s resignation. The Superintendent may request to use his accrued vacation days
prior to his separation from employment and/or the Committee may schedule the Superintendent
for vacation deys prior to his final day of employment.

13. TRANSITION AND RELOCATION:

13.1 Transition: The Committee and the Superintendent agree that the Superintendent
will be present in the Marblehead School District for a minimum of five (5) workdays prior to July
1, 2020 for the purposes of transitioning from the current administrator to the Superintendent.
Such days shall be referred to as “transition workdays”. The Committee and the Superintendent
may agree to additional transition workdays. The Committee shall pay the Superintendent Seven
Hundred Eight dollars ($708.00) per day for each transition workday authorized by the Committee
and worked by the Superintendent minus withholdings for state and federal taxes and other
withholdings required by law or authorized by the Superintendent. The Committee shall pay
transportation expenses for the Superintendent to work on transition workdays including ferry
travel between Nantucket and the Massachusetts mainland, mileage expenses and reasonable hotel
lodging expenses for the day or days the Superintendent is in the district on such transition
workdays. ;

13.2 Relocation: The Committee shall provide the Superintendent with a one-time
relocation allowance often thousand dollars ($10,000.00) to assist the Superintendent with moving
his household from Nantucket to Marblehead, Massachusetts, or to a community in reasonable
commuting distance to Marblehead. Such relocation allowance shall be paid in June or July of
2020. If the Superintendent terminates this AGREEMENT before July 1, 2021, he shall reimburse
the Committee for 100% of the relocation allowance ($10,000.00). If the Superintendent
terminates this AGREEMENT on or after July 1, 2021 and before July I, 2022, he shall reimburse
the Committee for 75% of the relocation allowance ($7,500.00). If the Superintendent terminates
this AGREEMENT on or after July 1, 2022 and before June 30, 2023, he shall reimburse the
Committee for 50% of the relocation allowance ($5,000.00).

14, NOTICES: All notices required or desired to be given under this AGREEMENT will
be deemed to be served if in writing and delivered by in-hand delivery to the Superintendent or
sent by certified mail to the Superintendent’s residence in the case of the Superintendent, or sent
by certified mail to its central office in the case of the Committee with a copy sent by certified
mail to the home address of the Chairperson of the Committee.
15. ENTIRE AGREEMENT: This AGREEMENT contains the whole agreement
between the Committee and the Superintendent. There have been no inducements, promises,
terms, conditions, or obligations made or entered into by either party other than those set forth
herein. No modification of or addition to this AGREEMENT shall be effective unless and until set
forth in writing and signed by the parties. This AGREEMENT supersedes in all respects all prior
agreements between the parties.

16. SEVERABILITY: If any term(s) or provision(s) of this AGREEMENT is held to be
invalid or unenforceable for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity and
enforceability of the remaining terms and provisions shall not be affected, and such invalid and/or
unenforceable term(s) and/or provision(s) shall be modified to the extent necessary to make it or
them enforceable.

17. GOVERNING LAW: This AGREEMENT shall be interpreted, enforced, governed
and construed under and in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

18. COUNTERPARTS: This AGREEMENT shall be executed in two counterparts, each
of which shall be deemed to be an original and both of which taken together will be deemed one
and the same instrument.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have caused this AGREEMENT to be subscribed in
duplicate on this “ day of July 2021.

Dr. John Buckey, Superintendent

ON BEHALF OF THE MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE
BY:

Sarah Gold, Chairperson
Marblehead School Committee
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE MARBLEHEAD PUBLIC SCHOOLS
AND
MICHELLE L. CRESTA

THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (“this AGREEMENT”) is made between the Marblehead

School Committee, hereinafter referred to as the “COMMITTEE”, and MICHELLE CRESTA (the
“ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT”). This AGREEMENT will be effective July 1, 2021. For mutual
consideration expressed herein, the COMMITTEE and the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT
(collectively the “PARTIES”) agree as follows:

1.

EMPLOYMENT

Pursuant to G.L. c. 71, § 59, the COMMITTEE, acting on the recommendation of the
Superintendent, hereby appoints and employs MICHELLE CRESTA as Assistant Superintendent
for Finance and Operations in the Marblehead Public Schools (“the DISTRICT”) and
MICHELLE CRESTA hereby accepts employment as the Assistant Superintendent for Finance
and Operations in the DISTRICT, subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter provided.

TERM
2.1 Duration: MICHELLE CRESTA shall be employed as the Assistant Superintendent for

Finance and Operations in the DISTRICT for an initial period, from July 1, 2021 through June 30,

2022, except as this AGREEMENT may be otherwise extended by mutual agreement in writing
or terminated as provided herein.

2.3 Negotiation of Successor Agreement: If the Superintendent, acting on behalf of the
COMMITTEE, is interested in continuing the employment relationship with the ASSISTANT
SUPERINTENDENT beyond June 30, 2022, the Superintendent shall provide the ASSISTANT
SUPERINTENDENT with written notice of intent to renew this AGREEMENT on or before
December 30, 2021. If the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT is interested in continuing the
employment relationship with the DISTRICT, she shall provide the Superintendent with written
notice of her interest in renewing this AGREEMENT on or before January 15, 2022. If the
ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT and the Superintendent both provide notice of their interest in
renewing this AGREEMENT, the Superintendent, acting on behalf of and subject to the approval
of the COMMITTEE, and the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall engage in negotiations
for a successor agreement to this AGREEMENT. Absent notice from the ASSISTANT
SUPERINTENDENT and/or Superintendent or in the absence of successful negotiations for a
successor agreement to this AGREEMENT on or before March 1, 2022, this AGREEMENT shall
automatically terminate on June 30, 2022, and the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT’S
employment with the DISTRICT shall end on that date.

COMPENSATION

3.1 Salary: The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT will be paid a salary at the annual rate of
$ 151,133 (one hundred fifty-one thousand one hundred thirty-three dollars) for the term of this
AGREEMENT as set forth in paragraph 2.1, above. Such salary shall be subject to withholdings
for state and federal taxes and other withholdings required by law or authorized by the
ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT. The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT’S salary shall be
paid in equal installments in accordance with the procedures and policies governing payment of
other professional staff in the DISTRICT.

WORK YEAR AND WORK DAY

4.1 Work Year: The work year for the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT is twelve (12)
months commencing July 1, 2021. The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall devote her full
time, skill, labor, and attention to the discharge of her duties as ASSISTANT
SUPERINTENDENT for the DISTRICT.

4.2, Work Day: The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT recognizes that the proper
performance of her duties and responsibilities will require the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT
to work longer than the school day and that her duties and responsibilities are not confined to
prescribed hours. The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT acknowledges that her position is
exempt under the Fair Labor Standards Act.

DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall perform all the duties and responsibilities
customarily performed by an Assistant Superintendent in accordance with G.L. c. 71, §59, as well
as those customarily performed by a school business administrator in accordance with G.L. c. 71,
§ 41. Such duties shall include, but not be limited, to those set forth in Attachment A to this
AGREEMENT.

CERTIFICATION/LICENSURE

The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall furnish to the Superintendent and maintain
throughout the term of this AGREEMENT valid and appropriate certifications/licenses issued by
the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (“ESE”) qualifying her to
work as an assistant superintendent and as a school business administrator in the Commonwealth
of Massachusetts. The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall notify the Superintendent within
twenty-four (24) hours of all actions by ESE to suspend or revoke her licenses and of all
suspension and revocations of her licenses.

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

The Superintendent shall evaluate the performance of the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT,
including but not limited to achievement of the goals and objectives, and shall meet with the
ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT on or before June 15, 2022 to discuss such evaluation.

HOLIDAYS AND LEAVE/ BENEFITS

9.1 Holidays: The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall receive the paid holidays which are
set forth in the Policy Statement — Benefits of Administrators (“DISTRICT POLICY
STATEMENT”), section 5, including amendments thereof during the term of this AGREEMENT.
9.2 Vacation Leave: The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall be entitled to the number of
vacation days per Contract Year as is established by the DISTRICT POLICY STATEMENT,
section 1, the rate at which such days are earned as specified therein, the scheduling of such days
as specified therein, and the requirements regarding requests as specified therein, including
amendments of such section 1 during the term of this AGREEMENT. A maximum of ten (10)
days may be carried over from Contract Year to Contract Year, so that at any one time the
maximum number of vacation days which are available shall not exceed thirty-five (35) days.

9.3 Sick Leave: The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall be entitled to the number of sick
leave days per year as is established by the DISTRICT POLICY STATEMENT, section 6, the
accrual/accumulation of such days as specified therein, and the granting of such additional days

as specified therein, including amendments of such section 6 during the term of this
AGREEMENT. Sick leave will be used for personal and or the illness of her parent or member of
her immediate household. The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT may request the following
additional temporary non-accumulative leave of absence with full pay each contract year: Up to
five (5) days per work year if the absence is caused by the serious illness of the ASSISTANT
10.

11.

12.

13.

14,

SUPERINTENDENT’S parent or the serious illness of a member of her immediate household, if
her presence is necessary. For purposes of this section the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT
may be required to substantiate serious illness of her parent or member of her immediate
household and that her presence is necessary for approval by the Superintendent or his/her
designee, which approval shall not be unreasonable withheld.

9.4 Personal Leave and Bereavement Leave: Any other form of leave provided to the
ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, including but not limited to personal leave and bereavement
leave, shall be determined in accordance with the DISTRICT POLICY STATEMENT, section 3,
including amendments of such section 3 during the term of this AGREEMENT. The
ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT will be entitled to two (2) Personal Leave paid days per
contract year. All requests for Personal Leave shall be made to the Superintendent or his/her
designee and are subject to the Superintendent’s approval, which approval will not be
unreasonably withheld.

9.5 DISTRICT POLICY STATEMENT: Attached hereto as Attachment B is the DISTRICT
POLICY STATEMENT which is in effect on the date of this AGREEMENT. The PARTIES
recognize and acknowledge that, as set forth in the DISTRICT POLICY STATEMENT, section
12, the COMMITTEE reserves the right to amend any provision in the DISTRICT POLICY
STATEMENT at any time during the term of this AGREEMENT.

CELL PHONE

The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT will be entitled to reimbursement of cell phone expenses
for school-related purposes, provided that such reimbursement shall not exceed $60.00 per
calendar month. Appropriate and timely reimbursement requests must be submitted to the
Superintendent in order to receive reimbursement.

HEALTH INSURANCE

The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT may elect to obtain group health insurance generally
available to employees and their dependents in the DISTRICT on the same terms and conditions
as such insurance is generally available to other non-unionized employees in the DISTRICT, and
the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT recognizes that the Town of Marblehead and the
COMMITTEE may change such terms and conditions and such insurance from time to time.

PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE OF THE DISTRICT

The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT may accept speaking, writing, lecturing or other
engagements of a professional nature provided they do not interfere with or detract from her
duties as ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, and provided that she has the prior written approval
of the Superintendent. The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall use her accrued vacation
leave to cover her absence(s), if any, for such approved speaking, writing, lecturing, or other
professional engagements.

TUITION REIMBURSEMENT AND PROFESSIONAL GROWTH AND
DEVELOPMENT FUNDS

The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT will be eligible to apply for tuition reimbursement and
professional growth and development funds in accordance with the DISTRICT POLICY
STATEMENT, sections 7 and 11, including any amendments of such sections 7 or 11 during the
term of this AGREEMENT. Section 9.5 of this AGREEMENT, above, is incorporated herein by
reference.

TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
14.1 Termination by the DISTRICT: During the term of this AGREEMENT, the
15.

16.

17.

Superintendent may dismiss the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT and terminate this
AGREEMENT at any time for insubordination, incompetence, incapacity, neglect of duty, or
other cause. “Cause” herein shall be defined as any ground put forth by the Superintendent that is
not arbitrary, irrational, unreasonable or irrelevant to the task of building and maintaining an
efficient school or school district. Prior to any dismissal for cause, the Superintendent shall
provide the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT with written notice of intent to dismiss with an
explanation of the grounds for the dismissal and, if the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT so
requests, she shall be given a reasonable opportunity within fifteen (15) days after receiving such
notice to review the decision at a meeting with the Superintendent. The ASSISTANT —
SUPERINTENDENT may be represented by an attorney or other representative at such meeting,
at the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT’S own expense. At such a meeting with the
Superintendent, the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall have the opportunity to present
information pertaining to the basis for the decision and to her status, but there shall be no
presentation of witnesses or cross-examination. The decision of the Superintendent, after such
meeting, if any, shall be final and binding, subject to any review as may be provided by
applicable law. In the event of dismissal pursuant to this paragraph 14.1, this AGREEMENT
shall terminate as of the date of termination and the DISTRICT shall not be required to pay, and
the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT shall not be entitled to receive, compensation and benefits
provided for by this AGREEMENT after the effective date of such termination. The DISTRICT
shall pay the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT for her accrued unused vacation days remaining
at the time of her separation from employment.

14.2 Termination by ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT: The ASSISTANT
SUPERINTENDENT may terminate her employment by submitting her written resignation to the
Superintendent with as much advance notice as possible but in no event less than ninety (90)
calendar days before the date of termination. In the event of termination pursuant to this
paragraph 14.3, the DISTRICT shall not be required to pay, and the ASSISTANT
SUPERINTENDENT shall not be entitled to receive compensation and benefits provided by this
AGREEMENT after the effective date of the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT’S resignation.
The ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT may request to use her accrued vacation days prior to her
separation from employment and/or the Superintendent may schedule the ASSISTANT
SUPERINTENDENT for vacation days prior to her final day of employment. The DISTRICT
shall pay the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT for her accrued unused vacation days remaining
at the time of the ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT’S separation from employment.

ENTIRE AGREEMENT

This AGREEMENT contains the whole agreement between the PARTIES and there are no
inducements, promises, terms, conditions or obligations made or entered into by either party other
than those contained herein. This AGREEMENT may not be changed except by agreement in
writing signed by the PARTIES.

INVALIDITY

If any term(s) or provision(s) of this AGREEMENT are held to be invalid or unenforceable for
any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity and enforceability of the remaining
terms and provision shall not be affected, and such invalid and/or unenforceable term(s) and/or
provision(s) shall be modified to the extent necessary to make it or them enforceable.

GOVERNING LAW
This AGREEMENT shall be interpreted, enforced, governed and construed under and in
accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
18, COUNTERPARTS
This AGREEMENT shall be executed in two counterparts each of which shall be deemed to be
an original and both of which taken together will be deemed on and the same instrument.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the PARTIES have caused this AGREEMENT to be signed and sealed in
duplicate on this___ day of July, 2021

Michelle L. Cresta DATE
Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations

FOR THE MARBLEHEAD PUBLIC SCHOOLS

Sarah Gold. DATE
Chairperson, Marblehead School Committee

Attachment A — Job Description
Attachment B- Policy Statement- Benefits of Administrators
Appendix B — Policy Statement- Drug Free Workplace
ATTACHMENT A

JOB DESCRIPTION
. Fiscal Management

¢Maintain appropriate and effective fiscal procedures to assure the most efficient budget
controls including maintaining general ledger and financial statements

*Develop the annual budget and provide input regarding long range financial planning in
collaboration with the Superintendent and other administrative staff

eImplement and monitor accounting procedures that ensure proper recording of all receipts
and expenditures and conformity with G. L. Chapter 30B (Procurement Law) and auditing
requirements

eMonitor the monthly budget projections and prepare all monthly fiscal reports and forecasts
for the Superintendent and reporting to the COMMITTEE

*Oversee and provide necessary documentation for annual fiscal audit and “single audit” if
necessary

Prepare the DISTRICT’s annual financial reports for DESE, balance sheets, revenue,
expenditures statements and other reports in support of grants, compliance requirements or
required financial documentation

¢Develop and recommend financial policies regarding the management of the DISTRICT’s
fiscal matters to the Superintendent and the COMMITTEE

eManage all business, financial and personnel records according to DISTRICT policies and in
compliance with applicable state/federal laws and regulations

. Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable, Payroll & Purchasing

Supervise all accounts receivable and accounts payable functions for the DISTRICT and
maintain appropriate communication with the Town of Marblehead Treasurer and its Town
Accountant

*Act as Payroll Officer for the DISTRICT including supervision of the Payroll Accountant;
Monitor all payroll functions (accounting, human resource functions and personnel)
Responsible for the purchase of equipment and supplies necessary for the proper operation of
the DISTRICT

¢Maintain efficient inventory system for all DISTRICT equipment and supplies
Responsible for the maintenance, lease agreements and service contracts of all office
equipment including computers, copy machines, FAX machines, telephones, postage meter,
etc.

. Grants and Insurance Management

Responsible for execution and maintenance of all state and federal grants, including reports
and audits, and for procurement compliance regarding all contracts entered into by the
DISTRICT pursuant to grants

eManage and maintain all DISTRICT insurance programs.

. Additional Oversight/Management Tasks
*Oversee all DISTRICT procurement functions in conjunction with the Town of Marblehead’s

Chief Procurement Officer, including but not limited to developing and awarding bids and
requests for proposals
Supervise the Food Service Director and the management of food service operations
Supervise the Facilities Director and, in conjunction with the Facilities Director, manage on a
daily basis DISTRICT facilities and operation and DISTRICT transportation operations

. Other

* Other related duties as are specifically assigned by the Superintendent

*Participate in MASBO and other professional development related to the fiduciary
responsibilities of the DISTRICT

Attend COMMITTEE meetings and other DISTRICT and Town of Marblehead

government meetings, as requested

¢Participate in facilities planning and development to support DISTRICT programs, including
but not limited to working with school building committee
ATTACHMENT B
POLICY STATEMENT - BENEFITS OF ADMINISTRATORS

Administrators employed in the Marblehead Public School system under individual contracts shall be
eligible to receive the following benefits, subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter provided.

1.

VACATIONS

A.

Administrators shall be entitled to an annual vacation of twenty-five (25) days per contract
year which days shall be earned at the rate of 2.08 days per month of service.

B. The scheduling of vacations shall be within the discretion of the Superintendent.

Cc. Returning Administrators shall submit any vacation period requests in writing to the
Superintendent by April 1.

EARLY RETIREMENT.

Administrators shall be eligible to participate in the early retirement program subject to the
following terms and conditions:

A.

The Administrator must complete (a) twenty years of service in the Marblehead Public
Schools; or (b) a total of thirty years in teaching/administration, the last fifteen of which
have been consecutive in the Marblehead Public Schools ; or (c) has completed nineteen
years of service in the Marblehead Public Schools and has given two or three years notice,
as provided below, in which case payments would commence in the twentieth year.
The Administrator must give notice of intent to participate in the Early Retirement
Program by March 15 of the school year preceding the school year in which their
retirement payment commences. The notice is to be given on the form provided by the
Office of the Superintendent.
The Administrator must be no less than fifty and no more than sixty-three at the end of
his/her last year of service.
For each of the remaining school years prior to retirement (not more than three)
following the school year in which notice of intent to participate in given, the
Administrator shall be paid the following additional salary:

3 years advance notice: $5000 each year ($15,000 total)

2 years advance notice: $5000 each year ($10,000 total)

1 year advance notice: $5000
The notice of intent to retire cannot be withdrawn or revoked.

1. The Administrator must retire pursuant to Massachusetts Teacher Retirement law. -
2. The Administrator or the Administrator’s estate or legal representative, as the case may
be, shall not be required to pay back any money received under the early retirement
program in the event the Administrator dies or is forced to retire because of disability

or other unanticipated good cause prior to the year in which the Administrator’s
retirement was contemplated. No additional money shall be paid in such case,
however.

OTHER LEAVES

Any leave of absence not otherwise provided for in the Administrator’s individual contract,
including, but not limited to, funeral leave, legal proceedings, leave for jury duty, personal time
off, professional days, shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:

A.

Request for any such leave shall be made in writing to the Superintendent as soon as
possible.
B. Subject to law, the granting or denial of any such leave, as well as the terms thereof, shall
be subject to the approval of the Superintendent.

MILITARY LEAVE

The DISTRICT will comply with the requirements of all Massachusetts and Federal laws with
respect to Administrators who are called to serve in the armed forces of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts or the United States.

HOLIDAYS
Administrators shall be entitled to the following holidays when the administration offices are
closed:

New Years Day Labor Day

Martin Luther King Jr.’s Birthday Columbus Day
Washington’s Birthday Veterans’ Day

Patriots’ Day Thanksgiving Day
Memorial Day Day after Thanksgiving
Independence Day Christmas Day

(and any other holidays on which the administration offices are closed)

SICK LEAVE

A. Administrators shall be granted, in the event of personal injury or illness, up to eighteen
(18) sick leave days each fiscal year.

B. Unused sick leave days may be accumulated up to and including one hundred eighty (180)
days.

C. The granting of any additional sick leave days, in the event the Administrator uses up
his/her annual and accumulated sick leave, is subject to the approval of the Superintendent.

TUITION REIMBURSEMENT

Administrators shall be eligible for tuition reimbursement, subject to the following terms and

conditions:

A. The course, seminar, workshop or special program must be approved by the
Superintendent. Under normal circumstances, request for approval must be made in
writing, on a form supplied by the Superintendent, in advance of the start of the course,
seminar, workshop or special program. Where advance request is not reasonably possible,
the request for approval must be made as soon as reasonably possible after the start of the
course, seminar, workshop or special program.

B. The course must be recognized for college credit at an accredited college or university and
the ADMINISTRATOR must submit written evidence of such recognition from said
college or university. The written evidence must be submitted, under normal
circumstances, in advance of the start of the course. Where this is not reasonably possible,
the written evidence must be submitted as soon as reasonably possible after the start of the
course.

C. Reimbursement: The Administrator shall pay the entire tuition cost of approved courses
and will be reimbursed under the following terms and conditions:

10.

11.

12;

1. The ADMINISTRATOR must obtain a grade of B- or better and present
satisfactory evidence thereof to the Superintendent. In the event the course is not
graded in such fashion, the equivalent of B- or better shall be satisfactory.

2. A receipted copy of the tuition bill must be submitted to the Superintendent as
evidence of the cost of the course.

3. Within 30 days after receipt of items C1 and C2, the Committee shall reimburse the
Administrator for his/her out-of-pocket tuition payment.

4. Not more than two courses per fiscal year will be reimbursed by the District as_
aforementioned.
5. Audited courses will not be reimbursed.
ADMINISTRATOR FILES

Administrators shall have the right to review the contents of their personnel folder, excluding
confidential recommendations for employment in or advancement in the Marblehead School
System. Administrators shall have the right to submit a written comment on the contents of their
personnel folder and the written comments will then be placed in their personnel folder. The
Administrator shall be notified when any material considered to be derogatory is added to the
personnel folder.

PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS

Whenever duty authorized by any Administrator on a form or forms approved by the

Superintendent, payroll deductions on behalf of such Administrator shall be made every payday

and paid over in accordance with such form or forms for any or all of the following purposes:

A. Premiums under the town of Marblehead Employee’s Group Insurance Program.

B. Premiums for any tax-sheltered annuity plan contracted by the Administrator pursuant to
United States Public Law #87-370. (Authorization must be given prior to September 30.)
The terms and conditions of eligibility shall be the same as currently (as of 6/17/93) set
forth in the aforementioned Articles of the Administrator’s Agreement as if said contract
provisions were applicable to the Administrator.

HEALTH INSURANCE

Administrators shall be entitled to participate in the same health and other insurance benefits
provided by the Town to other professional staff of the Marblehead School district, subject to the
terms and conditions of said coverage and at the same rate as provided said employees.

PROFESSIONAL GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT

The amount available, subject to the conditions herein provided, for the professional growth and
development of each ADMINISTRATOR shall be $1,000 per Administrator. Requests for
professional development and growth money shall be made, in writing, by the Administrator
involved, to the Superintendent, and shall be subject to his/her approval. In the event the
Superintendent approves payment of the cost of voluntary professional membership(s), it is
understood that the cost of the first such membership so approved will not be charged against said
$1,000, but that the cost of any subsequent membership so approved would be so charged.

AMENDMENT OF POLICY
The Marblehead School Committee reserves the right to review and, at any time, change (modify,
amend, delete, or add to), prospectively, the terms and conditions of this Policy.

10
APPENDIX B File: GBEC
DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY

The School District will provide a drug-free workplace and certifies that it will:

1. Notify all employees in writing that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession
or use of a controlled substance, is prohibited in the District’s workplace, and specify the actions
that will be taken against employees for violation of such prohibitions.

2. Establish a drug-free awareness program to inform employees about the dangers of drug abuse in
the workplace; the District’s policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace; and available drug
counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; and the penalty that may be imposed
on employees for drug abuse violations occurring in the workplace.

3. Make it a requirement that each employee whose employment is funded by a federal grant be given
a copy of the statement as required.
4. Notify the employee in the required statement that as a condition of employment under the grant,

the employee will abide by the terms of the statement, and will notify the District of any criminal
drug statute conviction for a violation occurring in the workplace no later than five days after such

conviction.

5. Notify the federal agency within ten days after receiving notice from an employee or otherwise
receiving notice of such conviction.

6. Take one of the following actions within 30 days of receiving notice with respect to any employee

who is so convicted; take appropriate personnel action against such an employee, up to and including
termination; or require such employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or
rehabilitation program approved for such purposes by a federal, state or local health law
enforcement, or other appropriate agency.

7. Make a good faith effort to continue to maintain a drug-free workplace through implementation of
all the provisions of this policy.

LEGAL REFS:.: The Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988

CROSS REFS:.: JICH, Alcohol Use by Students

ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF RECEIPT
Marblehead Public Schools Drug-Free Workplace Policy
To the Employee:
This acknowledgment must be completed, signed, and returned to your immediate supervisor.

I, Michelle Cresta, an employee of the Marblehead Public Schools, hereby certify that I have received a
copy of the Drug-Free Workplace Policy - Standards adopted by the Marblehead School Committee on
September, 21, 2016.

Michelle L. Cresta
(Signature) (Date)

11

MPS
MARBLEHEAD Office of the Superintendent
Dr. John J, Buckey
9 Widger Road,
PUBLIC SCHOOLS Marblehead, MA 01945
phone: 781.639.3140 x16
fax: 781.639.3149

Memo To: Marblehead School Committee

From: Dr. John J. Buckey
Re: User Fees
Date: July 7, 2021

After consulting with Athletic Director, Greg Ceglarski and Director of Finance, Michelle Cresta, we
recommend the following User Fees for the 2021-2022 academic year. We did not increase fees during
the 2020-2021 school year.

High School Historical 21-22 High School
Category 2018-2019 % $ 2019-2020 % $
Rate increase | increase Rate inctease | increase
Athletic Teams/ $ 449.00 2.5% $ 11.23 $ 460.00 2.5% $11.50

Performing Arts - Unlimited

Clubs Meeting Weekly $ 275.00 2.5% $ 6.88 $ 282.00 2.5% $7.05
Clubs Meeting Bi-Weekly $ 138.00 2.5% $ 3.45 $ 141.00 2.5% $3.53
Flag Football - Sr. Girls only $ 61.00 2.5% $1.53 $ 63.00 2.5% $1.58
Family Maximum $ 592.00 2.5% $ 14.80 $ 607.00 $15.18
Middle School Historical 21-22, Middle School
Category 2018-2019 % $ 2019-2020 % $
Rate inctease | increase Rate increase | increase
Interscholastic Sports $ 204.00 2.5% $ 5.10 $ 209.00 2.5% $5.23
Intramural Sports/ Activities $ 128.00 2.5% $ 3.20 $ 131.00 2.5% $3.28

MARBLEHEAD Office of the Superintendent

Dr. John J. Buckey

9 Widger Road,
PUBLIC SCHOOLS Marblehead, MA 01945

phone: 781.639.3140 x16

fax: 781.639.3149

Elementary School Historical 21-22 Elementary School
Category 2018-2019 % $ 2019-2020 % $
Rate inctease | increase Rate inctease | increase
All Athletic/Entichment $ 125.00 2.5% $ 3.13 $ 128.00 2.5% $3.20
Clubs - Unlimited

