2021-22 Opening Recommendation
           8/24/2021
DESE and Commissioner Updates
 ★ As noted in the Updates to DESE COVID-19 Guidance released on May 27, 2021, all
   districts and schools will be required to be in-person, full-time, five days a week this
   fall and all previously-released Department of Elementary and Secondary Education
   (DESE) health and safety requirements will be lifted.
 ★ DESE/DPH COVID-19 Guidance for Districts and Schools: Fall 2021 released July 30,
   2021
 ★ DESE hosted a COVID-19 Testing Program webinar on August 11, 2021. Andrew
   Petty, Deanna McMahon and I attended.
 ★ DESE sponsored a COVID-19 School Testing Programs with CIC Health on August
   13, 2021. I attended with Deanna McMahon. We applied that day.
 ★ Commissioner Riley called an Emergency Meeting Friday, August 20, 2021.
 ★ Tuesday, August 24 Commissioner Riley to meet with DESE Board.
Masking
  ●   As of this writing, the Commissioner is seeking DESE approval to mandate mask wearing in K-12 schools throughout
      the Commonwealth until at least October 1. They meet on Tuesday, August 24th to formalize this recommendation. If
      DESE mandates mask wearing, we will oblige.
Safety Considerations & Mitigation Strategies
 ➔ Masking
 ➔ Diagnostic Testing
 ➔ Distancing
 ➔ Ventilation
 ➔ Air Purifiers
 ➔ MERV 13 filters
 ➔ Tents
 ➔ Hand Sanitizers
 ➔ Seating Charts’
COVID-19 Testing Program
COVID-19 Testing Program
  ● Update Covid Symptom Checklist
  ● Update Health Attestation forms
    ○ students
    ○ staff
  ● Close Contact
  ● Quarantine
Department Updates for 2021-22
 ➔ Food Services - Richard Kelleher
 ➔ Facilities - Todd Bloodgood
 ➔ Technology - Stephen Kwiatek
 ➔ Special Services - Paula Donnelly
 ➔ Teaching & Learning - Nan Murphy
 ➔ Athletics - Greg Ceglarski
FY22 School Operating Budget
    QUESTIONS
          or
          Comments
Marblehead Public Schools
Return to School, 2021-22


      August 20, 2021
Good People of Marblehead:

Thank you for your patience and support as we tackle some of the most complex yet important
educational challenges of our time.

The past 18 months have been exceptionally challenging for members of our community. Our educators,
our students, and our families have learned and grown from these experiences. Our pandemic recovery
plans will recognize and address the trauma and impact of the pandemic, taking into account the unique
experiences of individual students and families.

My top priority for the 2021-22 school year is to offer an uninterrupted, in-person learning
experience. To accomplish this, we will monitor health and safety guidelines from the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Massachusetts Department of Public Health (MDPH), and
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE). We will also continue to
work closely with the Marblehead Board of Health Director and our exemplary school nurses to
understand local and state statistics relative to COVID-19 prevalence and vaccination rates in our
community (both favorable at this time).

While we will work to ensure as much consistency and stability as possible, flexibility will continue
to be paramount. Tracking the data and constant collaboration will allow protocol optimization and help
us to provide the safest possible learning environment. The protocols and procedures contained in this
document are subject to change throughout the year, and in the event that adjustments are necessary (or
that guidance changes at the local, state, or national level) we will do our very best to communicate in a
clear and timely manner.

We hope you enjoy the rest of your summer, and we look forward to welcoming you back very soon.


Sincerely,

John J. Buckey
Dr. John Buckey
Superintendent of Schools
Marblehead Public School District




                                                                                         1
Guiding Principles


These guiding principles were developed in 2020-21 with input from all MPS stakeholder groups and the
community. They represent the key values that drive our return to full in-person instruction.



   1. Welfare, safety and health. We will track and follow federal (CDC) and state-mandated (MDPH)
       and DESE guidelines. We will consult with medical, public health, MHD Board of Health and
       school health experts to adopt practices that ensure these three principles - welfare, health and
       safety - are maintained.


   2. Educational excellence. We will maintain and ensure high-caliber teaching and learning
       consistent with the Marblehead Public Schools experience. We will hold ourselves to the highest
       standards in both domains.


   3. Social-emotional support. After eighteen months of uncertainty for both students and staff, we
       will innovate in order to develop new ways to support emerging challenges. We will continue the
       delivery of critical student support services.


   4. Equity. We will be intentional on matters of addressing the needs of all students, including our
       most vulnerable populations. We are committed to expanding access to tools, technology and
       support in order to ensure equity and access to robust learning at all levels.


   5. Communication. We will continue to ensure that information is readily available and updated as
       needed. We will seek feedback to improve our communication tools and make decision-making
       transparent.


   6. Flexibility and fluidity. As we move through the return of full in-person instruction, we know we
       might have to make adaptations or amendments. We reserve the right to adjust these plans at
       any time given the trajectory of COVID-19 in our community or across the state, budgets and
       other factors.



                                                                                         2
   7. PPI (presume positive intentions). We must renew our commitment to presume positive
       intentions and remain open-minded to the perspectives of our colleagues, neighbors and friends,
       keeping what’s best for students at the heart of our decision-making.




Full District In-Person Learning

Per DESE, “all districts and schools will be required to be in-person, full-time, five days a week, and
all DESE health and safety requirements will be lifted.

This includes all physical distancing requirements. Districts are no longer able to offer remote learning as
a standard learning model. Pathways that existed prior to the pandemic for offering virtual learning to
individual students in limited cases will remain available to districts and schools. These include
home/hospital tutoring programs due to a documented medical condition and other narrow
circumstances.”

Marblehead is fortunate in this transition because a majority of our district’s students attended full in-
person days of instruction to end the 2020-21 school year. We have done full, in-person school already
and we know how to successfully inhabit our buildings while applying necessary safety protocols.

That being said, we fully recognize that the removal of the remote learning option impacts over 200
Marblehead students. We are mindful of the unique re-entry these students face and we are dedicated
to supporting their return to in-person instruction. Principals are creating options for school tours and
other familiarization opportunities and teachers will be aware of which students were fully remote in
2020-21.




                                                                                           3
Mitigation Strategies


  ● DISTANCING: During Spring and Summer 2020, principals conducted classroom-by-classroom
     site and resource feasibility work to understand how to safely accommodate students and staff.
        ○   We analyzed air handling and filtration system capacity to ensure adequate, safe, and
            high quality ventilation in teaching spaces.
        ○   We identified additional space in which to separate sick students from well students, and
            in which to care for students or staff in the event they become sick during the day.
        ○   We determined that we could reach the student and adult capacity of most classrooms in
            the district with three-foot physical distancing. We returned to full in-person instruction
            last spring with three-foot spacing in place, and we return to school this fall with the
            same capacity to keep all students, for the most part and in most instances, spaced three
            feet apart.
        ○   As always, where we can maximize the distance we will endeavor to do so as a
            purposeful mitigation strategy.
        ○   Physical distancing will be prioritized while eating indoors and during defined activities.



  ● MASKING: Consistent with our approach in 2020-21, we form masking recommendations with
     an eye to guidance from DESE, Massachusetts Department of Public Health (MDPH) and the
     Marblehead Board of Health and its Director.
        ○   As of this writing, the Commissioner is seeking DESE approval to mandate mask wearing
            in K-12 schools throughout the Commonwealth until at least October 1. They meet on
            Tuesday, August 24th to formalize this recommendation. If DESE mandates mask wearing,
            we will oblige.
        ○   Currently, MDPH strongly recommends that all students in grades K-6 mask indoors,
            except those who cannot do so due to medical conditions or behavioral needs.
        ○   The Marblehead Board of Health and the Marblehead Health Dept recommends that
            masks be strongly recommended indoors for students and staff in grades K-6, except
            those who cannot do so due to medical conditions or behavioral needs, and that masks be
            strongly recommended indoors for students and staff in grades 7-12, and for all visitors to
            school buildings.
        ○   Masks are required for all students and staff, vaccinated or unvaccinated, on school buses
            and in school health offices.



                                                                                        4
       ○   As a community, we will be deliberate in normalizing mask wearing for any students and
           staff for whom it is either required or strongly recommended. Bullying associated with
           mask wearing will not be tolerated.
       ○   In alignment with the statewide advisory on masking, masks are not necessary outdoors
           and may be removed while eating indoors.
       ○   We will use thresholds to make adjustments to our masking recommendations or
           requirements. These thresholds will be developed in partnership with the Marblehead
           Health Department and the Superintendent’s Medical Advisory Committee.




●   DIAGNOSTIC TESTING: During 2020-21, DESE and the Executive Office of Health and Human
    Services (EOHHS) introduced COVID19 screening and diagnostic testing in the school setting.
    They have expanded the program for the 2021-2022 school year and Marblehead has been
    accepted with priority standing. Administrative training is underway and all school nurses will be
    trained to administer the program. We are also hiring a Covid Coordinator to work with state
    appointed support personnel for Marblehead on all of the logistics of the program.



●   CONTACT TRACING & QUARANTINE: Close contacts are defined as individuals who have been
    within 6 feet of a COVID-19 positive individual while indoors, for at least 15 minutes during a 24-



                                                                                     5
         hour period.1 2 Please note that the at-risk exposure time begins 48 hours prior to symptom onset
         (or time of positive test if asymptomatic) and continues until the time the COVID-19 positive
         individual is isolated. In general, close contacts should follow the testing and quarantine
         response protocols. However, certain close contacts are exempted from testing and quarantine
         response protocols as noted in the following DESE guidance document.



    ●    VACCINATION: We urge all those eligible for the vaccine to please: get vaccinated! Toward this
         end we will continue to offer vaccination clinics throughout the year in partnership with the
         Marblehead Health Department.
              ○ In addition to recommending COVID-19 vaccination, it continues to be essential
                  that as many children and adults as possible receive flu vaccines this fall. This will
                  reduce the number of students who need to stay home due to illness.



    ●    OTHER MITIGATION EFFORTS: Massachusetts has among the highest vaccination rates of any
         state in the nation, and evidence continues to reinforce that the COVID-19 vaccines are highly
         effective, especially against severe disease.3 Even for those students not yet vaccinated, the
         apparent risk of COVID-19 to children remains small. 3 4 Even so, we will continue to engage
         best practices with regard to using MERV 13 filters, air purifiers, and enhanced ventilation.
              ○   The district has invested in acquiring individual air purifiers for any educator who wants
                  one in his/her classroom or office and will continue to provide them.
              ○   In larger spaces, multiple purifiers are in use.
              ○   Open windows and outdoor learning are encouraged.
              ○   We will once again have tents at each school to encourage our students and staff to be
                  outside whenever possible.




1 Note: To be a close contact, the 15 minutes must occur within a 24-hour period. Multiple brief or transitory

interactions (less than a minute) throughout the day are unlikely to result in 15 minutes of cumulative contact and do
not meet the definition of close contact.
2 https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/schools-childcare/operation-strategy.html


3 https://www.mass.gov/info-details/covid-19-response-reporting


4 http://dx.doi.org/10.15585/mmwr.mm6914e4




                                                                                                      6
7
At a glance…


                            End of 2020-21                                    Start of 2021-22

Distancing     Minimum of 3-foot physical distancing,        Same as 2020-21
               more distance wherever possible

Masking        Masks required in schools for all students    PENDING DESE DECISION - see MASKING section
               and staff. Not required outdoors or when      above.
               eating.

Hygiene &      Hand sanitizer in each classroom and hand     Same as 2020-21 - strongly encouraged, signage
Hand Washing   sanitizing stations in all buildings.         to promote it and hand sanitizing stations
               Promoted the importance of regular hand       throughout the buildings, in classrooms and
               washing.                                      offices.

Testing        Spring pool testing program pilot program.    Comprehensive COVID19 screening & diagnostic
                                                             testing program, including real-time testing and
                                                             response for symptomatic people, “test and stay”
                                                             close contact testing, and routine pooled testing.

Vaccination    2 vaccination clinics at MVMS.                1 vaccination clinic this summer. Will offer clinics
                                                             this fall and monitor “booster” clinic needs.

Contact        Close contacts identified and notified.       Same as 2020-21, except that certain close
Tracing        School-level alerts issued when a COVID       contacts are exempted from testing and
               case has occurred. District case              quarantine response protocols as noted in the
               dashboard updated regularly.
                                                             following DESE guidance document.

Quarantine     Followed guidance provided by CDC,            DESE has issued revised quarantine guidance this
               DESE and MDPH.                                year. It is outlined in the following DESE guidance
                                                             document.

Daily Health   Students and families expected to review      Similar to 2020-21 but with an updated symptom
Attestation    health attestation each day before arrival.   checklists: Student Attestation, Staff Attestation

Other          Individual air purifiers available for        Same as 2020-21
Mitigation     educators’ classrooms or offices. Multiple
Protocols      purifiers running in larger spaces.
               Encouraged open windows & outdoor
               learning. Outdoor learning areas and/or
               tents at each school.




                                                                                               8
Social Emotional Learning

We know that a full return to in-person learning will require special attention to meeting the social-
emotional needs of staff and students.


The District will leverage the past efforts of employing community building meetings and Positive Behavior
Intervention Systems (PBIS) to continue providing opportunities for staff and students to develop self-
awareness, social awareness, relationship building, and problem-solving skills. Some of the goals for
social-emotional learning will be as follows:


   ●   Support the transition of all students by building strong relationships and community.
   ●   Teach executive functioning skills students will need.
   ●   Support social-emotional learning needs through targeted assessments and interventions..


Social-emotional learning opportunities will be built into the schedule for each day. Each day at the
elementary level will begin with a community meeting to serve as a Social-Emotional Learning check-in
for all students. At the secondary level, all classes will start with opportunities for a social-emotional
learning check-in.


Additionally, schools will also make efforts to include school-wide community-building events, which
might include special speakers and grade-level assemblies to help the students feel connected to the
school as a whole. It is expected that clubs and activities will occur out of school time in person. Fall
athletics will have already begun.


Teachers will plan to make use of a variety of formative and summative assessments that will include
online platforms and other options. These assessments will help teachers to determine the needs of their
students and the ability to communicate concerns or issues with families and the appropriate support
services personnel.




                                                                                        9
FAQs

 1. Where can I find more information on the health and safety protocols that are being
    recommended in light of the Delta variant of the virus?


       ●   07-19-2021: American Academy of Pediatrics recommends a “layered approach to make
           school safe for all students, teachers, and staff.” The AAP’s guidance “includes a
           recommendation that everyone older than age 2 wear masks, regardless of vaccination
           status.”
       ●   07-27-2021: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) suggest a return to
           indoor mask-wearing in this CDC guidance, stating that the “CDC recommends universal
           indoor masking for all teachers, staff, students, and visitors to schools, regardless of
           vaccination status.”
       ●   07-30-2021: In collaboration with the Massachusetts Department of Public Health (MA
           DPH), the Commissioner of Education released this new guidance for PK-12 public
           schools. Governor Baker spoke in support of the Commissioner’s recommendation later in
           the day.


 2. The guidance from the AAP, the CDC, and the MDPH is inconsistent. What are the health and
    safety rules that MPS will follow in the upcoming school year?


    Governor Baker noted that Massachusetts has one of the highest vaccination rates in the country,
    which may account for the variation in the approach to back to school guidance. Marblehead’s
    vaccination rate is very high. Marblehead Public Schools have tried to consistently follow the
    guidance from the DESE and MDPH; in an effort to avoid confusion and keep students in school,
    we will continue to do so.


 3. Will MPS require additional physical distancing when we return to school?


                                                                                       10
   No. We will do our best to maintain maximum physical distances when eating, but there are no
   other physical distancing requirements for the upcoming school year. In most instances, we are
   able to maintain a three feet physical distance in our classrooms.


4. Is physical distancing still required at lunch time or when we are eating?


   In the new school year, everyone will return to in-person learning and remote learning is no
   longer an option. These changes increase pressure on existing space in our schools, making it
   more challenging to physically distance children when eating. Outside remains an excellent
   option for eating whenever possible.



   Children under the age of 12 are unvaccinated, and the new variants, breakthrough cases, and
   other unknowns make it important to increase physical distances during food consumption
   whenever possible. Inclement weather is one of our greatest challenges in schools, and our
   principals and educators will do their best to maintain greater physical distances when eating
   whenever possible.


   Building principals have been working with the Directors of Food Service and Facilities and will
   be sharing specific lunch plans with families at the building level.


5. Will there be assigned seating this year?


   Yes. Whenever possible, seats will be assigned, and we recommend keeping students in desks
   rather than tables for now. In some cases it may be necessary to use tables. We must continue
   our contact tracing efforts, so assigned seating in classrooms and on buses remains important.


6. My child is immunocompromised and in-person learning does not feel safe to me. Is there a
   remote option this year?


   Unfortunately, remote learning is no longer an option in the upcoming school year per the
   Commissioner of Education. Please refer to the DESE COVID-19 guidance issued on May 27,
   2021, page 4: Districts will no longer be able to offer remote learning as a standard learning
   model. As noted above, districts and schools will be required to be in-person, full-time, five days
   a week this fall.


                                                                                     11
   Pathways that existed prior to the pandemic for offering virtual learning to individual students in
   limited cases will remain available to districts and schools. These include home/hospital tutoring
   programs due to a documented medical condition, 3 single district virtual schools, and other
   narrow circumstances.


7. Will Marblehead Public Schools continue to participate in a SY22 COVID-19 testing program?


   Yes, it is an expanded program and we have been accepted into the program through a priority
   application process.




8. Will we ever get to attend school without strict health and safety measures in place?


   Yes! One way to get this pandemic behind us is by following our “do your part” recommendation
   and get fully vaccinated as soon as it is available to you and make sure you are not sending sick
   students to school.


9. Will masks be required on school buses?


   Yes. Passengers and drivers must wear a mask on school buses. In addition, all MPS school buses
   must have windows open at least 4 inches at all times. For more information, here is the CDC’s
   order.


10. What are the current travel restrictions? Will I be able to travel out of state without a
   quarantine?


   Massachusetts COVID-19 Travel Guidance suggests that if you are vaccinated there are no
   restrictions on domestic travel, and you can travel freely.



                                                                                     12
   Here are the CDC’s recommendations for unvaccinated people, including a viral test 3-5 days
   after and self-quarantine for a full 7 days after travel. Since children under the age of 12 are
   ineligible for a vaccine, we anticipate that many families will have questions about the rules. We
   ask all MPS families and staff to please follow the State’s travel guidance. Qualifying special
   conditions include serious family emergencies/illnesses, deaths, and custody arrangements. If you
   have questions, please contact your principal or school nurse.


11. If a student or staff member is sick and experiencing symptoms, such as fever, cough, runny
   nose, what should they do?


   School Personnel:


   Every day prior to coming to work staff will be asked to complete an attestation of wellness. If a
   staff member has any symptoms, they should call their supervisor and report the symptoms and
   stay home from school.


   Staff should follow up with their Health Care Provider for further evaluation and testing. They
   will be allowed to return to school based on their symptoms, further evaluation, and clearance
   from the Marblehead Health Dept/School Nurse. Staff who become ill while at school will be sent
   home immediately.




   Students and Families:


   Before coming to school or getting on the bus: Families should assess their child’s state of
   wellness before leaving home for school. It is expected that each family will assess each of their
   children every day for symptoms by using this checklist before the child comes to school.
   Here is the form for families to use to assess each of their children, every day before school.


   If the student has any symptoms of COVID-19, they should stay home from school. The family
   should notify their school nurse that the child will be absent and the reason for the absence. The
   school nurse will follow-up with the family regarding the child’s symptoms, when the child was
   seen by a medical professional and any testing that was done. The child can return to school once
   cleared by the school nurse and/or the Marblehead Board of Health.


                                                                                       13
                                                                                         Business Office
                                                                                         9 Widger Road,
                 MARBLEHEAD                                                              Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                                         phone: 781.639.3140
                 PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                                          fax: 781.639.3149




                                              MEMORANDUM

TO:              Marblehead School Committee
FROM:            Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent of Finance & Operations
                 Todd Bloodgood, Director of Facilities
CC:              John J. Buckey, Superintendent
DATE:            August 20, 2021
RE:              Bus Information and Fee Approval for the 2021-2022 School Year


As we approach the new school year, please find a summary of our student transportation plans and a
request to establish a bus fee for an optional bus program for students that live less than two miles from
school.


In accordance with MGL chapter 71, section 68, we will be transporting students in grades kindergarten
through six only. We do not offer any regular day transportation to Veterans Middle School and
Marblehead High School. Transportation will be offered free to any kindergarten through grade six
student that lives more than 2 miles away from their home school. This year we will be requiring ALL
students that will be riding the bus to be registered with us. This will be a new process for us. We will be
sending out an email to all families who live more than two miles away from school asking them to
register their students if they intend to ride the bus. It is important that we closely track the students that
we are transporting as we continue to follow COVID protocols. We will be once again keeping the bus
windows open to allow adequate air flow. Also, while on the bus students will be required to sit in
assigned seats and will be required to wear a mask.


This year we will also offer a pilot program of transporting a limited number of students who live less
than two miles from school for a fee. This program will be offered to students in grades kindergarten
through grade 6 only. Initially, we will be opening this pilot program up to a maximum of eight (8)
students with the hopes of being able to offer it to more students in the near future. We anticipate that
Memorandum: Bus Information and Fee Approval for the 2021-2022 School Year
Page 2



these students will primarily be located within the Bus 3 route which will cover the Old Town area of
Marblehead; however, this program is open to any area within the town.


It is recommended that this program will be offered on a first come-first serve basis and will have the fee
set at $250 per student and that there will be not be a reduced or waived fee as this is an optional program.
Registration of this optional program will be through an email to be sent to
transportation@marbleheadschools.org and will be open at a set day and time. Currently, we have
tentative plans to open the registration on Friday, August 27th at 9:00 am. We expect to be able to let
families know the same day if their student will be able to ride the bus this school year so as to give
families as much notice as possible.


School Committee will need to vote the fee for the optional program. The recommended motion is as
follows:


        Motion to approve the bus fee for the optional student transportation program in the amount of
        $250 per student for the 2021-2022 school year.
