Office of the Superintendent

MARBLEHEAD Dr. John J. Buckey
- 9 Widger Read,
PUBLIC SCHOOLS Marblehead, MA 01945
phone: 781.639.3140 x16
fax: 781.639.3149

Memo To: MPS School Committee

From: John J. Buckey
Re: Director of Student Services & MVMS Nurse Recommendations
Date: August 6, 2021

Director of Student Services

| convened a search committee comprised of the following representatives: Nan Murphy,
Assistant Superintendent, Meagan Taylor, School Committee, Merle Schell & Jennifer Jackson,
SEPAC, Matt Fox, MVMS Principal, Emily Dean, Student Services Liaison & Director of ELE,
Melissa Kaplowitch, Parent and Peg Slattery, Administrative Assistant to the Director of Student
Services. We received fourteen applications. On Wednesday, August 4 we met to review the
process and determine the best path forward for an Interim or Permanent Director. Given the
expedited nature of the search with the current Director’s impending departure, we made the
decision to interview two internal candidates for an Interim Director role. Nicole Grazado,
Special Education Team Chair at Village School and Paula Donnelly, Special Education Team
Chair at MHS were our candidates. Their resumes are included. They interviewed on Friday,
August 5. We are recommending Dr. Paula Donnelly for the interim Director of Student
Services position.

MVMS Nurse

| am including Matt Fox’s search process and recommendation Memo. | interviewed Cathy
Byrne, the recommended candidate on Friday, August 5. Her resume is included. She has

requested the weekend to consider the offer.

July 30, 2021
Dear Hiring Committee,

itis with great enthusiasm that | submit this letter of intent for the Director of Student Services ai the
Marblehead Public Schools. My professional goal is to bring equity to students of different abilities, from
when | started as a Special Education teacher to my current role as Special Education Chairperson at
Village School. | am excited to bring my passion and collaborative style to even more administrators,
educators and students across the district as director. | am grateful for the opportunity to share my vision,
skills and commitment to education for all learners, with the support of my colleagues.

| began my career in education after an impactful service project teaching literacy to adults when | worked
in finance communications. That experience helped me craft my professional vision that all individuals can
and want to learn. Coupled with a steadfast commitment to students’ rights, I'm consistently drawn to
positions that call for advocacy, compassion and commitment. As | progress in my career, | choose roles
that provide me with opportunities to hone each of these pillars of my professional identity. My work is to
promote student agency across general education and special education domains. Collaborating with our
district's administrators, | feel prepared to take this next professional step as Director of Student Services.

| have been fortunate to teach a variety of classrooms across grades 7 through 12. As a teacher, | learned
the importance of understanding learning barriers for students and adults. Since then, | continually work to
dismantle those barriers and collaboratively build rich and inclusive settings for growth. I’ve promoted
opportunities to students working on transition skills, created multidisciplinary lessons to ensure access for
all and developed strategies for universal curriculum materials. Every teaching task of mine has been
rooted in ensuring student success.

When | began leadership work, | learned the importance of listening and understanding different
perspectives to facilitate collaboration for individual student and school success. Everyone plays a role in
the ideal community for student success. Tapping into that community encourages optimal student
participation in the classroom. In my work, | strive to meet people where they are and help them define and
commit to their personal growth. Their successes are our district's successes. | am excited to bring a more
proactive approach to programs that build up our students and will make the district a leader in Special
Education.

| remain committed to the initiatives that we have prioritized for our district and hope that you will see my
passion and commitment outlined in my application as full engagement toward a common vision. Thank
you for considering my candidacy.

Sincerely,
Nicole Grazado

Nicole Grazado 38

Nicole Grazado

Education

Lesley University

Cambridge, Massachusetts

Master of Education

Major: Teaching Children with Special Needs
GPA: 4.000

Attended September 1997 to August 2000
Degree conferred August 2000

McGill University

Montreal, Canada

Bachelor of Arts

Major: Human Geography

GPA: 3.030

Attended September 1991 to May 1994
Degree conferred May 1994

Experience

Marblehead Public Schools Jul 2011 - Present
Special Education Team Chairperson

Marblehead

« Collaborate with building administrators on implementation of District inclusion procedures

* Supervise 25 staff members, overseeing 165 cases to optimize Special Education services

« Recruit, develop and retain staff for equitable and inclusive practices across classrooms

* Evaluate and implement appropriate classroom and equipment needs across facilities

« Manage the evaluation and eligibility process for individual students at the building level

+ Plan and implement comprehensive service delivery models using the Team Process to support
inclusive and compliant practices

« Structure and promote multi-tiered systems of support for all students

+ Consistently communicate with families at the individual student level to support teams

« Evaluate and assess practices to ensure they remain research-based and equitable to reach all
different types of learners

* Consult with outside providers to ensure consistent practices for students across home and school
* Work with district administrators for effective and thoughtful transition of students between schools

Supervisor: Eric oor ae
Experience Type: Public School, Full-time
It is OK to contact this employer

Swampscott Public Schools Sep 2009 - Jun 2011
Special Education Content Leader
Swampscott, Massachusetts

Nicole Grazado 39

« Participated in weekly building administrative team meetings
+ Facilitated department meetings for special education staff at the High School
* Coordinated accommodations for MCAS testing for students with disabilities
+ Planned and facilitated co-teaching assignments for special education staff scheduling
, * Reviewed IEPs written by High School staff for content and compliance
_ * Scheduled and coordinated in-service trainings and support for Educational Support Professionals
~ across the department
+ Served on the building’s student support team
* Co-chaired the NEASC Accreditation Self-Study Committee
* Coordinated the implementation of the Keys to Literacy Reading Comprehension professional
development initiative

Reason for leaving: Professional growth opportunity
Spero
Experience Type: Public School, Full-time

itis OK to contact this employer

Swampscott Public Schools Sep 1989 - Jun 2011
Special Education Teacher

Swampscoit, Massachusetts

«Provided direct instruction, evaluation and service for student with disabilities in grades 7-12

*Co-taught academic courses at the high school level

*Served on the Student Support Team, providing solutions for students in crisis

«Assessed students as part of the evaluation and determination process

«Developed transitional plans for post middle and high school objectives

*Coordinated and supported curriculum modification to ensure access for all students

Reason for leaving: Professional growth opportunit
Sper sc: ccc
Experience Type: Public School, Fuli-time

It is OK to contact this employer

Nicole Grazado 40

Dear Assistant Superintendent Cresta and members of the Hiring Committee,

| have had the pleasure of working at Marblehead High School as the Team Chairperson for the last two
school years which were, of course, significantly disrupted by the pandemic. Despite the sudden and
radical shift in our practices, | provided leadership not only in the provision of special education services,
but also in spearheading a significant paradigm shift towards improving inclusive practices to further
promote equity and inclusion throughout the school. | would look forward to continuing to lead and support
this work at the district level as the Director of Student Services.

While my time in Marblehead has been relatively short, | believe | have developed a balance of institutional
knowledge and a fresh perspective on existing practices and structures. | have quickly developed trusting,
working relationships across all departments; these relationships have fostered a collaborative culture that
have allowed for increased co-teaching partnerships, increased inclusion placements for students with
disabilities, and a significant decrease in our sub-separate program enrollment. | have also taken significant
and tangible steps to address the disproportionate representation of students of color in special education.
The upcoming schoo! year will bring a marked change in the provision of curriculum support services, for
which | collaborated with school and district leadership and received the expressed support of SEPAC and
School Committee.

For the last eleven years, serving as a school-based special education administrator has prepared me well
for this role. | have served as the chairperson/administrative designee charged with assigning services,
facilitating initial, annuai, and reevaluation meetings, and evaluating special education personnel in multiple
schools, in programs ranging from PK - 22. In addition to extensive experience with all aspects of the IEP
development process across the full IDEA continuum, | am well-versed in all aspects of special education,
Section 504, and Title IX regulations and guidelines. This includes my independent completion of all
aspects of a DESE Coordinated Program Review for Bentley Academy Charter School (2017-18), including
compiling and/or authoring all documents of the self-assessment, preparing staff for on-site interviews, and
submission of annual indicator data. My experience as a coordinator for transitions from early intervention
services as children turn three, included establishing new systemic processes and working collaboratively
with Early Intervention and community-based providers.

My teaching experience focused on the education of students with emotional or behavioral disorders. As a
graduate of one of the few Master's programs in the country designed specifically to support these
students, | am uniquely positioned to support the social and emotional well-being of all students, inform
program planning, and address the mental health crisis intensified by Covid-19. My background with this
population also lends itself to significant experience with complex, sometimes litigious cases, in which | am
readily able to manage various stakeholders. My current and former colleagues and supervisors would
agree that | have a well-developed sense of balancing parent requests with student needs; an essential
quality in this community-facing role.

The on-going “return to normal” must be matched by plans that do not just recognize the breadth and depth
of student and family needs, but with innovation that addresses that what was “normal” was not accessible
for many students and their families. | would look forward to continuing this important work as the Director
of Student Services. Thank you for your consideration.

Paula Donnelly 83

Paula Donnelly

Education

Boston University

Boston, Massachusetts

Doctor of Education

Major: Special Education

Attended September 2008 to March 2018
Degree conferred May 2018

George Washington University

Washington, District of Columbia

Master of Arts

Major: Education and Human Development, Minor: Education for Students
with E/BD

GPA: 3.950

Credit Hours: 39

Attended July 2000 to August 2001

Degree conferred August 2001

Mercyhurst College

Erie, Pennsylvania

Bachelor of Arts

Major: Psychology

GPA: 3.350

Credit Hours: 120

Attended September 1997 to May 1999
Degree conferred May 1999

State University of New York at Geneseo
Geneseo, New York

College Coursework - no degree

Major: History, Biology

Attended September 1995 to May 1997

Experience

Marblehead Public Schools Jul 2019 - Present

Special Education Team Chairperson

Marblehead, MA

¢ Facilitate, coordinate and supervise all aspects of initial, annual, re-evaluation Team meetings and
IEE reviews in accordance with state and federal regulations.

« Serve as part of the building leadership team to promote collaboration between all staff to ensure
students with disabilities are duly considered in building-level planning.

¢ Establish expectations within the department to ensure ongoing emphasis on inclusive practices,
including through support and promotion of co-teaching practices and embedding SEL in all
classrooms.

Paula Donnelly 34

« Review/establish protocols regarding the interface between regular and special education support
models (e.g. MTSS).

« Formally observe and evaluate special education teachers, general education teachers, and support
staff.

* Collaborate with building principal on allocation of resources, both monetary and staff, in order to meet
projected and evolving needs of students.

Supervisor: Eric Oxford
Experience Type: Public School, Full-time
It is OK to contact this employer

Boxford Public Schools Aug 2018 - Jun 2019
Special Education Coordinator
Boxford, MA

* Facilitated, coordinated and supervised all aspects of initial, annual, re-evaluation Team meetings and
IEE reviews in accordance with state and federal regulations.

* Participated in district and Tri-Town School Union leadership team meetings to promote collaboration
between general and special education and communicate the interests/needs of special education
students and staff to ensure their needs are duly considered in district-level planning.

* Worked with building principal to plan, implement and monitor various special education
programs/models, as well as plan/review protocols regarding the interface between regular and
special education support models (i.¢. RTI, tiered instruction, Child Study Teams).

¢ Collaborated with building principal on allocation of resources, both monetary and staff, in order to
meet projected and evolving needs of students.

¢ Plan and implement training for special education paraprofessionals.

Reason for leaving: Seeking a position across wider range of grade levels.
Supervisor: Saas

Experience Type: Public School, Full-time
It is OK to contact this employer

Salem Public Schools Aug 2011 - Aug 2018
Special Education Team Chairperson

Salem, MA

- Facilitated team meetings for annual reviews, initial / re-evaluations, and other special
education-related meetings at elementary and secondary schools, including El transitions and public day
school.

- Oversaw and assisted in the development of Individualized Education Programs (IEPs).

- Participated in educational support teams, including pre-referral teams.

- Coordinated special education services among teachers and related service providers.

- Facilitated collaboration among regular education teachers and special educators and
paraprofessionals

- Assisted in the monitoring and compliance of state and federal regulations, including the independent
completion of a DESE CPR for a Horace Mann charter school.

Reason for leaving: Due to change in leadership, | was interested in exploring different opportunities in
different districts.

Supervisor:

Experience Type: Public School, Full-time

It is OK to contact this employer

Paula Donnelly 35

Boston University, Sargent College Sep 2008 - May 2012
Project Manager

Boston, MA

Manage all aspects of longitudinal study on autism and family caregiving. Responsible for supervision of
data collection, data entry, and ensuring reliability of all data.

Reason for leaving: Research study was completed.
Supervisor:

Experience Type: Other, Part-time

It is OK to contact this employer

George Washington University, GSEHD Aug 2007 - May 2008
Graduate Assistant

Washington, DC

Supported rebranding of Special Education Doctoral program, including research on educational
neuroscience and disability studies.

Reason for leaving: Relocated to Massachusetts/ransferred to Boston University
Supervisor:

Experience Type: Other, Part-time

It is OK to contact this employer

Marblehead Veterans Middle School Aug 2006 - Jun 2007
Therapeutic Program Teacher

Marblehead, MA 01945

Served as case manager for eighth grade students through coordination of services, IEP writing and
implementation, consultation with social workers and specialists, and formal assessmenis.

Reason for leaving: Began full-time doctoral program

Sup: 1101: Ea aa
Experience Type: Public School, Full-time
It is OK to contact this employer

Swampscott Public Schools Aug 2003 - Jun 2006
Secondary Inclusion Specialist

Swampscott, MA 01907

‘Trained and supervised Educational Support Professionals working with inclusion students and served
as case manager for secondary students with autism spectrum disorders.

«Consulted with administrators, general and special educators on at-risk and behaviorally challenged
students to observe, make recommendations, or provide direct services.

Reason for leaving: Return to classroom teaching to prepare for Ed.D. program

Supervisor: iD
Experience Type: Public School, Full-time

lt is OK to contact this employer

or ee Sees

Charles County Public Schools Aug 2001 - Jun 2003

Paula Donnelly 36

Special Education Teacher

LaPlata, MD 20646

Special Education teacher in self-contained secondary emotional disabilities program (2001-2002) and
elementary resource room (2002-2008).

Reason for leaving: Relocated to Massachusetts
Supervisor:

Experience Type: Public School, Full-time

It is OK to contact this employer

Fairfax County Public Schools Aug 2000 - Jun 2001
Student Intern

Marshall Road Center, Vienna, VA

Completed a full year of student teaching in self-contained EBD program under the supervision of FCPS
staff and George Washington University faculty.

Reason for leaving: Graduat

Supervisor:

Experience Type: Student Teaching, Full-time
It is OK to contact this employer

Community Experience
Cape Ann Youth Lacrosse, Volunteer Head Coach, Spring 2018 - present

Human Rights Committee, May Institute, May 2010 - May 2012

Swampscott Nahant Youth Lacrosse, Board Member ex-oficio, 2010 - 2015

Girls Varsity Lacrosse Coach, Swampscott High School, Swampscott, MA 2005-2007; 2009
. 3007 MIAA Team Sportsmanship Award

- 2007 Lynn Daily Item Coach of the Year

Girls Varsity Lacrosse Coach, Matignon High School, Cambridge, MA 2004

Paula Donnelly 37
MARBLEHEAD PUBLIC SCHOOLS ~
Marblehead Veterans Middle School

Duncan Sleigh Square
217 Pleasant Street
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945

781-639-3120 Fax: 781-639-3130

To: John Buckey
From: Matt Fox
Date: July 29, 2021
Re: School Nurse

Dates: Our Nurse position was posted on June 22", We conducted interviews on July 19" and July 20"
Applicants: We received seven applications

Interview Committee:

The interview committee was: comprised off
Matt Fox, Principal

Julia Ferreira, Assistant Principal

Deanna MeMahori, Lead Nurse

Emily Barron, School Committee Member
Jae Guttadauro, Spanish Teacher

Elizabeth Lutwak, Librarian

Interviews:

We invited six of the seven applicants for a Zoom Scteening interview, one withdrew from the search and
one did not return our messages, so we interviewed four candidates for the first round. Of those four
candidates, we invited back two for in-person interviews.

Recommendation:
We decided to send just one candidate up as a finalist, Cathy Byrne.

Background. and feedback:

Ms, Bytne has a solid background in both hospital and school settings. Most recently, she has. been a school
nurse in the Chelsea Public Schools. Prior to that, she served asa school nurse for the Lawrence. Public
Schools. In hospital settings, Ms, Byrne has. been a nurse at Saint Joseph’s Hospital in Nashua, NH. She.
worked. in the cardiopulmonary rehabilitation center as well as in the emergency room, oncology, mental
health unit, and the surgical unit.

References: ;

T spoke with a former nurse colleague and a teacher colleague too, Descriptions from both phone calls
included, “extremely organized” “Kind and thoughtful” and “Great communicator.” Her former nurse
colleague spoke about how willing and open Ms. Byrne was to commiunicate with other nutses, and often
shaved resources and information. Additionally, the teacher 1 spoke with had a very personal experience with
Ms. Byrne, and credits her medical expertise with preventing a very serious medical condition from
progtessing, even though her doctor said she was fine, Both references would jump at the chance to work
with Ms. Byrne again. ‘

Dear Human Resources Department,

i am submitting my application for the School Nurse position. | am confident that | can make a great
contribution to the safety and care of your students, staff and community.

Outlined below are some of my experience/skills that will add value to your nursing team:

~§chool Nursing experience (COVID Testing, BinaxNow Rapid Testing, District COVID Coordinator for all
Middie Schools, ~EMR, Diabetes Management, Seizure Disorders, IMMs, SBIRT, etc.)

~Vaccine Clinic experience

~Emergency Room nursing experience (Trauma Emergency Unit)

~Proven ability to work effectively within a team environment

~Additional experience in patient care (pediatrics, cardiology, diabetes, pulmonology, gastrointestinal, and
triage skills)

~Ability to adapt to changes quickly and effectively to meet the needs of the students and staff

~Ability to work with people at all levels in an organization

~Multitasking skills where several projects were managed simultaneously

~Keep abreast of current trends and technology through continuing education

If you would like to further discuss how | can add value to your district, please contact me at
Thank you for your time, attention, and careful
consideration.

Sincerely,

Cathy Byrne, MBA, BSN, RN

Cathy Byrne

TE he ‘Cathy B rne, MBA; BSN;-RN, EP . oid Lams are

WORK EXPERIENCE:

RN Public School Nurse : 7/2020-Present

City of Chelsea, Chelsea MA

Provided high-quality care for students during the school day within a middle school environment. Provided
education, resources and support about COVID-19 for families, staff and students. Organized and coordinating
COVID Pooled Testing for all middle schools in the districts, along with Bionex Now COVID testing follow up
testing, Leader within the public school system for health policy implementation and advocacy. Supported
administration with expert knowledge on development of sexual health education and physical education
curriculum. Organized and maintained files on all students (immunizations and health concerns). Participated
in advisory meetings with school administration and parents providing expertise and oversight as a health
advocate. Maintained open office hours for students in order to diagnose and treat minor injuries and illnesses.
Offered referral services to doctors when appropriate.

RN Public School Nurse ; 9/17-6/30/2020

Lawrence Public School, Lawrence MA

Provided high-quality care for students during the school day within a middle school and elementary
environment with occasional high school nursing environment. Leader within the public school system for
health policy implementation and advocacy. Supported administration with expert knowledge on development
of sexual health education and physical educatior: curriculum. Organized and maintained files on all students
(immunizations and health concerns). Participated in advisory meetings with school administration and parents
providing expertise and oversight as a health advocate. Maintained open office hours for students in order to
diagnose and treat minor injuries and illnesses. Offered referral services to doctors when appropriate.

RN Per Diem: Day Surgery/Endoscopy 9/16-1/2018

Elliot at Rivers Edge, Manchester, NH

Pre-op and Post-Op. Obtained history, patient’s development status, behavior, cultural, and health concerns from .
patient and family. Examined patients to obtain objective physical data, Assessed clinical data from diagnostic
studies and previous records. Completed physical and psychosocial assessment based on interview, examiriation
and review of clinical data, Identified nursing diagnoses and patient care problems. Documented data and
assessment on appropriate form according to instructions. Collaborated with the multidisciplinary team to
address patient needs.

RN: Cardiopulmonary Rehabilitation/Emergency Room/Med-Surg/Psych Unit = 7/11-8/17
Saint Joseph Hospital, Nashua, NH

CR/PR: Case management, implemented and monitored exercise programs for cardiac and pulmonary patients. Col-
laborated with other health care team members to execute effective care plans while ensuring positive health out-
comes. Provided on going individual education on various medical conditions and medications. Provided continual
psychosocial support and advocacy fo patients and families.

Performed nursing care in various settings, including Emergency Room, Cardiac, Oncology, Orthopedics, Mental
Health, Medical & Surgical units, Assessing, planning, implementing and evaluating nursing care from simple to
complex, with multi-system issues in a safe and therapeutic environment, Engage in caring relationships with patient
and families and work collaboratively with other health care workers, while using sound judgement to perform
nursing and medical interventions. Adhered to specialty standards and organizational standards, policies, procedures,
guidelines and protocols. Participated in supervision of Licensed Nursing Assistants and unlicensed personnel.

RN Per Diem Float Pool: Triage, Pediatric, Family Practice, General Internal Med 10/15-3/18
Dartmouth Hitchcock Clinic, Nashua NH

Priotitized and triaged all calls for high volume, fast-paced medical office; implementing strict triage policy protocols
to seamlessly facilitate home care advice, coordination of future care needs, specialty care intervention, and
elevation of serious situations to the ER.

“Cathy Byme vacTR IEEE lew . Swine ios Lo. . RIS.

RN Per Diem: Day Surgery/Endoscepy + 9/14-10/15
Dartmouth Hitchcock Clinic, Nashua NH

Obtained history, patient’s development statis, behavior, cultural, and health concerns from patient and family.
Examined patients to obtain objective physical data. Assessed clinical data from diagnostic studies and previous
records. Completed physical and psychosocial assessment based on interview, examination and review of
clinical data. Identified mursing diagnoses and patient care problems, Documented data and assessment on
appropriate form according to instructions. Collaborated with the multidisciplinary team to address patient
needs. :

RN Part Time: Cardiology : 3/12-9/14
Dartmouth Hitchcock Clinic, Nashua, NH

Outpatient Cardiac Care. Conducted TEE/Stress test, telephone triage, patient assessments, holter monitoring
reading, blood pressure checks, medication reconciliation and patient care

RN Surgical Specialties 3/11-12/12
Concord Hospital, Concord, NH

Assessed, planned, implemented and evaluated nursing care from simple to complex, with multi-system issues
in a safe and therapeutic environment. Engaged in caring relationships with patient and families and work
collaboratively with other health care workers, while using sound judgement to perform nursing and medical
interventions. Adhered to organizational standards, policies, procedures, guidelines and protocols.

EDUCATION:
Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences (MCPHS), School of Nursing, Manchester, NH
Bachelor of Science in Nursing 12/10
Daniel Webster College, School of Business, Nashua, NH
Master of Business Administration, Applied Management 12/08
Lasell College, Newton, MA
Bachelor of Science, Exercise Physiology (Concentration in Cardiac Rehabilitation) 5/99
Associate of Science, Physical Therapy 12/97
MEMBERSHIPS/CERTIFICATIONS/LICENSES:
NH Board of Nursing Registered Nurse, License Number 063993-21 9/1/22.
MA Board of Nursing Registered Nurse License Number RN2270291 9/1/22
First Aid/AED/CPR Certified. American Red Cross 6/22
DESE License (Department of Elementary and Secondary EducationMTEL 3/23
TNCC (Trauma Nursing Core Certified) 713-718
BLS for Healthcare Providers (CPR & AED) 5/11-5/21
ACLS for Healthcare Providers 2/12-2/18
PALs for Healthcare Providers 9/13-9/15
NASN (National Association of School Nursing) 2/18-present
ENA (Emergency Room Nursing Association) 9/2012~present
PCNA (Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association) 11/2013-present
Certified Cardiographic Technician (CCT) from Cardiovascular Credentialing International (CCI) 5/98-present
NH Society for Cardiopulmonary Rehabilitations 9/2014~present
President of Nursing Students Without Borders (NSWB) at MCPHS 9/09-12/10

SOFTWARE SKILLS: Windows, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Mac OS X, Pages, Keynotes, Numbers, EPIC, EMR, Health
Master and PowerSchool, Health Office Anywhere, SNAP, ASPEN X2,

