Cover photograph taken in the early 1900’s, showing the Boston to Maine Railroad Depot,
Pleasant Street. Built in 1889, razed in 1959. Today, the National Grand Bank and Miller’s
Plaza are located at this site.

Photograph courtesy of Warren Perry, from his personal collection of pictures.
        ANNUAL
     TOWN REPORT
    OF THE YEAR 2009



MARBLEHEAD, MASSACHUSETTS
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Board of Selectmen                               3
Warrant for Annual Town Meeting                  6
May 4, 2009 and Annual
Town Election May 11, 2009
Results of Annual Town Meeting                 32
May 4, 2009
Results of Annual Town Election                88
May 11, 2009
Warrant for Special Election                   92
June 22, 2009
Results of Special Election                    94
June 22, 2009
Warrant for Special State Primary              96
December 8, 2009
Results for Special State Primary              98
December 8, 2009
Officials Elected                               99
Officials Appointed                            102
Vital Records of 2009 - # of births,           114
marriages, deaths and causes of death
Department Reports:
Abbot Public Library                           117
Board of Assessors                             120
Board of Health                                122
Building Commissioner and Inspectional         135
Services
Cable TV Oversight Committee                   137
Cemetery Department                            138
Conservation Commission                        140
Council on Aging                               142
Department of Public Works                     145
Engineering Department                         147
Financial Services                             149
Fire Department                                152
Fort Sewall Oversight Committee                166
Harbors and Waters                             167
Marblehead Cultural Council                    169
Marblehead Historical Commission               173




                                         1
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Marblehead Housing Authority                  175
Metropolitan Area Planning Council            184
Municipal Light Department                    186
Old and Historic Districts Commission         193
Planning Board                                195
Police Department                             198
Recreation, Parks & Forestry                  204
Sealer of Weights & Measures                  213
Shellfish Constables                          214
Task Force Against Discrimination             215
Tree Warden                                   218
Veterans’ Agent                               219
Water and Sewer Commission                    220
Zoning Board of Appeals                       229
School Reports                                230
Marblehead School Committee members           230
organization and meetings
Admission Requirements                        230
No School Announcement/School Hours           231
Superintendent of Schools                     231
Marblehead School Committee Report            234
Administration, Faculty and Staff             238
2009 MCAS Summary                             253
Scholastic Aptitude Test Scores (SAT)         259
5 year history
Marblehead High School Class of 2009          260
Enrollment Summaries                          263
Town Warrant – Annual Town Meeting            265
May 3, 2010




                                   2
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                         BOARD OF SELECTMEN

The Board of Selectmen meets on the second and fourth Wednesday of each month
at 7:30 PM in the Selectmen’s Meeting Room in Abbot Hall. All meetings are open
to the public. The board is composed of five members, each elected annually.
Members of the Board of Selectmen are Chairman Jackie Belf-Becker, Harry C.
Christensen Jr., Judith R. Jacobi, James E. Nye and William L. Woodfin II.

Repairs to the harbor side seawall repair were completed this year. The repairs
included, spall and crack repairs to existing concrete seawall, mortar joint repairs to
existing granite block seawall, applying concrete sealer over concrete seawall
surface, installation of new catch basin hoods, and repairs to existing patches on
existing concrete seawall.

In 2009 the Selectmen granted a license to Verizon to construct and operate an
additional cable television system in the town.

The town received a grant from the Massachusetts Historic Commission’s
Preservation Fund to develop a master plan for the restoration and preservation of
Old Burial Hill. The selectmen created and appointed an Old Burial Hill Oversight
committee to assist with this effort.

With Town Meeting approved funding, as well as assistance from the Historical
Commission the town was able to undertake significant work in Abbot Hall
including the re-pointing of the interior masonry, new windows on the upper floor
and restoration of the main doors.

The board reactivated the sister city relationship between Grasse, France and the
Town of Marblehead. Grasse, France is a coastal community located in the
southeast of France. The original sister city relationship was established in 1986.

Annual perambulation of town ways was held on May 16 this year. This is an
annual event sponsored by the Board for Selectman and the Marblehead
Conservancy to publicize the town ways by making the public aware of the
existence and location of the ways.

As the local licensing authority, the selectmen renewed and/or issued the following
licenses concerning its licensed serving establishments:




                                          3
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Annual All Alcoholic Restaurant – (15)
Annual All Alcoholic – Package Store – (5)
Annual All Alcoholic Fraternal Club – (3)
Annual All Alcoholic Club – (3)
Season All Alcoholic Club – (2)
Annual Wine & Malt – Package – (1)
Annual Wine & Malt Restaurant (7 Day) – (3)
Annual Common Victualler – (40)
Annual Entertainment – (18)
Sunday Entertainment – (14)
Second Hand Dealers - (14)
Automatic Amusement Device – (15)
Annual Auto Class II – (1)
Annual Lodging – (3)
Underground storage tanks (19)

As the appeal board for Old and Historic Districts Commission the board of
selectmen heard one appeal in 2009 at 17 Middle Street.

In 2009 the Board of Selectmen mourned the passing of several town volunteers and
employees; William Doane, Local Building Inspector, Maureen Devaux, former
Council on Aging board member, Dexter Gillis, Cemetery Commissioner, Sign
Culler and Traffic Safety Committee member and Robert Orne former Dog Officer.

In 2009 several long-term employees retired including Fire Chief Barry Dixie, Tom
Hamond Director of Recreation and Parks and Tree Warden and Douglas Saal,
Town Engineer.

The board was pleased to appoint Jason Gilliland as the new Fire Chief, William
Lanphear to replace Douglas Saal and Douglas Gordon as Tree Warden.

The board appreciates and thanks the many volunteers throughout the Town
government and local philanthropic organizations that devote substantial amounts of
their time working for the benefit of Marblehead as well as all of those who
contributed financially to the various funds established for the benefit of the Town.

The board also thanks Anthony M. Sasso, Town Administrator; Rebecca Curran,
Town Planner; and the office staff Deborah Fadden, Kyle Wiley and Jane Tricomi
for all their assistance this past year and extend our best wishes and thanks to the all




                                           4
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


of the citizens of the Town of Marblehead whom we faithfully and conscientiously
strive to represent.

Marblehead Forever!

Faithfully yours,


Jackie Belf-Becker, Chairman
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
Judith R. Jacobi
James E. Nye
William L. Woodfin, II




                                       5
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
County of Essex, ss
to Any Constable in the Town of Marblehead
Greeting:

         You are hereby required and directed in the name of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts to warn and give notice to the inhabitants of
Marblehead, qualified to vote in elections and in town affairs, to meet at the
Marblehead Veterans Middle School Auditorium, Duncan Sleigh Square, 217
Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA, on Monday, the fourth day of May next A.
D. 2009 (it being the first Monday in May) at 7:45 o’clock in the afternoon to act on
the following articles in the Warrant for said meeting as follows:

Article 1 Articles in Numerical Order
To see if the Town will vote to adopt an order requiring articles in the Warrant to be
taken up in their numerical order, as requested by the Selectmen.

Article 2 Reports of Town Officers and Committees
To receive the report of the Town Accountant, the reports of the Town Officers, and
special Committees and act thereon.

Article 3 Lease Town Property
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to let or
lease such land, buildings or structures owned by the Town on such terms as they
may determine, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board
of Selectmen.

Article 4 Accept Trust Property
To see if the Town will vote to accept certain trust property, gifts or grants to be
administered by the Town or modify the terms thereof, or take any other action
relative thereto, as sponsored by Town Counsel.

Article 5 Assume Liability
To see if the Town will assume liability in the manner provided by Section 29 of
Chapter 91 of the General Laws, for all damages that may be incurred by work to be
performed by the Massachusetts Highway Department for the improvement,
development, maintenance and protection of tidal and non tidal rivers and streams,
harbors, tidewaters, foreshores and shores along a public beach in accordance with
Section 11 of Chapter 91 of the General Laws and authorize the Selectmen to




                                          6
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


execute and deliver a bond of indemnity therefor to the Commonwealth, or take any
other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 6 Unpaid Accounts
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of
money to provide for the payment of any unpaid accounts brought forward from
previous years, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Director.

Article 7 Payment in Lieu of Tax (“PILOT”) Agreement
To vote to approve the payment in lieu of Tax (“PILOT”) Agreement between the
Town of Marblehead and Adventcare, Inc. with respect to the property known as the
Lafayette Rehabilitation and Skilled Nursing Facility and located at 25 Lafayette
Street, Marblehead, Massachusetts. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen and the
Board of Assessors.

Article 8 Available Funds Appropriate to Meet State Aid Revenue Cuts
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate the free cash balance in the hands of the
Town Treasurer sufficient to offset the reductions in fiscal year 2009 state aid
revenue, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Director.

Article 9 Reductions in Fiscal 2009 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what amounts of money the Town will reduce from existing fiscal year 2009
appropriations to be reduced from amounts appropriated in Article 44 of the May
2008 Annual Town Meeting in order to address the reductions in the fiscal year
2009 state aid revenue or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Finance Director.

Article 10 Proposed Establishment of Other Post Employment Benefits
Liability Trust Fund
To see if the Town will vote to accept the provisions of Chapter 479 of the Acts of
2008. Sponsored by the Finance Director.

Article 11 Walls and Fences
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for the
construction and reconstruction of walls and fences for the protection of highways
and property, including engineering services in connection therewith; to authorize
the appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or
otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefor; to determine whether this




                                         7
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 12 Transfer of a portion of the unexpended proceeds of Seawall
Project Bond Anticipation Notes to Village School Project
To see if the Town will vote to transfer a portion of the unexpended proceeds of
outstanding bond anticipation notes that the Town issued pursuant to the vote of the
Town passed May 9, 2007 (Article 52), which vote appropriated and authorized a
borrowing of $8,700,000 for the construction and/or reconstruction of the Ocean
Avenue Causeway, to finance costs associated with the architectural, project
management, and construction of the Village School project as authorized by the
vote of the Town passed May 5, 2008 (Article 39), which vote appropriated and
authorized a borrowing $21,766,993 for such project, and to reduce the amount
authorized to be borrowed pursuant to such vote by the amount of such transfer; or
to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Director.

Article 13 Revolving Funds
To see if the Town will vote to authorize various revolving funds as required by
M.G.L. c 44 s.53E ½, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 14 Fiscal 2009 School Budget Additional Appropriation
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of
money to fund additional expenses of the fiscal 2009 school budget, said sum to be
added to Article 44, Item 101, Schools, as voted at Town Meeting in May 2008, or
take any action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 15 Water and Sewer Commission Claims
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the
Board of Selectmen acting jointly to compromise any claims for damages or suits
pending against the Town of Marblehead on account of acts which may have
occurred during the construction of the water, sewer and storm water system or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 16 Storm Drainage Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the construction or
reconstruction of sewers for surface drainage purposes, and to authorize the
appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise,




                                         8
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


any land or easements necessary therefor, and to raise the money for such purposes
by the issue of bonds or notes or in any other manner, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 17 Sewer Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction or reconstruction of sewers for
sanitary purposes and for sewerage disposal, pump stations, original pumping
equipment, metering equipment, safety equipment, replacement of said equipment,
engineering, consultants, surveys, including revenue studies and other general
Sewer Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or
easements necessary to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 18 Water Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction, reconstruction and extending of
water mains, replacement of water meters, appurtenances, engineering, consultants,
surveys including revenue studies and other general Water Department purposes,
and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by
purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements necessary to take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 19 Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
To see if the Town will raise and appropriate any sums of money for the purchase of
equipment for the several departments of the Town; to authorize the Board of
Selectmen to trade old equipment as part of the purchase price; to determine
whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Committee.

Article 20 Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for
remodeling, reconstructing and making extraordinary repairs to existing Town
buildings and purchase necessary equipment including computer hardware and
software to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or
otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen.




                                        9
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Article 21 Sidewalks
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 162 Article III Section 162-9 of the
Bylaw which now reads, “No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any
snow and/or ice on or against a fire hydrant or on any sidewalk or roadway.” To be
revised as follows:
Omit section 162-9 in its entirety and replace as follows:
Section 162-9 A. Purpose
To protect the health and safety of the citizens of Marblehead by requiring snow
removal from sidewalks and in particular to assist school children, the elderly, and
the general public from having to walk in the street or be injured on snow-filled
sidewalks.
Section 162-9 B. Prohibition
No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any snow and/or ice on or against a
fire hydrant or on any sidewalk or roadway. This prohibition includes the
requirement that property owners remove snow from their bordering and adjacent
sidewalks, including curb cuts, within six hours after the snow ceases to fall if it
ceases to fall in the daytime and before 12:00 noon if it ceases to fall in the
nighttime.
Section 162-9 C. Penalty
Who so ever is found in violation of this Bylaw shall be fined $25.00 for each
offense. Every day that the sidewalk and adjacent areas remain unclear shall
constitute a separate offense. The Building Commissioner and the Police
Department shall enforce this Bylaw. Any appeal hereunder shall be taken to the
Clerk of the District Court as set forth in G.L. c. 40 §21D or take any action relative
thereto. Sponsored by Judith Bocock and others.

Article 22 Collective Bargaining (Fire)
To see if the Town will, pursuant to G.L. c. 150E §7, vote to appropriate the sums
of money sufficient to fund the collective bargaining agreement for fiscal year 2010
with the International Association of Firefighters AFL/CIO CLC Local 2043, or
take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 23 Collective Bargaining (Police)
To see if the Town will, pursuant to G.L. c. 150E §7, vote to appropriate the sums
of money sufficient to fund the collective bargaining agreement for fiscal year 2010
with Town of Marblehead Police Officers Union, or take any action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.




                                         10
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Article 24 Collective Bargaining (IUE/CWE – Local 1776)
To see if the Town will, pursuant to G.L. c. 150E §7, vote to appropriate the sums
of money sufficient to fund the collective bargaining agreement for fiscal year 2010
with Local 1776 of the IUE/CWE, or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by
the Board of Selectmen.

Article 25 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Administrative)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Administrative Pay Schedule; to strike out the pay schedule
as it relates to Administrative personnel, substitute in place thereof the following
new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of
money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 26 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Seasonal and
Temporary Personnel)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Seasonal and Temporary Personnel Pay Schedules; strike out
the pay schedules as they relate to seasonal and temporary personnel, substitute in
place thereof the following new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds
and/or appropriate a sum of money to make said new pay schedules effective, or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 27 Pay Schedule and Reclassification (Traffic Supervisors)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Traffic Supervisors Pay Schedule; to waive the pay schedule
as it relates to Traffic Supervisor personnel, substitute in place thereof the following
new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of
money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 28 Ratification of Salary Bylaw
To see if the Town will vote to ratify certain actions taken by the Compensation
Committee under the 1955 Salary Bylaw, Section 3(e) as last amended. Or take any
other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Compensation Committee.




                                          11
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Article 29 Compensation - Town Officers
To see if the Town will vote to revise the compensation of the Town Clerk as the
Town by vote may determine and to transfer from available funds and/or
appropriate a sum of money to make said revision effective or take any other action
relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 30 Financial Assistance for Conservation
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Conservation Commission and other
proper officers of the Town to apply for financial assistance from public and private
sources to be expended by the Conservation Commission for the purchase of vacant
land and any other purpose, authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General
Laws as amended, or to reimburse the Town for sums of money expended for such
purposes, or both, and to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Conservation Commission.

Article 31 Public consumption of Marijuana or Tetrahydrocannabinol
To see if the Town will amend Chapter 119 of the Town Bylaw by adopting the
following Article IV:

Chapter 119 Peace and Good Order

   Article IV PUBLIC    CONSUMPTION                   OF     MARIJUANA           OR
TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL
       § 119-4 A.   Prohibition on Use

1.        Not in a Motor Vehicle: No person shall smoke, ingest, or otherwise use or
consume marijuana or tetrahydrocannabinol (as defined in G.L. c. 94C, §1) while in
or upon any public building, vehicle controlled by the Town, recreational area,
playground, park, beach, boat landing or launch, schoolhouse, school grounds,
street, sidewalk, public way, passageway, bridge, stairs, parking lot, cemetery, bus
stop, or any area or property owned or under the control of the Town, or any area
accessible to the public.
2.        In a Motor Vehicle: The consumption of marijuana or
tetrahydrocannabinol is also prohibited in any motor vehicle in or on a public way
whether or not the user is operating the vehicle or whether the vehicle is in
operation at all.




                                        12
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


§ 119 –4 B.       Violations and Penalties

1.       Whoever violates this Bylaw shall be punished by a fine of three hundred
dollars ($300) for each offense. Any penalty imposed under this Bylaw shall be in
addition to any civil penalty imposed under G.L. c. 94C, §32L. If a violator fails to
pay the fine issued, he or she may be subject to civil contempt proceedings.

§ 119 – 4 C.       Enforcement

1.       Violations of any provision of this Bylaw may be processed pursuant to
Chapter 40, section 21 D of the general laws of the Commonwealth and shall be in
amount set forth above. Enforcement of this Bylaw under the Non-Criminal
Disposition process shall be carried out by the Police Chief, and duly sworn Police
Officers who shall have full enforcement powers.
Sponsored by the Police Chief.

Article 32 Regional Emergency Communications Center
To see if the Town will vote to direct the Board of Selectmen to enter into an
intergovernmental agreement for a period of ten years to provide emergency and
non-emergency police, fire and emergency medical services dispatch with other
municipalities in Essex County based on a per capita chargeback through the Cherry
Sheet, or take any other action thereon. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 33 Sex Offender Bylaw
To see if the Town will vote to require that no level two or level three sex offender
may reside or be employed within one mile of any school, library, pediatrician’s
office, park, playground, nursery school or school bus stop. No level two or three
sex offender may loiter within fifty feet of any school, library, pediatrician’s office,
park, playground, nursery school or school bus stop. Sponsored by Minora Collins
and others.

Article 34 Support for Merger of North Shore Technical High School and
Essex Agricultural High School
To see if the Town will vote to approve the merger of North Shore Technical High
School and Essex Agricultural High School. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 35 North Shore Technical High School Building Project
To see if the Town will vote to approve the indebtedness authorized by the Regional
District School Committee of the North Shore Regional Vocational School District




                                          13
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


for the purpose of the construction of a new North Shore Technical High School, or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 36 North Shore Regional Vocational School District
To see if the Town will vote to approve the gross operating and maintenance budget
of the North Shore Technical High School and appropriate a sum of money for the
Town’s assessment of the same, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored
by the Board of Selectmen.

Artricle 37 Facilities Permit
To see if the Town will vote that the Marblehead Facilities Permit be of 3 options:
1. As current, allowing access to the Transfer Station and Devereux Beach; 2.
Allowing access to the Transfer Station only at a reduced fee; 3. Allowing access to
Devereux Beach only at a reduced fee. Fees to be determined by the Board of
Health. Sponsored by James Terlizzi and others.

Article 38 Proposed Demand Fee Level for Delinquent Taxes
To see if the Town will vote to charge for each written demand issued by the Town
Collector a fee of fifteen dollars to be added to and collected as part of the tax, as
authorized by Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 60, Section 15, effective as of
July 1, 2009. Sponsored by the Finance Director.

Article 39 Zoning Bylaw Change
To see if the town will vote to amend the zoning Bylaw as follows: (bold text
added)
a.       Article II Definitions 200-7 Meaning of words. DECK first sentence which
presently reads “An unroofed outdoor area whether of wood or other material,
whose floor is more than two feet above mean grade.” To read instead “ An
unroofed outdoor structure whether of wood or other material, with a floor which
is more than two feet above existing grade at any point.”
b.       Article 200-9 Interpretation of zone district boundaries D. Shoreline and
Harborfront District Boundaries Add a new paragraph (5) In any shoreline district
the side yard setback requirement shall be applied to the property line(s) that
is most perpendicular to the direction of the shoreline.
Or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Planning Board.

Article 40 Smart Growth Overlay District
To see if the the Town will vote to amend the Marblehead Zoning Bylaw by adding
a new § 200-44 entitled “Smart Growth Overlay District” to read as follows:
§200-44. Smart Growth Overlay District (SG)




                                         14
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


A. Purposes. The purposes of the Smart Growth Overlay District are: (1) To
encourage smart growth development within Marblehead, especially in the
downtown. (2) To promote low impact, green, and sustainable development that is
pedestrian friendly. (3) To ensure high quality site planning, architecture and
landscape design that is consistent with the distinct visual character and identity of
downtown Marblehead and Vinnin Square and provides development with safety,
convenience and amenities appropriate to its residential and mixed-use nature. (4)
To establish development standards that ensure context-sensitive design and
creative site planning in the reuse of existing buildings and construction of new
buildings. (5) To provide for diversified housing stock at a variety of costs in close
proximity to the local bus lines, including affordable housing, that meets the needs
of the Town’s population and promotes diversity. (6) To generate positive tax
revenue, and to benefit from the financial incentives provided by M.G.L. Ch. 40R,
while providing the opportunity for housing choice among households of varying
incomes, ages and sizes. B. Scope and Authority. The SG is established pursuant
to the authority of M.G.L. Ch. 40R and 760 CMR 59.00, and shall be deemed to
overlay the parcels as shown on the Zoning Map of the Town of Marblehead, as
amended. At the option of the owner, development of land within the SG may be
undertaken by means of a Plan Approval pursuant to the zoning controls set forth in
this § 200-44 or by complying with all applicable zoning controls set forth in the
Zoning Bylaw of the Town of Marblehead (Underlying Zoning). Development
Projects proceeding under this § 200-44 shall be governed solely by the provisions
of this § 200-44 and shall be deemed exempt from the standards and/or procedures
of the Underlying Zoning. C. Establishment and Delineation of Smart Growth
Overlay District and Sub-Districts. Within the SG, there are Sub-Districts
identified as SG School / Pleasant Sub-District and SG Vinnin Square Sub-District.
The boundaries of the SG and the Sub-Districts are delineated SG and labeled
“Smart Growth Overlay District and Sub-Districts” on the Official Zoning Map of
the Town of Marblehead in the office of the Town Clerk. D. Definitions. All
definitions are as they appear in the Marblehead Zoning Bylaw in effect as of the
date of adoption of this Bylaw, 2009, with the exception of the following terms
which are not defined in the Underlying Zoning. As used in this § 200-44, the
following terms shall have the meanings set forth below. To the extent that there is
any conflict between this § 200-44, or the administrative rules referenced in § 200-
44(K), and M.G.L. Ch. 40R and / or 760 CMR 59.00, et seq., the latter shall control:
ADMINISTERING AGENCY – A qualified housing organization designated by the
Marblehead Board of Selectmen with the power to monitor and to enforce
compliance with the provisions of this Bylaw related to Affordable Units, including
but not limited to computation of rental and sales prices; income eligibility of
households applying for Affordable Units; administration of an approved housing




                                         15
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


marketing and resident selection plan; and recording and enforcement of an
Affordable Housing Restriction for each Affordable Unit in the SG.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING RESTRICTION – A deed restriction of an Affordable
Homeownership Unit meeting the requirements in M.G.L. Ch. 184 § 31 and the
requirements of this Bylaw. AFFORDABLE RENTAL UNIT – A dwelling unit
required to be rented to an Eligible Household in accordance with the requirements
of this Bylaw.
AFFORDABLE HOMEOWNERSHIP UNIT – A dwelling unit required to be sold
to an Eligible Household in accordance with the requirements of this Bylaw.
APPLICANT – A landowner or other petitioner that files a Plan for a Development
Project subject to the provisions of the SG. APPROVING AUTHORITY – The
Planning Board of the Town of Marblehead acting as the authority designated to
review projects and issue approvals under this Bylaw.                AS-OF-RIGHT
DEVELOPMENT – A Development Project allowable under this Bylaw without
recourse to a special permit, variance, zoning amendment, or other form of zoning
relief. A Development Project that is subject to the Plan Review requirement of this
Bylaw shall be considered an As-of-Right Development. DHCD – The
Massachusetts Department of Housing and Community Development (DHCD) or
any successor agency. DESIGN STANDARDS – The document entitled
Marblehead Smart Growth Overlay District Design Standards, as amended,
approved by DHCD [INSERT DATE OF DHCD APPROVAL], 2009 pursuant to
M.G.L. Chapter 40R, § 10. The Design Standards are applicable to all Development
Projects within the SG that are subject to Plan Review by the Approving Authority.
DEVELOPMENT LOT – One or more Lots meeting the dimensional requirements
of this Bylaw which are designated as a Development Lot on a Plan for a
Development Project proposed within the SG and for which Plan Approval is
required under the provisions of this Bylaw. The lots comprising a Development
Lot need not be in the same ownership but within the initial application the
Applicant must demonstrate site control of all land subject to modification pursuant
to the requested permit. DEVELOPMENT PROJECT – A residential or mixed-use
development undertaken under this § 200-44. The limits of a Development Project
shall be identified in the SG in the Plan which is submitted to the Approving
Authority for Plan Review. ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLD – An individual or
household whose annual income is below eighty percent (80%) of the area-wide
Median Household Income as determined by the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD), adjusted for household size, with income
computed using HUD's rules for attribution of income to assets. HOUSEHOLD
INCOME, MEDIAN – The median income, adjusted for household size, as reported
by the most recent information from, or calculated from regulations promulgated
by, the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).




                                        16
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT – A building with a minimum of 25%
of the floor area on the street level devoted to nonresidential uses and including
residential units. A minimum of 50% of the total gross floor area in a Mixed-Use
Development Project shall be devoted to residential uses. MULTI-FAMILY
DWELLING – A residential or mixed-use building containing more than three
Dwelling Units designed for occupancy by the same number of families as the
number of Dwelling Units. NON-RESIDENTIAL USE – Office, Retail or
Restaurant Use, inclusive, or some combination of the same. OFFICE – A place of
business of a professional organization or the administration facility of a
commercial or industrial organization. PLAN – A plan depicting a proposed
Development Project for all or a portion of the SG and which is submitted to the
Approving Authority for its review and approval in accordance with the provisions
of this Bylaw. PLAN APPROVAL – The Approving Authority’s authorization for a
proposed Development Project based upon a finding of compliance with this Bylaw
and Design Standards after the conduct of a Plan Review. PLAN REVIEW – The
review procedure established by § J of this Bylaw and administered by the Planning
Board of the Town of Marblehead as the Approving Authority. PUBLIC PARK –
The public open space owned by the Town of Marblehead and located on Assessors
Parcel 129-19-0. RENOVATION – Physical improvement that adds to the value of
the real property. Painting, ordinary repairs, and other normal maintenance do not
constitute a renovation. SETBACK – Please refer to ARTICLE V Dimensional
Regulations § 200-15. B.(3) of the Marblehead Zoning Bylaw in effect as of the
date of adoption of this Bylaw. SG – The Smart Growth Overlay District, an overlay
zoning district adopted pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 40R, in accordance with the
procedures for zoning adoption and amendment as set forth in M.G.L. Ch. 40A and
approved by the Department of Housing and Community Development pursuant to
M.G.L. Ch. 40R and 760 CMR 59.00. SUB-DISTRICT – A specific and defined
area of land within the SG that is subject to specific requirements for allowable uses
or dimensional requirements that may differ from the requirements for allowable
uses or dimensional requirements in other specific and defined areas within the SG.
UNDERLYING ZONING – The zoning requirements adopted pursuant to M.G.L.
Ch. 40A that are otherwise applicable to the geographic area in which the SG is
located, as said requirements may be amended from time to time. UNDULY
RESTRICT – A provision of the SG or a Design Standard that adds unreasonable
costs or unreasonably impairs the economic feasibility of a proposed Development
Project in the SG. UNRESTRICTED UNIT – A Dwelling Unit that is not restricted
as to rent, price or eligibility of occupants. ZONING BYLAW – The Zoning Bylaw
of the Town of Marblehead, Massachusetts, adopted in accordance with and
pursuant to the provisions of M.G.L. Ch. 40A. ZONING MAP – The Zoning Map
of the Town of Marblehead, Massachusetts, adopted in accordance with and




                                         17
                                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


pursuant to the provisions of M.G.L. Ch. 40A. E. Permitted Uses. The following
uses shall be permitted in the following Sub-Districts As-of-Right upon Plan
Approval, and at residential densities specified in Table G. Table of Dimensional
and Density Requirements pursuant to the provisions of this Bylaw: e

     Residence               SG                  SG Vinnin Square
     Uses                    Pleasant St         Sub district
                             Sub district
     Multi-Family            No                  Yes
     Dwelling
     Mixed Use               Yes                 Yes
     Development
     Project

Uses that are not included as allowable uses pursuant to this Bylaw but allowable
pursuant to the Underlying Zoning must be permitted pursuant to the Underlying
Zoning. Mixed-Use Development Projects that include a non-residential component
only allowable by Special Permit must apply for and receive a Special Permit
pursuant to the Underlying Zoning prior to exercising a Plan Approval pursuant to
this Bylaw. F. Prohibited Uses or Activities in the SG. (1) Non-Residential Use,
except for those uses permitted pursuant to the Underlying Zoning or in a Mixed
Use Development Project. (2) Any use prohibited by the Underlying Zoning in
effect as of the date of adoption of this Bylaw. (3) Any use not listed in § E of this
Bylaw is expressly prohibited; provided, however, that uses permitted in the
Underlying Zoning district are permitted subject to the permitting requirements and
performance standards in the Zoning Bylaw and other applicable regulations. G.
Dimensional and Other Requirements. (1) New buildings within the SG shall be
subject to the bulk, dimensional and density requirements in Table G. Table of
Dimensional and Density Requirements: Su
        Sub district min Min lot Max  Min      Min open -District
                            area      Res       Frontage   area
                                      density
        SG                  10,000    30        35         N
        School/Pleasant
        Sub-District
        SG        Vinnin    10,000    30        35         (2)
        Square       Sub-
        District
        Sub district min    Min       Min       Min rear   Max
                            front     side      setback    height
                            setback   setback
        SG                  N         (1)       (1)        45
        School/Pleasant
        Sub-District
        SG Vinnin Sq        N         (1)       (1)        40
        Sub-District




                                                      18
                              MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Notes: N – None (1) – Except as to any boundary abutting any other business district, six feet; as to any
boundary abutting any residential district, nine feet. May be reduced at the discretion of the Plan
Approval Authority. (2) – One square foot of open land area (in addition to the areas of required parking
spaces for such lot) for each two square feet of gross floor area.

(2) Building Renovation. Renovation of existing buildings may maintain existing
building footprints, and may only expand such footprints insofar as such expansion
is in compliance with the required dimensional requirements for new buildings.
Renovation building projects need not meet Setback requirements applicable to new
construction, but renovated buildings may not cross lot lines or Sub-District
boundaries. (3) Fractional Units. When the application of the allowable densities
specified in Table G. Table of Dimensional and Density Requirements results in a
number that includes a fraction, the fraction shall be rounded up to the next whole
number if the fraction is 0.5 or more. If the result includes a fraction below 0.5, the
fraction shall be rounded down to the next whole number. (4) Adjacency to Public
Park. Where a Development Project is proposed on a Development Lot located
immediately adjacent to a Public Park, the allowable as-of-right density shall be
calculated based on the combined land area of the proposed Development Lot and
the land area of the Public Park. H. Off-Street Parking. (1) Off-street parking for
the non-residential portion of mixed-use buildings shall be provided in order to meet
or exceed the minimum requirements in § 200-17 (B-D) of the Zoning Bylaw in
effect as of the date of adoption of this Bylaw. (2) Off-street parking for Dwelling
Units in the SG School/Pleasant Sub-District shall be provided in order to meet or
exceed the following minimum requirements: (3) Off-street parking for Dwelling
Units in the SG Vinnin Square Sub-District shall be provided in order to meet or
exceed two (2) parking spaces per Dwelling Unit. Dwelling Unit (1 bedroom) 1.0
spaces; Dwelling Unit (2 bedrooms) 1.5 spaces; Dwelling Unit (3 bedrooms) 2.0
spaces; Dwelling Unit (4 bedrooms) 2.5 spaces. (4) Fractional Spaces. When the
application of the minimum required parking standards in this Section H results in a
number that includes a fraction, the fraction shall be rounded up to the next whole
number if the fraction is 0.5 or more. If the result includes a fraction below 0.5, the
fraction shall be rounded down to the next whole number. (5) Location of parking.
Any surface parking lot shall be located at the side or rear of a building, relative to
any public right-of-way or public open space. In no case shall surface parking for
new construction be permitted within the required front setbacks. Sub-surface
parking is allowed. (6) The Approving Authority may grant a Plan Approval
making such modifications in the parking standards or prescribe safeguards and
conditions as it shall warrant appropriate, provided that it finds that it is impractical
to meet the standards and that such modifications are appropriate by reason of the
proposed use and will not result in or worsen parking or traffic problems in the SG.




                                                  19
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


The Approving Authority may impose conditions of use or occupancy appropriate
to such modifications. (7) Where the Development Lot consists of more than a
single lot, the lots, in combination, shall be treated as the Development Lot, may be
contiguous or non-contiguous, and at the discretion of the Approving Authority,
may be considered as one lot for the purpose of calculating parking requirements.
(8) Shared use of required parking. At the discretion of the Approving Authority,
shared use may be made of required parking spaces by intermittent use
establishments such as churches, assembly halls, or theaters whose peak parking
demand is only at night or on Sundays and by other uses whose peak demand is
only during the day. In order for such shared parking to be eligible to satisfy
required off-street parking standards in whole or in part, prior to Plan Approval a
formal agreement shall be made in writing by the owners of the uses involved
concerning the number of spaces involved, substantiation of the fact that such
shared use is not overlapping or in conflict, and the duration of the agreement.
Required spaces shall be within 300 feet of the main entrance to the principal
buildings served by the shared parking. (9) The Approving Authority may require
additional visitor parking beyond the maximum required spaces per unit if deemed
appropriate given the design, layout, use and/or density of the proposed
Development Project. (10) Construction Standards. Each parking space shall be at
least nine feet wide and 20 feet long and shall be designed with appropriate means
of vehicular access to a street as well as maneuvering areas. Access and
maneuvering areas shall not be obstructed or used for the parking of motor vehicles.
Parking shall be designed and constructed to comply with all applicable disability
access requirements including but not limited to the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA) and the Massachusetts Architectural Access Board (AAB). I. Design
Standards. To ensure that new development shall be of high quality, and shall meet
the standards envisioned by the Town of Marblehead in adopting this Bylaw, the
Approving Authority shall adopt the Design Standards governing the issuance of
Plan Approvals for Development Projects within the SG and shall file a copy with
the Town Clerk. In addition to the standards set forth in this Bylaw, the physical
character of Development Projects within the SG shall comply with such Design
Standards. In the event of any conflict between this Bylaw and the Design
Standards, this Bylaw shall govern and prevail. J. Affordable Housing. (1) Number
of affordable units. Twenty percent (20%) of all Dwelling Units constructed in a
Development Project shall be Affordable Units provided, however, that twenty-five
percent (25%) of all rental dwelling units in a Development Project shall be
Affordable Units. For Development Projects in which all of the Dwelling Units are
limited to occupancy by elderly persons and/or by persons with disabilities, twenty-
five percent (25%) of the Dwelling Units shall be Affordable Units, whether the
Dwelling Units are rental or ownership units. (2) Fractional Units. When the




                                        20
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


application of the percentages specified above results in a number that includes a
fraction, the fraction shall be rounded up to the next whole number if the fraction is
0.5 or more. If the result includes a fraction below 0.5, the fraction shall be rounded
down to the next whole number. (3) Affordable Units shall comply with the
following requirements: (a) The monthly rent payment for an Affordable Rental
Unit, including utilities and parking, shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
maximum monthly income permissible for an Eligible Household, with price
determined assuming a Family size equal to the number of bedrooms in the unit plus
one unless other affordable program rent limits approved by DHCD shall apply; (b)
For an Affordable Homeownership Unit the monthly housing payment, including
mortgage principal and interest, private mortgage insurance, property taxes,
condominium and/or homeowner's association fees, insurance, and parking, shall
not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the maximum monthly income permissible for an
Eligible Household, assuming a Family size equal to the number of bedrooms in the
Dwelling Unit plus one; and (c) Affordable Units required to be offered for rent or
sale shall be rented or sold to and occupied only by Eligible Households. (4) Design
and construction. (a) Design. Affordable Units must be comparable in initial
construction quality and exterior design to the Unrestricted Units. However, nothing
in this section is intended to limit a homebuyer’s rights to renovate a Dwelling Unit
under applicable law. The Affordable Units must have access to all on-site
amenities. The total number of bedrooms in the Affordable Units shall, insofar as
practicable, be proportionate to the total number of bedrooms in all units in the
Development Project. (b) Timing. All Affordable Units must be constructed and
occupied not later than concurrently with construction and occupancy of
Unrestricted Units. For any Development Project that is approved in phases, the
proportion of Affordable Units shall be consistent across all phases.
(5) Age/Disability. At the Applicant’s option, the Development Project may include
the imposition of deed restrictions on age or disability to permit the Development
Project to be exclusively for the elderly and/or persons with disabilities provided,
however, that any such restrictions may not be applicable to the District as a whole.
(6) Affordable housing restriction. Each Affordable Unit shall be subject to an
Affordable Housing Restriction which is recorded with the Essex County Registry
of Deeds or Land Court Registry District of Essex County. The Affordable Housing
Restriction shall provide for the implementation of the requirements of this Bylaw.
All Affordable Housing Restrictions must include, at minimum, the following: (a)
Description of the Development Project, including whether the Affordable Unit will
be rented or owner-occupied. (b) A description of the Affordable Unit by address
and number of bedrooms. (c) The term of the Affordable Housing Restriction shall
be the longest period customarily allowed by law but shall be no less than thirty
(30) years. (d) The name and address of the Administering Agency with a




                                         21
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


designation of its power to monitor and enforce the Affordable Housing Restriction.
In a case where the Administering Agency cannot adequately carry out its
administrative duties, upon certification of this fact by the Marblehead Board of
Selectmen or by DHCD such duties shall devolve to and thereafter be administered
by a qualified housing entity designated by the Marblehead Board of Selectmen or,
in the absence of such timely designation, by an entity designated by the DHCD. (e)
Reference to a housing marketing and resident selection plan, to which the
Affordable Unit is subject, and which includes an affirmative fair housing
marketing program, including public notice and a fair resident selection process.
The housing marketing and selection plan may provide for preferences in resident
selection to the extent consistent with applicable law. The plan shall designate the
household size appropriate for a unit with respect to bedroom size and provide that
preference for such unit shall be given to a household of the appropriate size. (f) A
requirement that buyers or tenants will be selected at the initial sale or initial rental
and upon all subsequent sales and rentals from a list of Eligible Households
compiled in accordance with the housing marketing and selection plan. (g)
Reference to the formula pursuant to which rent of a rental unit or the maximum
resale price of a homeownership unit will be set. (h) A requirement that only an
Eligible Household may reside in an Affordable Unit and that notice of any lease or
sublease of any Affordable Unit to another Eligible Household shall be given to the
Administering Agency. (i) Provision for effective monitoring and enforcement of
the terms and provisions of the Affordable Housing Restriction by the
Administering Agency. (j) Provision that the restriction on an Affordable
Homeownership Unit shall run in favor of the Administering Agency and the Town
of Marblehead, in a form approved by municipal counsel, and shall limit initial sale
and re-sale to and occupancy by an Eligible Household. (k) Provision that the
restriction on Affordable Rental Units in a rental Development Project or rental
portion of a Development Project shall run with the rental Development Project or
rental portion of a Development Project and shall run in favor of the Administering
Agency and the Town of Marblehead, in a form approved by municipal counsel,
and shall limit rental and occupancy to an Eligible Household. (l) Provision that the
owner(s) or manager(s) of Affordable Rental Unit(s) shall file an annual report to
the Administering Agency, in a form specified by that agency certifying compliance
with the provisions of this Bylaw and containing such other information as may be
reasonably requested in order to ensure affordability. (m)A requirement that
residents in Affordable Units provide such information as the Administering
Agency may reasonably request in order to ensure affordability eligibility and
compliance. (n) Designation of the priority of the Affordable Housing Restriction
over mortgages and other restrictions. (7) Administration. The Administering
Agency shall ensure the following: (a) Prices of Affordable Homeownership Units




                                          22
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


are properly computed; rental amounts of Affordable Rental Units are properly
computed. (b) Income eligibility of households applying for Affordable Units is
properly and reliably determined. (c) The housing marketing and resident selection
plan conforms to all requirements and is properly administered. (d) Sales and
rentals are made to Eligible Households chosen in accordance with the housing
marketing and resident selection plan with appropriate unit size for each household
being properly determined and proper preference being given. (e) Affordable
Housing Restrictions meeting the requirements of this section are recorded with the
Essex County Registry of Deeds or Land Court Registry District of Essex County.
(8) The housing marketing and selection plan may make provision for payment by
the Applicant of reasonable costs to the Administering Agency to develop,
advertise, and maintain the list of Eligible Households, to conduct the housing
lottery, and to monitor and enforce compliance with affordability requirements over
time. K. Administration. The Approving Authority shall adopt and file with the
Town Clerk administrative rules relative to the application requirements and
contents for Plan Review. Such administrative rules and any amendment thereto
must be approved by the Massachusetts Department of Housing and Community
Development. The Plan Review process encompasses the following: (1) Pre-
application review. The Applicant is encouraged to participate in a pre-application
with the Approving Authority at a regular meeting(s) of the Approving Authority.
The purpose of the preapplication review is to obtain the advice and direction of the
Approving Authority prior to filing the application. At the preapplication review the
Applicant shall outline the proposal and seek preliminary feedback from the
Approving Authority, other municipal review entities, and other members of the
public. The Applicant is also encouraged to request a site visit by the Approving
Authority and/or its designee in order to facilitate pre-application review. (2)
Application procedures. (a) An application for Plan Approval shall be filed by the
Applicant with the Town Clerk and a copy of the application including the date of
filing certified by the Town Clerk shall be filed forthwith with the Approving
Authority. The Applicant shall also file the required number of copies of the
application with the Building Inspector and with the Approving Authority. Said
filing shall include any required forms provided by the Approving Authority. (b) As
part of any application for Plan Approval, the Applicant must submit the following
documents to the Approving Authority and the administering Agency: (1) Evidence
that the Development Project complies with the cost and eligibility requirements of
§ J. Affordable Housing; (2) Development Project plans that demonstrate
compliance with the requirements of § J. Affordable Housing; and (3) A form of
Affordable Housing Restriction that satisfies the requirements of § J. Affordable
Housing. (c) Review fees. The Applicant shall be required to pay for reasonable
consulting fees to provide peer review of the application for the benefit of the




                                        23
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Approving Authority. Such fees shall be held by the Town of Marblehead in an
interest-bearing escrow account, and shall be used only for expenses associated with
the use of outside consultants employed by the Approving Authority in reviewing
the Plan application. Any surplus funds remaining after the completion of such
review, including any interest accrued, shall be returned to the Applicant forthwith.
(d) Upon receipt by the Approving Authority, applications for Site Approval shall
be distributed to the Board of Selectmen, Board of Health, Fair Housing Committee,
Building Inspector, Conservation Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals,
Department of Public Works, the Fire and Police Departments and the Water and
Sewer Commission. Any reports from these parties shall be submitted to the
Approving Authority within sixty (60) days of filing of the application. (e) Within
thirty (30) days of filing of an application with the Approving Authority, the
Approving Authority or its designee shall evaluate the proposal with regard to its
completeness and shall submit an advisory report in writing to the Applicant
certifying the completeness of the application. Where an application is found to be
incomplete, the Approving Authority or its designee shall provide a statement
outlining required items that were missing from the application. The Board or its
designee shall forward to the Applicant, with its report, copies of all
recommendations received to date from other boards, commissions or departments.
(3) Public hearing. The Approving Authority shall hold a public hearing and review
all applications according to the procedure specified in M.G.L. Ch. 40R § 11. (4)
Prior to the granting of any Plan Approval for a Development Project, the Applicant
must demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Administering Agency or, in the event
that an Administering Agency has not yet been named, to the satisfaction of the
Approving Authority, that the method by which such affordable rents or affordable
purchase prices are computed shall be consistent with state or federal guidelines for
affordability applicable to the Town of Marblehead. (5) Plan Approval decision. (a)
The Approving Authority shall make a decision on the Plan application by majority
vote of its members, and shall file said decision with the Town Clerk, within 120
days of the receipt of the application by the Town Clerk. The time limit for public
hearings and taking of action by the Approving Authority may be extended by
written agreement between the Applicant and the Approving Authority. A copy of
such agreement shall be filed with the Town Clerk. (b) Failure of the Approving
Authority to take action within 120 days or extended time, if applicable, shall be
deemed to be an approval of the application. (c) An Applicant who seeks approval
because of the Approving Authority’s failure to act on an application within the 120
days or extended time, if applicable, must notify the Town Clerk in writing, within
fourteen (14) days from the expiration of said time limit for a decision, of such
approval and that a copy of that notice has been sent by the Applicant to parties in
interest by mail and that each such notice specifies that appeals, if any, shall be




                                        24
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


made pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 40R and shall be filed within twenty (20) days after
the date the Town Clerk received such written notice from the Applicant that the
Approving Authority failed to act within the time prescribed. (d) The Approving
Authority’s findings, including the basis of such findings, shall be stated in a written
decision of approval, conditional approval or denial of the Plan Approval
application. The written decision shall contain the name and address of the
Applicant, identification of the land affected and its ownership, and reference by
date and title to the plans that were the subject of the decision. (e) The decision of
the Approving Authority, together with the detailed reasons therefore, shall be filed
with the Town Clerk, the Board of Appeals and the Building Inspector. A copy of
the decision shall be mailed to the Applicant and to the owner if other than the
Applicant by the Approving Authority certifying that a copy of the decision has
been filed with the Town Clerk and that all plans referred to in the decision are on
file with the Approving Authority. A notice of the decision shall be sent to parties in
interest and to persons who requested a notice at the public hearing. (f) Effective
date. If twenty (20) days have elapsed after the decision has been filed in the office
of the Town Clerk without an appeal having been filed or if such appeal, having
been filed, is dismissed or denied, the Town Clerk shall so certify on a copy of the
decision. If the application is approved by reason of the failure of the Approving
Authority to timely act, the Town Clerk shall make such certification on a copy of
the application. A copy of the decision or application shall be recorded with the
title of the land in question in the Essex County Registry of Deeds or the Essex
Land Registry District, and indexed in the grantor index under the name of the
owner of record or recorded and noted on the owner’s certificate of title. The
responsibility and the cost of said recording and transmittal shall be borne by the
Applicant. (6) Criteria for approval. The Approving Authority shall approve the
Development Project upon finding that it complies with the requirements of the SG
and applicable Design Standards. (7) Criteria for conditional approval. The
Approving Authority may impose conditions on a Development Project as
necessary to ensure compliance with this § 200-44 and applicable Design Standards,
or to mitigate any extraordinary adverse impacts of the Development Project on
nearby properties, insofar as such conditions are compliant with the provisions of
M.G.L. Ch. 40R and applicable regulations and do not Unduly Restrict
opportunities for development. The Approving Authority may require construction
of an approved Development Project to be phased for the purpose of coordinating
the Development Project with any mitigation required to address extraordinary
adverse Development Project impacts on nearby properties. (8) Criteria for denial.
The Approving Authority may deny an application for Plan Approval pursuant to
this Bylaw if the Board finds one or more of the following: (a) The Development
Project does not meet the conditions and requirements set forth in the SG Zoning




                                          25
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


and applicable Design Standards. (b) The Applicant failed to submit information
and fees required by the SG Zoning and necessary for an adequate and timely
review of the design of the Development Project or potential Development Project
impacts. (c) It is not possible to adequately mitigate significant adverse
Development Project impacts on nearby properties by means of suitable conditions.
(9) Time limit. A project approval shall remain valid and shall run with the land
indefinitely provided that construction has commenced within two (2) years after
the decision issues, which time shall be extended by the time required to adjudicate
any appeal from such approval. Said time shall also be extended if the project
proponent is actively pursuing other required permits for the project or if there is
good cause for the failure to commence construction, or as may be provided in an
approval for a multi-phase Development Project. (10) Appeals. Pursuant to M.G.L.
Ch. 40R, § 11, any person aggrieved by a decision of the Approving Authority may
appeal to the Superior Court, the Land Court department, or the Housing Court
department within twenty (20) days after the Plan decision has been filed in the
office of the Town Clerk. L. Waivers. The Approving Authority may authorize
waivers in the Plan Approval with respect to the dimensional and other standards set
forth in this § 200-44 and in the Design Standards upon a finding that such waiver
will allow the Development Project to achieve the density, affordability and/or
physical character allowable under this Bylaw. However, the Approving Authority
may not waive any portion of the Affordable Housing requirements in § J.
Affordable Housing except insofar as such waiver results in the creation of a
number of Affordable Units in excess of the minimum number of required
Affordable Units. M. Fair Housing Requirement. All Development Projects
within the SG shall comply with applicable federal, state and local fair housing
laws. N. Annual Update. On or before July 31 of each year, the Board of
Selectmen shall cause to be filed an Annual Update with the Department of Housing
and Community Development (DHCD) in a form to be prescribed by DHCD. The
Annual Update shall contain all information required in 760 CMR 59.07, as may be
amended from time to time, and additional information as may be required pursuant
to M.G.L. Ch. 40S and accompanying regulations. The Town Clerk shall maintain a
copy of all updates transmitted to DHCD pursuant to this Bylaw, with said copies to
be made available upon request for public review. O. Notification of Issuance of
Building Permits. Upon issuance of a residential building permit within the SG, the
Building Inspector shall cause to be filed an application to the DHCD in a form to
be prescribed by DHCD, for authorization of payment of a one-time density bonus
payment for each residential building permit pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 40R. The
application shall contain all information required in 760 CMR 59.06 (2), as may be
amended from time to time, and additional information as may be required pursuant
to M.G.L. Ch. 40S and accompanying regulations. The Town Clerk shall maintain a




                                        26
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


copy of all such applications transmitted to DHCD pursuant to this Bylaw, with said
copies to be made available upon request for public review. P. Date of effect. The
effective date of this Bylaw shall be the date on which such adoption is voted upon
by Town Meeting pursuant to the requirements of M.G.L. Ch. 40A § 5 and M.G.L.
Ch. 40R; provided, however, that an Applicant may not proceed with construction
pursuant to this Bylaw prior to the receipt of final approval of this Bylaw and
accompanying Zoning Map by both the Department of Housing and Community
Development and the Office of the Massachusetts Attorney General. Q.
Severability. The provisions of this section are severable. If any provision of this
section is held invalid, the other provisions shall not be affected but shall remain in
full force. (A copy hereof is available at the office of the Town Clerk)
Or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Planning Board.

Article 41 Landfill Regulatory Compliance Activities
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for continued water quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk
assessment, engineering, and any other services related to the old landfill; to
determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or
take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Health.

Article 42 Disposal Area Remediation / Stoneybrook Rd.
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money to be
expended by the Board of Health for disposal area remediation as it relates to
Stoneybrook Road and private property(s) on Stoneybrook Rd., some of which abut
land owned by the Town of Marblehead and to determine whether this appropriation
shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Health.

Article 43 Litchman Terrace Open Space
To see if the Town will vote to transfer the care, custody, management and control
of a portion of the following described parcel of land known as Parcel 29 on
Marblehead Assessor’s Map 136 which is owned by the Town of Marblehead to the
Marblehead Conservation Commission for Open Space purposes. Said entire parcel
of land is described as a certain parcel of land owned by the Town of Marblehead
containing 1.153 acres and lying between a proposed road off Turner Road to the
northwest and Litchman is bounded as follows:

NORTHWEST by said proposed road (45 feet in width) off Turner Road;
NORTHEAST by land now or Bryan C. and Sara W. Segee (12 Turner Road),
Steven J. Elliott and Jane L. Knight (10 Turner Road), Sharon A. Trainor (76 Green




                                         27
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Street), Linda W. Boynton (72 Green Street), Vlad Farfel (68 Green Street) and
Robert L. and Michele McKay (66 Green Street);
SOUTHEAST by Litchman Terrace;
SOUTHWEST by land now or formerly of Paul and Sophia Moroz (24 Taft Street),
Joanne N. Jauron (22 Taft Street), Lewis W. II and Kristine E. Farrar (20 Taft
Street), Martha M. Stiles (18 Taft Street), William J. and Constance M. Willis (16
Taft Street) and Louise M. Antoniolli (14 Taft Street)
The parcel of land described above is identified by the term “Reservation” on a plan
entitled “Town of Marblehead, Turner Estate, Lot Plan” dated October 22, 1941, R.
O. Burlingham, Town Engineer, recorded with Essex South District Registry of
Deeds, Plan Book 73, Plan 82. The “Reservation” parcel shown on the 1941 plan
has been modified by the layout of Litchman Terrace in 1969 as shown on plan
entitled “Town of Marblehead, Litchman Terrace Layout (In Part)” dated
September 24, 1968, George H. Clark, Jr., Town Engineer, on file in the Office of
the Town Engineer, Marblehead, MA 01945.

Said portion of land to be transferred to the Conservation Commission shall include
the above description but shall not include a portion of the parcel of land which
consists of a 40-ft wide strip of land running parallel to and adjacent to Litchman
Terrace as shown on Plan entitled “Town Land off Litchman Terrace, Marblehead,
MA 01945” dated January 2009 on file in the Office of the Town Engineer,
Marblehead, MA 01945. Said strip of land to be excluded contains about 4,000
square feet (0.09 acres) and is to remain under the care, custody, management and
control of the Marblehead Board of Selectmen, or take any action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 44 Land Acquisition, Naugus Avenue
To see if the Town of Marblehead will vote to acquire for recreation purposes a fee
simple interest in certain parcel(s) of land totaling approximately three acres,
commonly known as the WESX property, located on Naugus Avenue, owned by
ATCO Inc. which are shown on Marblehead Assessors Maps as Map 176 Lot 16,
which land shall be held in the care and custody of the Board of Selectmen for
recreation purposes; that a sum of money be appropriated for such purpose and to
raise such appropriation, the Treasurer be authorized to borrow under and pursuant
to Chapter 44, Section 7 and 8C, of the General Laws or any other enabling
authority, and to issue bonds or notes of the Town therefor; provided that the
amount authorized to be borrowed hereunder shall be contingent upon the vote of
the Town Election to exempt from the provisions of Proposition 2-1/2, so called, the
amount required to satisfy the obligations, including principal and interest, under
the bonds; and further that the Board of Selectmen shall be authorized to file on




                                        28
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


behalf of the Town of Marblehead any and all applications deemed necessary for
grants and /or reimbursements from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts or the
United States under the Self-Help Act (Chapter 132A, Section 11) and/or any other
state or federal programs including those in aid recreation land acquisition and to
receive and accept such grants and reimbursements, including grants from private
parties, for this purpose and/or any others in any way connected with the scope of
this Article; and the Board of Selectmen shall be authorized to enter into all
agreements and to execute any and all instruments as may be necessary on behalf
of The Town of Marblehead to affect said purchase, or take any other action in
relation thereto. Sponsored by Board of Selectmen.

Article 45         School Department Computer, Support Equipment, and
Technology Infrastructure.
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
purchasing computers, technology infrastructure, support software and equipment
and necessary accessory furnishings and to raise the money for these purposes by
the issuance of bonds or notes or in any other manner, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 46 Schools Construction and or Renovation Program
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
remodeling, constructing, furnishing or making extraordinary repairs, including all
professional feasibility studies, design, architectural and engineering fees, to the
Gerry, Coffin, Bell, Eveleth, Glover, Village, Veterans Middle and High School
and/or any other schools and their respective playing fields, and to raise the money
for these purposes by the issue of bonds or notes or in any other manner, or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 47 Fiscal 2009 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, to defray the
necessary and usual expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal
year beginning July 1, 2008, to be added to Article 44 of the May 2008 Annual
Town Meeting, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the
Finance Department.

Article 48 Available Funds appropriate to Reduce Tax Rate
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate free cash balance in the hands of the
Town Treasurer, including any surplus or part of surplus in the Electric Light
Department for use of the Assessors in making the tax rate or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Director.




                                        29
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Article 49 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the necessary and
usual expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2009, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Finance
Department.

Article 50 Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the supplemental
expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning July
1, 2009, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Finance
Department.

You are hereby further required and directed to notify and warn the Inhabitants of
the Town of Marblehead aforesaid who are qualified to vote in elections and in
Town affairs to subsequently meet at the several designated polling places in their
respective precincts in said Marblehead to wit:

In Precinct 1 - Polling Place –
OLD TOWN HOUSE
In Precinct 2 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 3 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 4 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 5 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 6 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 7 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER

on Monday, the 11th day of May next A.D. 2009 (it being the second Monday in
May) at 7 o’clock in the forenoon then and there to bring into the precinct officers
of their respective precincts their votes on one ballot for the following-named Town
Officers to wit:

5 Selectmen
1 Assessor
1 Cemetery Commissioner




                                        30
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


1 Board of Health
1 Housing Authority
1 Library Trustee for 1year unexpired term
2 Library Trustees
2 Electric Light Commissioners
1 Moderator
2 Planning Board
5 Recreation & Park Commissioners
1 School Committee
1 Water and Sewer Commissioner

For these purposes the polls will be open at each and all of said precincts at 7
o’clock in the forenoon and will be closed at 8 o’clock in the afternoon at each and
all of said precincts and you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested
copies thereof at Abbot Hall and ten (10) other conspicuous places in Town as
required by the Bylaws not later than thirty (30) days after being closed.
Hereof fail not and make due return of this Warrant or a certified copy thereof with
our doings thereon, to each of the several precinct wardens at the time and place of
meetings aforesaid and to the Town Clerk as soon as may be before the said
meetings.

Given under our hands at Marblehead aforesaid this 11th day of February 2009.

JACKIE BELF-BECKER, Chairman
HARRY C. CHRISTENSEN, JR.
JUDITH R. JACOBI
JAMES E. NYE
WILLIAM L. WOODFIN, II
Selectmen of Marblehead

A True Copy

Attest: Cabot W. Dodge, Constable




                                        31
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                         TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD
                            TOWN MEETING
                             MAY 4TH, 2009


        Pursuant to the warrant the inhabitants assembled at the Veterans Middle
School Performing Art Center.
        At 7:50 PM a quorum being present the Moderator called the meeting to
order.

ARTICLE 1                Articles in Numerical Order
                         VOTED
                         That the articles be taken up in their numerical order.

ARTICLE 2                 Reports of Town Officers and Committees
                         VOTED
                         To receive the report of the Town Accountant, the
                         reports of the Town Officers, and Special Committees.

ARTICLE 3                Lease Town Property
                         VOTED
                         To allow the Board of Selectmen and School Committee
                         to let or lease such land, buildings or structures owned by
                         the Town on such terms as they may determine.

ARTICLE 4                Accept Trust Property
                         VOTED
                         That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 5               Assume Liability
                        VOTED
                        To see if the Town will assume liability in the manner
                        provided by Section 29 of Chapter 91 of the General
                        Laws as most recently amended by Chapter 5, Acts of
                        1995, for all damages that may be incurred by work to be
                        performed by the Department of Public Works of
                        Massachusetts for the improvement, development,
                        maintenance and protection of tidal and non tidal rivers
                        and streams, harbors, tidewaters, foreshores and shores
                        along a public beach in accordance with Section II of




                                       32
            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


             Chapter 91 of the General Laws and authorize the
             Selectmen to execute and deliver a bond of indemnity
             therefore to the Commonwealth.

ARTICLE 6    Unpaid Accounts
             VOTED
             To appropriate the sum of $646.00 to provide the
             payment of any unpaid accounts brought forward from
             previous years, to be transferred from the following
             grants, revolving funds or Article 44, May 2008 Annual
             Town Meeting - Expenses of Several Departments as
             follows:

             Item 064 Police Indemnification               24.00
             Item 191 Park Expense                         32.00
             Item 239 Harbor Expense                       590.00

ARTICLE 7    Payment in Lieu of Tax (“PILOT”) Agreement
             VOTED
             To approve the payment in lieu of Tax (“PILOT”)
             Agreement between the Town of Marblehead and
             Adventcare, Inc. with respect to the property known as
             the Lafayette Rehabilitation and Skilled Nursing Facility
             and located at 25 Lafayette Street, Marblehead,
             Massachusetts.

ARTICLE 8    Available Funds Appropriate to Meet State Aid
             Revenue Cuts
             VOTED
             To appropriate the sum of $138,107 from certified free
             cash to offset the reductions in fiscal year 2009 state aid
             revenue.

ARTICLE 9    Reductions in Fiscal 2009 Expenses of Several
             Departments
             VOTED
             That this article be indefinitely postponed.




                           33
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


ARTICLE 10    Proposed Establishment of Other Post Employment
              Benefits Liability Trust Fund
              VOTED
              To accept the provisions of Chapter 479 of the Acts of
              2008 “AN ACT PROVIDING FOR THE
              ESTABLISHMENT             OF      OTHER         POST
              EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS LIABILITY TRUST
              FUNDS IN MUNICIPALITIES AND CERTAIN
              OTHER GOVERNMENTAL UNITS.”

ARTICLE 11    Walls and Fences
              VOTED
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 12    Transfer of a portion of the unexpended proceeds of
              Seawall Project Bond Anticipation Notes to Village
              School Project
              VOTED
              To transfer $2,135,380.00 of the unexpended proceeds of
              outstanding bond anticipation notes of the Town issued
              pursuant to the vote of the Town passed May 9, 2007
              (Article 52), which vote appropriated and authorized a
              borrowing of $8,700,000 for the construction and/or
              reconstruction of the Ocean Avenue Causeway, to
              finance costs associated with the architectural, project
              management, and construction of the Village School
              project as authorized by the vote of the Town passed
              May 5, 2008 (Article 39), which vote appropriated and
              authorized a borrowing of $21,766,933 for such project,
              and to reduce the amount authorized to be borrowed
              pursuant to such vote by the amount of such transfer.

ARTICLE 13    Revolving Funds
              VOTED
              To continue the authorization of the following revolving
              funds as required by M.G.L. C.44, s.53E 1/2 as
              recommended by the Board of Selectmen.

                       1.        Historical Commission Gift Shop
                                 Revolving Fund in the amount of




                            34
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                 $13,000 in fiscal 2010 for the use of
                 the Historical Commission to be taken
                 from Historical Commission revenues
                 from the sale of items at the gift shop
                 operated by said Commission; said
                 appropriation to be used for expenses
                 of operating said gift shop; and
                 expended by the Commission.

       2.        Recreation and Park Revolving Fund
                 in the amount of $300,000 in fiscal
                 2010 for the use of the Recreation and
                 Park Commission to be taken from
                 revenues in connection with recreation
                 programs and activities including teen
                 center,    program     fees,   rentals,
                 miscellaneous sales, promotional fees,
                 $5.00 of out of town parking fees
                 charged on weekends and various
                 recreational fund raising events; said
                 appropriation to be used for the
                 expense of said activities including
                 equipment and promotions; and
                 expended by the Commission.

       3.        Council on Aging Revolving Fund in
                 the amount of $250,000 in fiscal 2010
                 for the use of the Council on Aging
                 Board of Directors to be taken from
                 revenues in connection with the meals
                 on wheels, and nutrition programs,
                 mini-bus         donations,       trips,
                 miscellaneous programs, instructional
                 classes, recreational programs, games
                 and tournaments, luncheons and
                 entertainment, and other activities
                 including program fees, fund raising,
                 rentals, miscellaneous sales and
                 promotional fees; said appropriation to
                 be used for the expense of said




            35
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                 activities  and     trips, including
                 equipment and promotions; and
                 expended by the Council on Aging
                 Board of Directors.

       4.        Dog Officer/Animal Control Officer
                 Revolving Fund in the amount of
                 $20,000 in fiscal 2010 for the use of
                 the Dog Officer to be taken from
                 revenues in connection with fees,
                 reimbursements, deposits and refunds
                 of animal medical expenses including
                 spay      and      neuter     expenses,
                 miscellaneous other sales and various
                 fund raising events;' said appropriation
                 to be used for the expense of said
                 programs and activities including
                 medical bills, animal food, pet supplies
                 and equipment, and promotional
                 expenses; and expended by the Dog
                 Officer/ Animal Control Officer.

       5.        RAD Program Revolving Fund in the
                 amount of $7,500 in fiscal 2010 for the
                 use of the Police Chief to be taken
                 from revenues in connection with
                 tuition,    fees,      reimbursements,
                 miscellaneous     sales,   gifts   and
                 donations of the RAD program; said
                 appropriation to be used for the
                 expense of said program including
                 salaries and expenses including
                 equipment.

       6.        School Tuition Revolving Fund in the
                 amount of $50,000 in fiscal 2010 for
                 the use of the School Committee to be
                 taken from revenues in connection
                 with tuition's from nonimmigrant
                 foreign students; said appropriation to




            36
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                  be used for the expenses of instruction
                  including     salaries,   instructional
                  supplies and equipment.

       7.         Commercial Waste Revolving Fund in
                  the amount of $450,000.00 in fiscal
                  2010 for the use of the Board of Health
                  to be taken from revenues in
                  connection with commercial waste
                  disposal receipts; said fund to be
                  expended for the cost of solid waste
                  disposal.

       8.         Conservation Fines Revolving Fund in
                  the amount of $10,000.00 in fiscal
                  2010 for the use of the Conservation
                  Commission to be taken from revenues
                  in connection with receipts collected
                  from     fines   assessed     by     the
                  commission; said fund to be expended
                  for remediation of wetlands violations
                  and for the care and maintenance of
                  lands under the control and jurisdiction
                  of the Conservation Commission.

       9.         Sump Pump Improvement Revolving
                  fund in the amount of $25,000 in fiscal
                  2010 for the use of Sewer and Water
                  Commission; to be taken from
                  revenues in connection with receipts
                  collected from money received as a
                  result of permitting fees; said fund to
                  be expended for the aid in removal of
                  sump pumps currently tied into the
                  sewer system.

       10.        Special Education Revolving Fund in
                  the amount of $450,000 in fiscal 2010
                  for the use of the School Committee;
                  revenues to be taken from tuition




             37
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                                 collected for special education students
                                 tuitioned in to the Marblehead Public
                                 Schools and from funds collected to
                                 pay for the other special education
                                 contracted services for out of district
                                 special education students being
                                 provided service through the North
                                 Shore Special Education Consortium
                                 and other approved special education
                                 public and private placements; said
                                 funds to be expended on costs directly
                                 related to the special education
                                 programs provided to these out of
                                 district students.

                      11.        Storm Water By-Law Revolving Fund
                                 in the amount of $10,000 in fiscal 2010
                                 for the use of the Conservation
                                 Commission; to be taken from
                                 revenues in connection with receipts
                                 collected from application fees
                                 associated with the town’s storm water
                                 management and erosion control
                                 regulations; said funds to be expended
                                 for expenses related to the enforcement
                                 and administration of the Storm Water
                                 By-Law.

ARTICLE 14    Fiscal 2009 School Budget Additional Appropriation
              VOTED
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 15    Water and Sewer Commission Claims
              VOTED
              To authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the
              Board of Selectmen acting jointly to compromise any
              claims for damages or suits pending against the Town of
              Marblehead on account of acts which may have occurred
              during the construction of the water and sewer system.




                            38
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


ARTICLE 16    Storm Drainage Construction
              VOTED
              That $324,000.00 is appropriated from taxation for the
              construction and reconstruction of sewers for surface
              drainage purposes, including engineering services in
              connection therewith, to authorize the appropriate Town
              Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or
              otherwise, any land or easement necessary; to be
              expended by the Water and Sewer Commission.

ARTICLE 17    Sewer Department Construction
              VOTED
              That the sum of $691,899.00 is appropriated from sewer
              retained earnings to be expended by the Water and Sewer
              Commission for the construction or reconstruction of
              sewers for sanitary purposes and for sewage disposal,
              pump stations, original pumping station equipment,
              metering equipment, safety equipment, replacement of
              said equipment, engineering, consultants and surveys
              including revenue studies, and other general Sewer
              Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of
              Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by purchase,
              eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements
              necessary.


ARTICLE 18    Water Department Construction
               VOTED
              That the sum of $941,664.00 is appropriated from water
              retained earnings to be expended by the Water and Sewer
              Commission for the construction, reconstruction and
              extending of water mains, replacement of water meters,
              appurtenances, engineering, consultants, surveys
              including revenue studies, and other general Water
              Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of
              Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by purchase,
              eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements
              necessary.




                           39
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


ARTICLE 19           Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
                     VOTED
                     That the sum of $468,730.00 be appropriated, and to
                     meet this appropriation; $25,614.62 is to be transferred
                     from Article 32, 2004 Purchase of Equipment,
                     $27,500.00 to be transferred from Sewer Retained
                     Earnings, $36,000.00 to be transferred from the
                     Cemetery Sale of Lots Fund and $379,615.38 is to be
                     raised by taxation. To include the following:

                     Police Department         Cemetery Department
                     2 Police Vehicles         1 Pick-up Truck (2)

                     Fire Department           Park Department
                     1 Utility Vehicle         1 Riding Mower
                                               1 Dump Truck
                     Highway Department
                     2 Trucks with Sanders     Sewer Department
                                               1 Utility Vehicle (1)
                     Tree Department
                     1 Stump Grinder


                     1.   From Sewer Retained Earnings
                     2.   From Cemetery Sale of Lots Fund


ARTICLE 20           Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
                     VOTED
                     That the sum of $176,594.00 be appropriated.
                     $160,000.00 to be raised by taxation and $16,594.00 to
                     be taken from the Cemetery Sale of Lots Fund.

             Mary Alley Building               Abbot Public Library
             Install New Ceiling Tiles         Entrance Relocation
             Install New Light Fixtures        Carpet Cleaning
             Paint Halls and 16 Offices
                                               Fire Department
             Community Center                  New Turnout Gear
             Repair Roof                       Hoses and Nozzels




                                   40
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


             Vine St. Garage                     Highway Department
             Repair Roof                         New HVA Units
                                                 Replace Widows
             Cemetery
             Expansion of Lots                   Transfer Station
                                                 Replace Hopper
             Hobb’s Building
             Replace Roof

ARTICLE 21           Sidewalks
                     VOTED
                     That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 22           Collective Bargaining (Fire)
                     VOTED
                     That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 23           Collective Bargaining (Police)
                     VOTED
                     That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 24           Collective Bargaining (IUE/CWE - Local 1776)
                     VOTED
                     That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 25           Proposed Reclassification and Pay              Schedule
                     (Administrative)
                     VOTED
                     That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 26           Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule
                     (Season and Temporary Personnel)
                     VOTED
                     That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 27           Pay Schedule and Reclassification
                     (Traffic Supervisors)
                     VOTED
                     That this article be indefinitely postponed.




                                   41
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


ARTICLE 28    Ratification of Salary By-Law
              VOTED
              To ratify certain actions taken by the Compensation
              Committee under section 3(e) of the 1955 Salary By-
              Law as last amended and amend the classifications of the
              positions as follows:
              1. Reclassify positions in the Administrative Pay
              Schedule:
                       a. Assistant DPW Director from Group 53 to 54
                       b. Assistant Director of Accounting from Group
                       54 to Group 55.
                       c. Payroll Administrator from Group 52 to
                       Group 53.
              2. Reclassify and change job title in the Administrative
              Pay Schedule:
                       a. Town Engineer from Group 56 to Group 55
                       with the new title of Engineering and
                       Conservation Administrator.


ARTICLE 29    Compensation - Town Officers
              VOTED
              That the yearly compensation of the Town Officer
              named in this article be as follows:

              Town Clerk                 $66,899.52

              Said amount to be in full compensation for services as
              Town Clerk. All fees received by the Town Clerk in his
              official capacity to be accounted for to the Town
              Revenue Officer.

              That the Town Clerk as elected and having served in that
              position or as a regular full-time employee for five
              consecutive years, and for each applicable additional five
              years on such basis, shall be paid longevity pay
              annually, in addition to his weekly salary.

              Eligibility will be determined on November 30 each year
              and payment made to the official with the first regular




                           42
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


              payroll of December of that year. Only those in office
              on the determination date and qualified by their
              consecutive years of service, as described above, shall
              receive longevity pay for the calendar year.

                      Annual longevity                   Town Clerk
                      Pay Schedule

                      Not less than 5 years                  $300.00
                      Not less than 10 years                  400.00
                      Not less than 15 years                  500.00
                      Not less than 20 years                  600.00
                      Not less than 25 years                  700.00
                      30 years and over                       800.00

ARTICLE 30    Financial Assistance for Conservation
              VOTED
              To authorize the Conservation Commission and other
              proper officers of the Town to apply for financial
              assistance from public and private sources to be
              expended by the Conservation Commission for the
              purchase of vacant land and any other purpose
              authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General
              Laws as amended, or to reimburse the town for sums of
              money expended for such purposes, or both.

ARTICLE 31    Public consumption of Marijuana or
              Tetrahydrocannabinol
              VOTED
              To amend Article 31 as follows:
              After the word “consume” in the second line of
              paragraph 1, insert the following: (hereinafter
              collectively referred to as “Consumption”)

              Voted to amend Chapter 119 of the Town Bylaw by
              adopting the following Article IV: Chapter 119 Peace
              and Good Order, PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OF
              MARIJUANA OR TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL, as
              amended, as follows:




                           43
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


 Chapter 119 Peace and Good Order
 Article IV PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OF
 MARIJUANA OR TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL

 § 119-4 A. Prohibition on Use
 1.         Not in a Motor Vehicle: No person shall smoke,
 ingest, or otherwise use or consume (hereinafter
 collectively referred to as “Consumption”) marijuana
 or tetrahydrocannabinol (as defined in G.L. c. 94C, §1)
 while in or upon any public building, vehicle controlled
 by the Town, recreational area, playground, park, beach,
 boat landing or launch, schoolhouse, school grounds,
 street, sidewalk, public way, passageway, bridge, stairs,
 parking lot, cemetery, bus stop, or any area or property
 owned or under the control of the Town, or any area
 accessible to the public.
 2.         In a Motor Vehicle: The consumption of
 marijuana or tetrahydrocannabinol is also prohibited in
 any motor vehicle in or on a public way whether or not
 the user is operating the vehicle or whether the vehicle is
 in operation at all.

 § 119 –4 B. Violations and Penalties
 1.        Whoever violates this Bylaw shall be punished
 by a fine of three hundred dollars ($300) for each
 offense. Any penalty imposed under this Bylaw shall be
 in addition to any civil penalty imposed under G.L. c.
 94C, §32L. If a violator fails to pay the fine issued, he or
 she may be subject to civil contempt proceedings.
 § 119 – 4 C. Enforcement
 1.       Violations of any provision of this Bylaw may
 be processed pursuant to Chapter 40, section 21 D of the
 general laws of the Commonwealth and shall be in
 amount set forth above. Enforcement of this Bylaw under
 the Non-Criminal Disposition process shall be carried
 out by the Police Chief, and duly sworn Police Officers
 who shall have full enforcement powers.




               44
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


ARTICLE 32    Regional Emergency Center Communications Center
              VOTED
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 33    Sex Offender By-Law
              VOTED
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 34    Support for Merger of North Shore Technical High
              School and Essex Agricultural High School
              VOTED
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 35    North Shore Technical High School Building Project
              VOTED
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 36    North Shore Regional Vocational School District
              VOTED
              To approve the gross operating and maintenance budget
              of the North Shore Regional Vocational School District
              and appropriate the sum of $135,020.00 for the town’s
              assessment of the same to be expended by the School
              Committee.

ARTICLE 37    Facilities Permit
              VOTED
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 38    Proposed Demand Fee Level for Delinquent Taxes
              VOTED
              To charge for each written demand issued by the Town
              Collector a fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) to be added to
              and collected as part of the tax, as authorized by
              Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 60, Section 15,
              effective as of July 1, 2009.




                            45
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


ARTICLE 39              Amend Zoning By-Law
                        COUNTED VOTE
                        For               Against
                        306               3
                        To amend the zoning by law as follows: (bold text
                        added)
                  a.    Article II Definitions 200-7 Meaning of words. DECK
                        first sentence which presently reads “An unroofed
                        outdoor area whether of wood or other material, whose
                        floor is more than two feet above mean grade.” To read
                        instead “An unroofed outdoor structure whether of
                        wood or other material, with a floor which is more than
                        two feet above existing grade at any point.”

                  b.    Article 200-9 Interpretation of zone district boundaries
                        D. Shoreline and Harborfront District Boundaries Add a
                        new paragraph (5) In any shoreline district the side
                        yard setback requirement shall be applied to the
                        property line(s) that is most perpendicular to the
                        direction of the shoreline.

ARTICLE 40              Smart Growth Overlay District
                        UNANAMOUSLY VOTED
                        To propose that the Town of Marblehead vote to amend
                        the Marblehead Zoning Bylaw by adding a new § 200-44
                        entitled “Smart Growth Overlay District” to read as
                        follows:
                         §200-44. Smart Growth Overlay District (SG)

             A.         Purposes. The purposes of Smart Growth Overlay
                        Districts are:

                        (1)     To promote low impact, green, and sustainable
                                development that is pedestrian friendly.

                        (2)     To ensure high quality site planning,
                                architecture and landscape design that is
                                consistent with SG’s visual character and
                                identity of the Town of Marblehead.




                                     46
     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


      (3)      To establish development standards that ensure
               context-sensitive design and creative site
               planning in the reuse of existing buildings and
               construction of new buildings.

      (4)      To provide for diversified housing stock at a
               variety of costs in close proximity to the local
               bus lines, including affordable housing, that
               meets the needs of the Town’s population and
               promotes diversity.

      (5)      To generate positive tax revenue, and to benefit
               from the financial incentives provided by
               M.G.L. Ch. 40R, while providing the
               opportunity for housing choice among
               households of varying incomes, ages and sizes.

B.    Scope and Authority. A SG is established pursuant to
      the authority of M.G.L. Ch. 40R and 760 CMR 59.00,
      and shall be deemed to overlay the parcels as shown on
      the Zoning Map of the Town of Marblehead, as
      amended. At the option of the owner, development of
      land within a SG may be undertaken by means of a Plan
      Approval pursuant to the zoning controls set forth in this
      § 200-44 or by complying with all applicable zoning
      controls set forth in the Zoning Bylaw of the Town of
      Marblehead (Underlying Zoning). When a building
      permit is issued for any Development Project for which
      Plan Approval has been granted, all of the land shown on
      the Plan which was submitted pursuant to Section 200-
      44K of this By-Law shall be developed pursuant to this
      Section 200-44 and shall not be developed pursuant to
      the Underlying Zoning. Development Projects proposed
      pursuant to this § 200-44 shall be subject to all other
      applicable local, state and federal regulations.

C.    Establishment and Delineation of Smart Growth
      Overlay Districts. There are two Districts identified as
      SG Pleasant Street District (assessor map 129 parcel 20)
      and SG Vinnin Square District (assessor map 1 parcel 1).




                    47
     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


      The boundaries of the two Districts are delineated as SG
      Pleasant Street District and SG Vinnin Square District on
      the Zoning Map.

D.    Definitions. All definitions are as they appear in Section
      200-7 of the Marblehead Zoning Bylaw in effect as of
      the date of adoption of this Bylaw, (INSERT DATE OF
      BYLAW ADOPTION) 2009, with the exception of the
      following terms:

      CONSTRUCTION, START OR COMMENCEMENT
      NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR LOT
      NONCONFORMING USE
      SITE PREPARATION

      As used in this § 200-44, the following terms shall have
      the meanings set forth below. To the extent that there is
      any conflict between this § 200-44and M.G.L. Ch. 40R
      and / or 760 CMR 59.00, et seq., the latter shall control:

      AFFORDABLE HOMEOWNERSHIP UNIT – An
      Affordable Housing unit required to be sold to an
      Eligible Household in accordance with the requirements
      of this Bylaw.

      AFFORDABLE HOUSING – Housing that is affordable
      to and occupied by Eligible Households.

      AFFORDABLE HOUSING RESTRICTION – A deed
      restriction of Affordable Housing meeting the
      requirements in M.G.L. Ch. 184 § 31 and the
      requirements of this Bylaw.

      AFFORDABLE RENTAL UNIT – An Affordable
      Housing unit required to be rented to an Eligible
      Household in accordance with the requirements of this
      Bylaw.




                    48
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


 APPLICANT – A landowner or other petitioner that files
 a Plan for a Development Project subject to the
 provisions of the SG.

 APPROVING AUTHORITY – The Planning Board of
 the Town of Marblehead acting as the authority
 designated to review projects and issue approvals under
 this Bylaw.

 AS-OF-RIGHT DEVELOPMENT – A Development
 Project allowable under this Bylaw without recourse to a
 special permit, variance, zoning amendment, or other
 form of zoning relief. A Development Project that is
 subject to the Plan Review requirement of this Bylaw
 shall be considered an As-of-Right Development.

 DHCD – The Massachusetts Department of Housing and
 Community Development (DHCD) or any successor
 agency.

 DESIGN STANDARDS – The document entitled
 Marblehead Smart Growth Overlay District Design
 Standards, as amended, approved by DHCD May 1, 2009
 pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 40R, § 10. The Design
 Standards are applicable to all Development Projects
 within a SG that are subject to Plan Review by the
 Approving Authority.

 DEVELOPMENT LOT – One or more Lots meeting the
 dimensional requirements of this Bylaw which are
 designated as a Development Lot on a Plan for a
 Development Project proposed within a SG and for
 which Plan Approval is required under the provisions of
 this Bylaw. The lots comprising a Development Lot need
 not be in the same ownership but within the application
 review period the Applicant must demonstrate site
 control of all land shown on the Plan.

 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT – A residential or mixed-
 use development undertaken under this § 200-44. The




              49
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


 limits of a Development Project shall be identified on
 the Plan which is submitted to the Approving Authority
 for Plan Review.

 ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLD – An individual or household
 whose annual income is below eighty percent (80%) of
 the area-wide Median Household Income as determined
 by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
 Development (HUD), adjusted for household size, with
 income computed using HUD's rules for attribution of
 income to assets.

 HOUSEHOLD INCOME, MEDIAN – The median
 income, adjusted for household size, as reported by the
 most recent information from, or calculated from
 regulations promulgated by, the United States
 Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).

 MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT – A
 development that includes a building or buildings with a
 minimum of 25% of the floor area on the street level
 devoted to one or more Non-Residential use. A minimum
 of 50% of the total gross floor area in a Mixed-Use
 Development Project shall be devoted to residential uses.

 MONITORING AGENT– A qualified housing
 organization designated by the Marblehead Board of
 Selectmen with the power to monitor and to enforce
 compliance with the provisions of this Bylaw related to
 Affordable Housing units, including but not limited to
 computation of rental and sales prices; income eligibility
 of households applying for Affordable Housing units;
 administration of an approved housing marketing and
 resident selection plan; and recording and enforcement of
 an Affordable Housing Restriction for each Affordable
 Housing unit in a SG.

 MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT – A
 residential development that contains a building or
 buildings(s) with more than three Dwelling Units.




              50
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




 NON-RESIDENTIAL USE – A use that is listed as an
 allowed Retail and Consumer Service Use or an allowed
 Institutional and Recreational Use in the B1 Zoning
 District, without need for a special permit, in the Zoning
 Bylaws, Table 1 Land Use Regulations, in effect as of
 the date of adoption of this § 200-44.

 OFFICE – A place of business of a professional
 organization or the administration facility of a
 commercial or industrial organization.

 PLAN – Plans depicting a proposed Development
 Project for all or a portion of the SG and which is
 submitted to the Approving Authority for its review and
 approval in accordance with the provisions of this Bylaw
 and the Design Standards.

 PLAN APPROVAL – The Approving Authority’s
 authorization for a proposed Development Project based
 upon a finding of compliance with this Bylaw and
 Design Standards after the conduct of a Plan Review.

 PLAN REVIEW – The review procedure established by
 § K of this Bylaw and administered by the Planning
 Board of the Town of Marblehead as the Approving
 Authority.

 RENOVATION – Physical improvement that adds to the
 value of the real property. Painting, ordinary repairs, and
 other normal maintenance do not constitute a renovation.

 SETBACK – Please refer to ARTICLE V Dimensional
 Regulations § 200-15. B.(3) of the Marblehead Zoning
 Bylaw in effect as of the date of adoption of this Bylaw.

 SG or DISTRICT – The Smart Growth Overlay District,
 an overlay zoning district adopted pursuant to M.G.L.
 Ch. 40R, in accordance with the procedures for zoning
 adoption and amendment as set forth in M.G.L. Ch. 40A




               51
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                           and approved by the Department of Housing and
                           Community Development pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 40R
                           and 760 CMR 59.00.

                           UNDERLYING ZONING – The zoning requirements
                           adopted pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 40A that are otherwise
                           applicable to the geographic area in which the SG is
                           located, as said requirements may be amended from time
                           to time.

                           UNDULY RESTRICT – A provision of the SG or a
                           Design Standard that adds unreasonable costs or
                           unreasonably impairs the economic feasibility of a
                           proposed Development Project in a SG.

                           UNRESTRICTED UNIT – A Dwelling Unit that is not
                           restricted as to rent, price or eligibility of occupants.

                           ZONING BYLAW – The Zoning Bylaw of the Town of
                           Marblehead, Massachusetts, adopted in accordance with
                           and pursuant to the provisions of M.G.L. Ch. 40A.

                           ZONING MAP – The Zoning Map of the Town of
                           Marblehead, Massachusetts, adopted in accordance with
                           and pursuant to the provisions of M.G.L. Ch. 40A.

                  E.       Permitted Uses. The following uses shall be permitted
                           in the following Districts As-of-Right upon Plan
                           Approval, and at residential densities specified in Table
                           G. Table of Dimensional and Density Requirements:

Table E. Allowable Uses
                                                SG Pleasant Street         SG Vinnin
            Residence Uses
                                                       District          Square District
Multi-Family Development Project                         No1                   Yes
Mixed Use Development Project                            Yes                   Yes
1
  The Approving Authority may grant a waiver pursuant to § L of this Bylaw to allow
a Multi-Family Development Project in the SG Pleasant Street District upon a finding
that the inclusion of a non-residential use at the street level would Unduly Restrict
opportunities for development.




                                         52
      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


F.       Prohibited Uses or Activities in the SG.

     (1) Any use prohibited by the Underlying Zoning in effect as
         of the date of adoption of this Bylaw.


     (2) Any use not listed in § E of this Bylaw is expressly
         prohibited.

     (3) Non-Residential Uses permitted as-of-right pursuant to
         the Underlying Zoning are permitted pursuant to this
         Bylaw as part of a Mixed Use Development Project.

G.       Dimensional and Other Requirements.

     (1) New buildings within the SG shall be subject to the bulk,
         dimensional and density requirements in Table G. Table
         of Dimensional and Density Requirements:




                       53
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




            Table G. Table of Dimensional and Density Requirements.
                                                  Min.      Min.      Min.
           Min.        Max.           Min.                                      Min.
                                                  Front     Side      Rear             Max
           Lot         Residential    Frontage                                  Open
District                                          Setback   Setback   Setback          . Ht.
           Area        Density        (linear                                   Area
                                                  (linear   (linear   (linear          (ft.)
           (sq. ft.)   (units/acre)   ft.)                                      (%)
                                                  ft.)      ft.)      ft.)
SG
Pleasant
            10,000 51              35         N          (1)       (1)      N        50
Street
District
SG
Vinnin
            10,000 30              35         N          (1)       (1)      (2)      42
Square
District
Notes:
N – None
(1) – Except as to any boundary abutting any other business district, six feet; as to any
boundary abutting any residential district, nine feet. May be reduced at the discretion
of the Approving Authority.
(2) – One square foot of open land area (in addition to the areas of required parking
spaces for such lot) for each two square feet of gross floor area.




                                             54
 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




(2) Building Renovation. Renovation of existing buildings
    may maintain existing building footprints, and may only
    expand such footprints insofar as such expansion is in
    compliance with the required dimensional requirements
    for new buildings.

(3) Portions of the Lot in the SG Vinnin Square District are
    located in the Town of Swampscott and in the City of
    Salem. If a Development Project proposed in the SG
    Vinnin Square District includes development in another
    municipality, allowable density in the Town of
    Marblehead will be calculated based on the area of land
    within the Town of Marblehead.

(4) Fractional Units. When the application of the allowable
    densities specified in Table G. Table of Dimensional and
    Density Requirements results in a number that includes a
    fraction, the fraction shall be rounded up to the next
    whole number if the fraction is 0.5 or more. If the result
    includes a fraction below 0.5, the fraction shall be
    rounded down to the next whole number.

(5) Signage. Commercial signage proposed within a Mixed-
    Use Development Project shall be subject to the
    procedures and requirements of the Marblehead Sign By-
    Law, Chapter 148 of the Marblehead General By-Laws,
    in effect as of the date of adoption of this Bylaw.


(6) Noise. An Application proposing the installation of
    exterior venting air conditioners, ventilators, blowers and
    similar equipment shall be required to demonstrate to the
    Approving Authority that the noise produced by such
    equipment will not be in excess of 60 decibels at 20 feet
    in any direction, or the distance to the nearest building
    having a residential use, whichever is the lesser. Upon
    construction and occupancy, noise from the
    Development Project, including resulting from air




                  55
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                     conditioners, ventilators, blowers and similar equipment,
                     shall at all times comply with this requirement.


                 (7) Stormwater. Proposed Development Projects shall be
                     subject to Marblehead By-law chapter 195 Stormwater
                     Management and Erosion Control, in effect as of the date
                     of adoption of this § 200-44, as applicable.

            H.       Off-Street Parking.

              (1)    Off-street parking in the Districts shall be provided in
                     order to meet or exceed the following minimum
                     requirements:


                 Table H. Off-Street Parking Minimum Required Parking
             Use                      Vinnin                Pleasant
Dwelling Unit (1 bedroom)      2.0 spaces            1.0 spaces
Dwelling Unit (2 bedrooms)     2.0 spaces            1.5 spaces
Dwelling Unit (3 bedrooms)     2.0 spaces            2.0 spaces
Dwelling Unit (4 bedrooms)     2.0 spaces            2.5 spaces
                               1.0 space /300 square 1.0 space /500 square
Non-residential Use
                               feet                  feet


                 (2) Fractional Spaces. When the application of the minimum
                     required parking standards in this § H results in a number
                     that includes a fraction, the fraction shall be rounded up
                     to the next whole number if the fraction is 0.5 or more. If
                     the result includes a fraction below 0.5, the fraction shall
                     be rounded down to the next whole number.

                 (3) Location of parking. Any surface parking lot shall be
                     located at the side or rear of a building, relative to any
                     public right-of-way or public open space. In no case shall
                     surface parking for new construction be permitted within
                     the required front setbacks. Sub-surface parking that
                     requires blasting may be disallowed if the Approving
                     Authority finds, based on the results of a geotechnical




                                   56
  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


    analysis, that it is not possible to mitigate any
    extraordinary adverse impact of blasting on nearby
    properties.

(4) The Approving Authority may grant a Plan Approval
    making such modifications in the parking standards or
    prescribe safeguards and conditions as it shall warrant
    appropriate, provided that it finds that it is impractical to
    meet the standards and that such modifications are
    appropriate by reason of the proposed use and will not
    result in or worsen parking or traffic problems in or in
    proximity to the SG. The Approving Authority may
    impose conditions of use or occupancy appropriate to
    such modifications.


(5) Shared use of required parking. At the discretion of the
    Approving Authority, shared use may be made of
    required parking spaces by intermittent use
    establishments such as churches, assembly halls, or
    theaters whose peak parking demand is only at night or
    on Sundays and by other uses whose peak demand is
    only during the day. In order for such shared parking to
    be eligible to satisfy required off-street parking standards
    in whole or in part, prior to Plan Approval a formal
    agreement shall be made in writing by the owners of the
    uses involved concerning the number of spaces involved,
    substantiation of the fact that such shared use is not
    overlapping or in conflict, and the duration of the
    agreement. Required spaces shall be within 300 feet of
    the main entrance to the principal buildings served by the
    shared parking.


(6) The Approving Authority may require additional visitor
    parking beyond the maximum required spaces per unit if
    deemed appropriate given the design, layout, use and/or
    density of the proposed Development Project.




                   57
      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


     (7) Construction Standards. Each parking space shall be at
         least nine feet wide and 20 feet long and shall be
         designed with appropriate means of vehicular access to a
         street as well as maneuvering areas. Access and
         maneuvering areas shall not be obstructed or used for the
         parking of motor vehicles. Parking shall be designed and
         constructed to comply with all applicable disability
         access requirements including but not limited to the
         Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and the
         Massachusetts Architectural Access Board (AAB).

I.       Design Standards. To ensure that new development
         shall be of high quality, and shall meet the standards
         envisioned by the Town of Marblehead in adopting this
         Bylaw, the Approving Authority shall adopt the
         Marblehead Smart Growth Overlay District Design
         Standards as approved by DHCD on May 1, 2009
         governing the issuance of Plan Approvals for
         Development Projects within the SG and shall file a copy
         with the Town Clerk. In addition to the standards set
         forth in this Bylaw, the physical character of
         Development Projects within the SG shall comply with
         such Design Standards. In the event of any conflict
         between this Bylaw and the Design Standards, this
         Bylaw shall govern and prevail.

     (1) The Approving Authority may adopt, by simple majority
         vote, amendments to the Design Standards.

     (2) Before adopting any amendment to the Design
         Standards, the Approving Authority shall submit the
         proposed amendment to DHCD for approval. Any
         amendment to the Design Standards shall not take effect
         until approved by DHCD and filed with the Town Clerk.

     (3) Any amendment to the Design Standards must be
         objective and not subjective and may only address the
         scale and proportions of buildings, the alignment, width,
         and grade of streets and sidewalks, the type and location
         of infrastructure, the location of building and garage




                       58
       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


         entrances, off street parking, the protection of significant
         natural site features, the location and design of on-site
         open spaces, exterior signs, and buffering in relation to
         adjacent properties. DHCD may, at its discretion, require
         any amendment to the Design Standards to contain
         graphics illustrating a particular standard or definition in
         order to make such standard or definition clear and
         understandable.

     (4) An application for Plan Approval that has been
         submitted to the Town Clerk pursuant to Section 200-44
         K shall not be subject to any Design Standard that has
         not been approved by DHCD and filed with the Town
         Clerk.

J.       Affordable Housing.

     (1) Number of Affordable Housing units. Twenty percent
         (20%) of all Dwelling Units constructed in a
         Development Project shall be Affordable Housing units
         provided, however, that twenty-five percent (25%) of all
         rental dwelling units in a Development Project shall be
         Affordable Housing units. For Development Projects in
         which all of the Dwelling Units are limited to occupancy
         by elderly persons and/or by persons with disabilities,
         twenty-five percent (25%) of the Dwelling Units shall be
         Affordable Housing units, whether the Dwelling Units
         are rental or ownership units.

     (2) Fractional Units. When the application of the
         percentages specified in sub-section J(1) results in a
         number that includes a fraction, the fraction shall be
         rounded up to the next whole number if the fraction is
         0.5 or more. If the result includes a fraction below 0.5,
         the fraction shall be rounded down to the next whole
         number.

     (3) Affordable Housing units shall comply with the
         following requirements:




                       59
 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


    (a)     The monthly rent payment for an Affordable
            Rental Unit, including utilities and parking,
            shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
            maximum monthly income permissible for an
            Eligible Household, with price determined
            assuming a Family size equal to the number of
            bedrooms in the unit plus one unless other
            affordable program rent limits approved by
            DHCD shall apply;
    (b)     For an Affordable Homeownership Unit the
            monthly housing payment, including mortgage
            principal and interest, private mortgage
            insurance, property taxes, condominium and/or
            homeowner's association fees, insurance, and
            parking, shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of
            the maximum monthly income permissible for
            an Eligible Household, assuming a Family size
            equal to the number of bedrooms in the
            Dwelling Unit plus one; and
    (c)     Affordable Housing units required to be offered
            for rent or sale shall be rented or sold to and
            occupied only by Eligible Households.

(4) Design and construction.

    (a)     Design. Affordable Housing units must be
            comparable in initial construction quality and
            exterior design to the Unrestricted Units.
            However, nothing in this section is intended to
            limit a homebuyer’s rights to renovate a
            Dwelling Unit under applicable law. The
            Affordable Housing units must have access to
            all on-site amenities. The total number of
            bedrooms in the Affordable Housing units shall
            be at least proportionate to the total number of
            bedrooms in all units in the Development
            Project.
    (b)     Timing. All Affordable Housing units must be
            constructed and occupied not later than
            concurrently with construction and occupancy




                 60
 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


            of Unrestricted Units. For any Development
            Project that is approved in phases, the
            proportion of Affordable Housing units shall be
            consistent across all phases.

(5) Affordable housing restriction. Each Affordable Housing
    unit shall be subject to an Affordable Housing
    Restriction which is recorded with the Essex County
    Registry of Deeds or Land Court Registry District of
    Essex County. The Affordable Housing Restriction shall
    provide for the implementation of the requirements of
    this Bylaw. All Affordable Housing Restrictions must
    include, at minimum, the following:

    (a)     Description of the Development Project,
            including whether the Affordable Housing unit
            will be rented or owner-occupied.
    (b)     A description of the Affordable
            Homeownership Unit, if any, by address and
            number of bedrooms; and a description of the
            overall quantity and number of bedrooms and
            number of bedroom types of Affordable Rental
            Units in a Project or portion of a Project which
            are rental. Such restriction shall apply
            individually to the specifically identified
            Affordable Homeownership Unit and shall
            apply to a percentage of rental units of a rental
            Project or the rental portion of a Project without
            specific unit identification.
    (c)     The term of the Affordable Housing Restriction
            shall be the longest period customarily allowed
            by law but shall be no less than thirty (30)
            years.
    (d)     The name and address of the Monitoring Agent
            with a designation of its power to monitor and
            enforce the Affordable Housing Restriction. In a
            case where the Monitoring Agent cannot
            adequately carry out its administrative duties,
            upon certification of this fact by the Marblehead
            Board of Selectmen or by DHCD such duties




                 61
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


       shall devolve to and thereafter be administered
       by a qualified housing entity designated by the
       Marblehead Board of Selectmen.
 (e)   Reference to a housing marketing and resident
       selection plan, to which the Affordable Housing
       unit is subject, and which includes an
       affirmative fair housing marketing program,
       including public notice and a fair resident
       selection process. If approved by DHCD, the
       housing marketing and selection plan may
       provide for preferences in resident selection.
       The plan shall designate the household size
       appropriate for a unit with respect to bedroom
       size and provide that preference for such unit
       shall be given to a household of the appropriate
       size.
 (f)   A requirement that buyers or tenants will be
       selected at the initial sale or initial rental and
       upon all subsequent sales and rentals from a list
       of Eligible Households compiled in accordance
       with the housing marketing and selection plan.
 (g)   Reference to the formula pursuant to which rent
       of a rental unit or the maximum resale price of a
       homeownership unit will be set.
 (h)   A requirement that only an Eligible Household
       may reside in an Affordable Housing unit and
       that notice of any lease or sublease of any
       Affordable Housing unit to another Eligible
       Household shall be given to the Monitoring
       Agent.
 (i)   Provision for effective monitoring and
       enforcement of the terms and provisions of the
       Affordable Housing Restriction by the
       Monitoring Agent.
 (j)   Provision that the restriction on an Affordable
       Homeownership Unit shall run in favor of the
       Monitoring Agent and the Town of Marblehead,
       in a form approved by municipal counsel, and
       shall limit initial sale and re-sale to and
       occupancy by an Eligible Household.




           62
 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


    (k)     Provision that the restriction on Affordable
            Rental Units in a rental Development Project or
            rental portion of a Development Project shall
            run with the rental Development Project or
            rental portion of a Development Project and
            shall run in favor of the Monitoring Agent and
            the Town of Marblehead, in a form approved by
            municipal counsel, and shall limit rental and
            occupancy to an Eligible Household.
    (l)     Provision that the owner(s) or manager(s) of
            Affordable Rental Unit(s) shall file an annual
            report to the Monitoring Agent , in a form
            specified by that agent certifying compliance
            with the provisions of this Bylaw and
            containing such other information as may be
            reasonably requested in order to ensure
            affordability.
    (m)     A requirement that residents in Affordable
            Housing units provide such information as the
            Monitoring Agent may reasonably request in
            order to ensure affordability eligibility and
            compliance.
    (n)     Designation of the priority of the Affordable
            Housing Restriction over mortgages and other
            restrictions.

(6) Administration. The Monitoring Agent shall ensure the
    following:

    (a)     Prices of Affordable Homeownership Units are
            properly computed; rental amounts of
            Affordable Rental Units are properly computed.
    (b)     Income eligibility of households applying for
            Affordable Housing units is properly and
            reliably determined.
    (c)     The housing marketing and resident selection
            plan conforms to all requirements and is
            properly administered.
    (d)     Sales and rentals are made to Eligible
            Households chosen in accordance with the




                 63
      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                  housing marketing and resident selection plan
                  with appropriate unit size for each household
                  being properly determined and proper
                  preference being given.
         (e)      Affordable Housing Restrictions meeting the
                  requirements of this section are recorded with
                  the Essex County Registry of Deeds or Land
                  Court Registry District of Essex County.

     (7) The housing marketing and selection plan may make
         provision for payment by the Applicant of reasonable
         costs to the Monitoring Agent to develop, advertise, and
         maintain the list of Eligible Households, to conduct the
         housing lottery, and to monitor and enforce compliance
         with affordability requirements over time.

K.       Administration. The Approving Authority shall adopt
         and file with the Town Clerk administrative rules relative
         to the application requirements and contents for Plan
         Review. Such administrative rules may be included as a
         separate section within the approved Design Standards.
         Such administrative rules and any amendment thereto
         must be approved by the Massachusetts Department of
         Housing and Community Development. The Plan
         Review process encompasses the following, as may be
         supplemented by the administrative rules:

     (1) Pre-application review. The Applicant is encouraged to
         participate in a pre-application review with the
         Approving Authority at a regular meeting(s) of the
         Approving Authority. The purpose of the pre-application
         review is to obtain the advice and direction of the
         Approving Authority prior to filing the application,
         including determining whether additional technical
         analyses listed in § K(2)(c) may be required. At the pre-
         application review the Applicant shall outline the
         proposal and seek preliminary feedback from the
         Approving Authority, other municipal review entities,
         and other members of the public. The Applicant is also
         encouraged to request a site visit by the Approving




                       64
 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


    Authority and/or its designee in order to facilitate pre-
    application review.

(2) Application procedures.

    (a)      An application for Plan Approval shall be filed
             by the Applicant with the Town Clerk and a
             copy of the application including the date of
             filing certified by the Town Clerk shall be filed
             forthwith with the Approving Authority. The
             Applicant shall also file the required number of
             copies of the application with the Building
             Inspector and with the Approving Authority.
             Said filing shall include any required forms
             provided by the Approving Authority.
    (b)      As part of any application for Plan Approval,
             the Applicant must submit the following
             documents to the Approving Authority and the
             Administering Agency:

             (1)       Evidence that the Development Project
             complies with the cost and eligibility
             requirements of § J (3). Affordable Housing;
             (2)       Development Project plans that
             demonstrate compliance with the requirements
             of § J (4). Affordable Housing; and
             (3)       A form of Affordable Housing
             Restriction that satisfies the requirements of § J
             (5). Affordable Housing.

    (c)     As part of any application for Plan Approval, the
             Applicant may be required to submit one or
             more of the following technical analyses to the
             Approving Authority:

             (1)      Surface and water pollution. A report
             on the impact of stormwater runoff on adjacent
             and downstream surface water bodies,
             subsurface groundwater and the water table.




                  65
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


       (2)       Soils. The potential dangers of erosion
       and sedimentation caused by the operation and
       maintenance of the proposed development.
       (3)       Geotechnical Analysis. If sub-surface
       blasting is proposed an analysis by a certified
       geotechnical engineer shall be required in
       accordance with M.G.L. Ch. 148 showing
       whether such blasting will have any
       extraordinary adverse impacts on nearby
       property.
       (4)       Traffic impact. A report on existing
       street capacities, estimated average daily traffic
       generation, composition, peak hour levels and
       directional flows resulting from the proposed
       development, proposed methods to mitigate the
       estimated traffic impact and methodology and
       sources used to derive existing data and
       estimations.
       (5)       Sample board. Identification of all
       major exterior materials, colors and finishes.
       (6)       Noise. Documentation as necessary to
       demonstrate that the noise produced by exterior
       venting air conditioners, ventilators, blowers
       and similar equipment will not be in excess of
       60 decibels at 20 feet in any direction, or the
       distance to the nearest building having a
       residential use, whichever is the lesser.

 (d)   Review fees. The Applicant shall be required to
       pay for reasonable consulting fees to provide
       peer review of the application for the benefit of
       the Approving Authority. Such fees shall be
       held by the Town of Marblehead in an interest-
       bearing escrow account, and shall be used only
       for expenses associated with the use of outside
       consultants employed by the Approving
       Authority in reviewing the Plan application.
       Any surplus funds remaining after the
       completion of such review, including any




            66
 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


             interest accrued, shall be returned to the
             Applicant forthwith.
    (e)      Upon receipt by the Approving Authority,
             applications for Plan Approval shall be
             distributed to the Board of Selectmen, Board of
             Health, Fair Housing Committee, Building
             Inspector, Conservation Commission, Zoning
             Board of Appeals, Department of Public Works,
             the Fire and Police Departments and the Water
             and Sewer Commission. Any reports from these
             parties shall be submitted to the Approving
             Authority within sixty (60) days of filing of the
             application.
    (f)      Within thirty (30) days of filing of an
             application with the Approving Authority, the
             Approving Authority or its designee shall
             evaluate the proposal with regard to its
             completeness and shall submit an advisory
             report in writing to the Applicant certifying the
             completeness of the application. Where an
             application is found to be incomplete, the
             Approving Authority or its designee shall
             provide a statement outlining required items that
             were missing from the application. The
             Approving Authority or its designee shall
             forward to the Applicant, with its report, copies
             of all recommendations received to date from
             other boards, commissions or departments.

(3) Public hearing. The Approving Authority shall hold a
    public hearing and review all applications according to
    the procedure specified in M.G.L. Ch. 40R § 11.

(4) Prior to the granting of any Plan Approval for a
    Development Project, the Applicant must demonstrate, to
    the satisfaction of the Monitoring Agent or, in the event
    that a Monitoring Agent has not yet been named, to the
    satisfaction of the Approving Authority, that the method
    by which such affordable rents or affordable purchase
    prices are computed shall be consistent with state or




                  67
 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


    federal guidelines for affordability applicable to the
    Town of Marblehead.


(5) Plan Approval decision.

    (a)      The Approving Authority shall make a decision
             on the application for Plan Approval by a
             simple majority vote and shall file said decision
             with the Town Clerk, within 120 days of the
             receipt of the application by the Town Clerk.
             The time limit for public hearings and taking of
             action by the Approving Authority may be
             extended by written agreement between the
             Applicant and the Approving Authority. A copy
             of such agreement shall be filed with the Town
             Clerk.
    (b)      Failure of the Approving Authority to take
             action within 120 days or extended time, if
             applicable, shall be deemed to be an approval of
             the application.
    (c)      An Applicant who seeks approval because of
             the Approving Authority’s failure to act on an
             application within the 120 days or extended
             time, if applicable, must notify the Town Clerk
             in writing, within fourteen (14) days from the
             expiration of said time limit for a decision, of
             such approval and that a copy of that notice has
             been sent by the Applicant to parties in interest
             by mail and that each such notice specifies that
             appeals, if any, shall be made pursuant to
             M.G.L. Ch. 40R and shall be filed within
             twenty (20) days after the date the Town Clerk
             received such written notice from the Applicant
             that the Approving Authority failed to act
             within the time prescribed.
    (d)      The Approving Authority’s findings, including
             the basis of such findings, shall be stated in a
             written decision of approval, conditional
             approval or denial of the Plan Approval




                  68
 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


             application. The written decision shall contain
             the name and address of the Applicant,
             identification of the land affected and its
             ownership, and reference by date and title to the
             plans that were the subject of the decision.
    (e)      The decision of the Approving Authority,
             together with the detailed reasons therefore,
             shall be filed with the Town Clerk, the Board of
             Appeals and the Building Inspector. A copy of
             the decision shall be mailed to the Applicant
             and to the owner if other than the Applicant by
             the Approving Authority certifying that a copy
             of the decision has been filed with the Town
             Clerk and that all plans referred to in the
             decision are on file with the Approving
             Authority. A notice of the decision shall be sent
             to parties in interest and to persons who
             requested a notice at the public hearing.
    (f)      Effective date. If twenty (20) days have elapsed
             after the decision has been filed in the office of
             the Town Clerk without an appeal having been
             filed or if such appeal, having been filed, is
             dismissed or denied, the Town Clerk shall so
             certify on a copy of the decision. If the
             application is approved by reason of the failure
             of the Approving Authority to timely act, the
             Town Clerk shall make such certification on a
             copy of the application. A copy of the decision
             or application shall be recorded with the title of
             the land in question in the Essex County
             Registry of Deeds or the Essex Land Registry
             District, and indexed in the grantor index under
             the name of the owner of record or recorded and
             noted on the owner’s certificate of title. The
             responsibility and the cost of said recording and
             transmittal shall be borne by the Applicant.

(6) Criteria for approval. The Approving Authority shall
    approve the Development Project upon finding that it




                 69
 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


    complies with the requirements of the SG and applicable
    Design Standards.

(7) Criteria for conditional approval. The Approving
    Authority may impose conditions on a Development
    Project as necessary to ensure compliance with this §
    200-44 and applicable Design Standards, or to mitigate
    any extraordinary adverse impacts of the Development
    Project on nearby properties, insofar as such conditions
    are compliant with the provisions of M.G.L. Ch. 40R and
    applicable regulations and do not Unduly Restrict
    opportunities for development. The Approving Authority
    may require construction of an approved Development
    Project to be phased for the purpose of coordinating the
    Development Project with any mitigation required to
    address extraordinary adverse Development Project
    impacts on nearby properties.


(8) Criteria for denial. The Approving Authority may deny
    an application for Plan Approval pursuant to this Bylaw
    if the Board finds one or more of the following:

    (a)      The Development Project does not meet the
             conditions and requirements set forth in the SG
             and applicable Design Standards.
    (b)      The Applicant failed to submit information and
             fees required by the SG and necessary for an
             adequate and timely review of the design of the
             Development Project or potential Development
             Project impacts.
    (c)      It is not possible to adequately mitigate
             significant adverse Development Project
             impacts on nearby properties by means of
             suitable conditions.

(9) Time limit. A Plan Approval shall remain valid and shall
    run with the land indefinitely provided that construction
    has commenced within two (2) years after the decision
    issues, which time shall be extended by the time required




                  70
       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


         to adjudicate any appeal from such approval. Said time
         shall also be extended if the project proponent is actively
         pursuing other required permits for the project or if there
         is good cause for the failure to commence construction,
         or as may be provided in an approval for a multi-phase
         Development Project.

     (10) Appeals. Pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 40R, § 11, any person
          aggrieved by a decision of the Approving Authority may
          appeal to the Superior Court, the Land Court department,
          or the Housing Court department within twenty (20) days
          after the Plan decision has been filed in the office of the
          Town Clerk.

L.       Waivers. The Approving Authority may at its discretion
         authorize waivers in the Plan Approval with respect to
         the dimensional and other standards set forth in this §
         200-44 and in the Design Standards upon a finding that
         such waiver will allow the Development Project to
         achieve the density, affordability and/or physical
         character allowable under this Bylaw. However, the
         Approving Authority may not waive any portion of the
         Affordable Housing requirements in § J. Affordable
         Housing except insofar as such waiver results in the
         creation of a number of Affordable Housing units in
         excess of the minimum number of required Affordable
         Housing units.


M.       Fair Housing Requirement. All Development Projects
         within the SG shall comply with applicable federal, state
         and local fair housing laws.

N.       Annual Update. On or before July 31 of each year, the
         Board of Selectmen shall cause to be filed an Annual
         Update with the Department of Housing and Community
         Development (DHCD) in a form to be prescribed by
         DHCD. The Annual Update shall contain all information
         required in 760 CMR 59.07, as may be amended from
         time to time, and additional information as may be




                       71
     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


      required pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 40S and accompanying
      regulations. The Town Clerk shall maintain a copy of all
      updates transmitted to DHCD pursuant to this Bylaw,
      with said copies to be made available upon request for
      public review.

O.    Notification of Issuance of Building Permits. Upon
      issuance of a residential building permit within the SG,
      the Building Inspector shall cause to be filed an
      application to the DHCD in a form to be prescribed by
      DHCD, for authorization of payment of a one-time
      density bonus payment for each residential building
      permit pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 40R. The application shall
      contain all information required in 760 CMR 59.06 (2),
      as may be amended from time to time, and additional
      information as may be required pursuant to M.G.L. Ch.
      40S and accompanying regulations. The Town Clerk
      shall maintain a copy of all such applications transmitted
      to DHCD pursuant to this Bylaw, with said copies to be
      made available upon request for public review.

P.    Date of effect. The effective date of this Bylaw shall be
      the date on which such adoption is voted upon by Town
      Meeting pursuant to the requirements of M.G.L. Ch. 40A
      § 5 and M.G.L. Ch. 40R; provided, however, that an
      Applicant may not proceed with construction pursuant to
      this Bylaw prior to the receipt of final approval of this
      Bylaw and accompanying Zoning Map by both the
      Department of Housing and Community Development
      and the Office of the Massachusetts Attorney General.

Q.    Severability. The provisions of this section are
      severable. If any provision of this section is held invalid,
      the other provisions shall not be affected but shall remain
      in full force.


      And to further amend the Zoning Bylaw § 200-8 (A) to
      add to the list of Zone districts the following:




                    72
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                      “SG Smart Growth Overlay District”

              Or take any other action relative thereto.
ARTICLE 41    Landfill Regulatory Compliance Activities
              VOTED
              That the sum of $242,400.00 is appropriated to be
              expended by the Board of Health for continued water
              quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk assessment,
              engineering and any other services related to the Old
              Landfill; $114,600 to be raised by taxation and $127,800
              subject to a proposition 2 ½ capital outlay expenditure
              override.
              Provided; that the appropriation in the amount of
              $127,800 shall not take effect until the Town votes to
              exempt from the limitations on total taxes imposed by
              G.L.c.59, section 21C (Proposition 2 ½) amounts
              required for said capital outlay expenditures.

ARTICLE 42    Disposal Area Remediation/Stoneybrook Rd.
              VOTED
              That the sum of $505,000.00 is appropriated to be
              expended by the Board of Health for disposal area
              remediation as it relates to Stoneybrook Road and private
              property(s) on Stoneybrook Rd., some of which abut
              land owned by the Town of Marblehead; provided; that
              this vote shall not take effect until the Town votes to
              exempt from the limitations on total taxes imposed by
              G.L.c.59, section 21C (Proposition 2 ½) amounts
              required for said capital outlay expenditures.

ARTICLE 43    Litchmans Terrace Open Space
              VOTED
              To transfer the care, custody, management and control of
              a portion of the following described parcel of land
              known as Parcel 29 on Marblehead Assessor’s Map 136
              which is owned by the Town of Marblehead to the
              Marblehead Conservation Commission for Open Space
              Purposes. Said entire parcel of land is described as a
              certain parcel of land owned by the Town of Marblehead
              containing 1.153 acres and lying between a proposed




                           73
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


 road off Turner Road to the northwest and Litchman is
 bounded as follows:

 NORTHWEST by said proposed road (45 feet in width)
 off Turner Road:
 NORTHEAST by land now or Bryan C. and Sara W.
 Segee (12 Turner Road), Steven J. Elliott and Jane L.
 Knight (10 Turner Road), Sharon A. Trainor (76 Green
 Street), Linda W. Boynton (72 Green Street), Vlad Farfel
 (68 Green Street) and Robert L. and Michele McKay (66
 Green Street);
 SOUTHEAST by Litchman Terrace;
 SOUTHWEST by land now or formerly of Paul and
 Sophia Moroz (24 Taft Street), Joanne N. Jauron (22 Taft
 Street), Lewis W. II and Kristine E. Farrar (20 Taft
 Street), Martha M. Stiles (18 Taft Street), William J. and
 Constance M. Willis (16 Taft Street) and Louise M
 Antoniolli (14 Taft Street)
 The parcel of land described above is identified by the
 term “Reservation” on a plan entitled “Town of
 Marblehead, Turner Estate, Lot Plan” dated October 22,
 1941, R. O. Burlingham, Town Engineer, recorded with
 Essex South District Registry of Deeds, Plan Book 73,
 Plan 82. The “Reservation” parcel shown on the 1941
 plan has been modified by the layout of Litchman
 Terrace in 1969 as shown on plan entitled “Town of
 Marblehead, Litchman Terrace Layout (In Part)” dated
 September 24, 1968, George H. Clark, Jr., Town
 Engineer, on file in the Office of the Town Engineer,
 Marblehead, MA 01945.

 Said portion of land to be transferred to the Conservation
 Commission shall include the above description but shall
 not include a portion of the parcel of land which consists
 of a 40-ft wide strip of land running parallel to and
 adjacent to Litchman Terrace as shown on Plan entitled
 “Town Land off Litchman Terrace, Marblehead, MA
 01945” dated January 2009 on file in the Office of the
 Town Engineer, Marblehead, MA 01945. Said strip of
 land to be excluded contains about 4,000 square feet




              74
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


              (0.09 acres) and is to remain under the care, custody,
              management and control of the Marblehead Board of
              Selectmen.


ARTICLE 44    Land Acquisition, Naugus Avenue
              VOTED
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 45    School Department Computer, Support Equipment,
              and Technology Infrastructure
              VOTED
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 46    Schools Construction and or Renovation Program
              VOTED
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 47    Fiscal 2009 Expenses of Several Departments
              VOTED
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 48    Available Funds Appropriated to Reduce the Tax
              Rate
              VOTED
              That the sum of $4,222,169.00 be appropriated for the
              use of the Assessors in making the Tax Rate.
                       From Free Cash             $3,892,169.00
                       From Electric Surplus         330,000.00
                                                  $4,222,169.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 1 Moderator
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $100.00 be and hereby is appropriated
              for the Moderator as follows:
              Item     1       Officials Expense       $100.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 2 3 4 5 6 Selectmen




                            75
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


              VOTED:
              That the sum of $428,871.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Selectmen as follows:
              Item 2 Officials Expense                   $ 5,500.00
              Item 3 Salaries & Wages                     322,208.00
              Item 4 Expense                               92,163.00
              Item 5 Zoning Board Legal Services            7,000.00
              Item 6 Out of State Travel                    2,000.00
                                                         $428,871.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 7 8 9 Finance Committee
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $13,747.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Finance Committee as follows:
              Item 7            Salaries & Wages           $ 7,987.00
              Item 8            Expense                      5,585.00
              Item 9            Local Travel                   175.00
                                                           $13,747.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 10 Reserve Fund
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $144,000.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Reserve Fund.

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 12 13       Finance Department
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $866,046.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Finance Department as follows:
              Item 12           Salaries & Wages         $ 619,841.00
              Item 13           Expense                    246,205.00
                                                         $ 866,046.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 17 18 19 20          Assessor
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $202,439.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Assessor as follows:




                           76
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


              Item 17           Officials Expense        $     300.00
              Item 18           Salaries & Wages           167,954.00
              Item 19           Expense                     33,985.00
              Item 20           Local Travel                   200.00
                                                         $ 202,439.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 29 30       Town Counsel
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $64,932.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Town Counsel as follows:
              Item 29           Salaries & Wages         $ 2,000.00
              Item 30           Expense                     62,932.00
                                                         $ 64,932.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 35         Parking Clerk
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $10,484.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Parking Clerk Department as
              follows:
              Item 35                 Expense      $ 10,484.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 39 40       Town Clerk
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $154,725.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Town Clerk as follows:
              Item 39           Salaries & Wages          $147,188.00
              Item 40           Expense                      7,537.00
                                                          $154,725.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 43 44       Election and Registration
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $33,565.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Election and Registration as follows:
              Item 43           Salaries & Wages           $ 12,950.00
              Item 44           Expense                       20,615.00
                                                           $ 33,565.00




                           77
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 50           Planning Board
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $1,675.00 be and hereby is appropriated
              for the Planning Board as follows:
              Item 50           Expense                  $1,675.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 55 56 57             Public Buildings
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $183,131.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Public Buildings as follows:
              Item 55           Salaries & Wages            $ 81,631.00
              Item 56           Expense                      101,100.00
              Item 57           Local Travel                     400.00
                                                            $183,131.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 59                  Town Report
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $4,300.00 be and hereby is appropriated
              for the Town Report to be expended by the Board of
              Selectmen.

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 60                  Town Audit
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $42,000.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Town Audit to be expended by the
              Board of Selectmen.




                           78
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 62 63 64             Police Department
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $3,148,050.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Police Department as follows:
              Item 62 Salaries & Wages                $2,945,651.00
              Item 63 Expense                             192,399.00
              Item 64 Indemnification of Officers          10,000.00
                                                      $3,148,050.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 68 69                Fire Department
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $2,806,014.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Fire Department as follows:
              Item 68           Salaries & Wages       $ 2,670,916.00
              Item 69           Expense                    135,098.00
                                                       $2,806,014.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 73 74 75             Building Inspection
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $442,698.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for Building Inspection as follows:
              Item 73           Salaries & Wages           $429,943.00
              Item 74           Expense                        9,755.00
              Item 75           Local Travel                   3,000.00
                                                           $442,698.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 80            Sealer of Weights and Measures
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $150.00 be and hereby is appropriated
              for the Sealer of Weights and Measures as follows:
              Item 80            Expense                      $150.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 86         Animal Inspector
              VOTED:




                           79
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


              That the sum of $2,400.00 be and hereby is appropriated
              for the Animal Inspector as follows:
              Item 86           Salaries                   $2,400.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 101                  School Department
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $27,421,550.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the School Department.

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 105 106 107          Engineer
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $125,172.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Engineer as follows:
              Item 105          Salaries & Wages        $114,277.00
              Item 106          Expense                   10,395.00
              Item 107          Local Travel                 500.00
                                                        $125,172.00

              To meet this appropriation, $3,000.00 is to be transferred
              from Wetland Filing Fees and $122,172.00 to be taken
              from Taxation.

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 112 113              Highway
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $758,578.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Highway as follows:
              Item 112          Salaries & Wages       $672,644.00
              Item 113          Expense                  85,934.00
                                                       $758,578.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 116 Rebuild, Maintain or Hot Top Streets
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $33,750.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated to rebuild or hot top certain streets and said
              work to be done under the direction of the Director of




                            80
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


              Public Works and said sum of money to be expended by
              the Director of Public Works.

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 117          Snow Removal
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $100,000.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the use of the Director of Public Works
              to cover all expenses incidental to snow removal.

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 118          Street Lighting
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $128,820.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Street Lighting in accordance with
              Section 58, Chapter 164 of the Massachusetts General
              Laws.

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 126 127 128          Waste Collection
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $1,861,615.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Waste Collection as follows:
              Item 126          Salaries & Wages         $ 281,609.00
              Item 127          Expense                   1,578,494.00
              Item 128          Local Travel                  1,512.00
                                                         $1,861,615.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 132 133              Drains
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $101,494.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Drains as follows:
              Item 132          Salaries & Wages      $ 96,344.00
              Item 133          Expense                  5,150.00
                                                      $101,494.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 141 142 143       Cemetery
              VOTED:




                           81
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


              That the sum of $316,333.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Cemetery as follows:
              Item 141          Officials Expense         $ 300.00
              Item 142          Salaries & Wages          294,187.00
              Item 143          Expenses                  $ 21,846.00
                                                         $316,333.00
              To meet this appropriation, $259,333 is to be raised by
              taxation, and $57,000 to be transferred from Cemetery
              Perpetual Care.

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 148 149              Tree
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $282,020.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Tree Department as follows:
              Item 148          Salaries & Wages           $230,442.00
              Item 149          Expense                      51,578.00
                                                           $282,020.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 153 154 155 157 158           Health Department
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $146,740.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Health Department as follows:
              Item 153          Officials Expense         $     400.00
              Item 154          Salaries & Wages            127,185.00
              Item 155          Expense                      13,055.00
              Item 157          Local Travel                  2,100.00
              Item 158          HAWC                          4,000.00
                                                          $146,740.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 162                Mental Health
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $60,000.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Mental Health Department as
              follows:
              Item 162        Contractual Services  $ 60,000.00




                           82
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 164 165              Council on Aging
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $184,874.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Council on Aging as follows:
              Item 164          Salaries & Wages           $182,015.00
              Item 165          Expense                       2,859.00
                                                           $184,874.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 175 176 177 178 Veterans Benefits
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $76,408.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Veterans Benefits as follows:
              Item 175          Salaries & Wages            $ 55,065.00
              Item 176          Expense                        1,243.00
              Item 177          Local Travel                   1,100.00
              Item 178          Benefits                      19,000.00
                                                            $ 76,408.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 185 186 187          Library
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $942,218.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Abbot Public Library as follows:
              Item 185          Salaries & Wages           $701,340.00
              Item 186          Expense                     240,778.00
              Item 187          Local Travel                    100.00
                                                           $942,218.00

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 190 191 192          Park Department
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $745,292.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Park and Recreation as follows:
              Item 190          Salaries & Wages           $527,609.00
              Item 191          Expense                     171,590.00
              Item 192          Facility Expense              46,093.00
                                                           $745,292.00




                           83
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 210         Memorial & Veterans Day
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $1,950.00 be and hereby is appropriated
              for Memorial and Veterans Day, said sum of money to
              be expended by the Board of Selectmen.

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 214 215 Maturing Bonds and Interest
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $4,422,955.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Maturing Bonds and Interest as
              follows:
              Item 214         Maturing Debt       $ 2,820,000.00
              Item 215         Interest              1,602,955.00
                                                   $4,422,955.00

              To meet this appropriation, $338,693.00 is to be
              transferred from Bond Premium Reserved for
              Appropriation and $4,084,262.00 to be raised by
              taxation.

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 217                   Contributory Retirement
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $1,902,903.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Contributory Retirement Fund.

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 218                Medicare
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $425,000.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for Medicare, to be expended by the
              Finance Director.

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 219        Workmen’s Compensation
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $250,000.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated to be added to the Workmen’s




                           84
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


              Compensation Trust Fund (and allowed to accumulate
              from year to year) to be expended by the Finance
              Director to pay expenses of Workmen’s Compensation.

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 221                  Group Insurance
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $9,812,084.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for Group Insurance to be expended by the
              Finance Director.

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 222                  Other Insurance
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $475,888.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for Other Insurance, to be expended by the
              Board of Selectmen.

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 223         Salary Reserve
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $110,770.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for Salary Reserve, to be expended by the
              Board of Selectmen.

              To meet this appropriation $32,063.00 to be taken from
              sewer retained earnings, $32,063 to be taken from water
              retained earnings and $46,644 to be raised by taxation.

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 224         Non-Contributory Retirement
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $142,567.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for Non-Contributory Retirement, to be
              expended by the Finance Director/Town Accountant.

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 225        Energy Reserve
              VOTED:




                           85
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


              That the sum of $485,040.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for Energy Reserve, to be expended by the
              Board of Selectmen.

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 227 228 230          Sewer Department
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $3,216,152.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Sewer Department as follows:
              Item 227          Salaries & Wages          $589,798.00
              Item 228          Expense                    524,090.00
              Item 230       South Essex Sewer District 2,102,264.00
                                                       $3,216,152.00

              To meet this appropriation, $3,216,152.00 is to be
              transferred from sewer receipts.

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 231 232 235          Water Department
              VOTED:
              That the sum of $2,845,785.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Water Department as follows:
              Item 231          Salaries & Wages        $ 579,840.00
              Item 232          Expense                    497,247.00
              Item 235          Metropolitan Water       1,768,698.00
                                                        $2,845,785.00

              To meet this appropriation, $2,845,785.00 is to be
              transferred from water receipts.

ARTICLE 49    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 236         Municipal Light Department
              VOTED:
              That the income from sales of electricity to private
              consumers, from electricity supplied to municipal
              buildings and electricity supplied for municipal power
              during the current fiscal year be appropriated for the
              Municipal Light Plant, the whole to be expended by the
              manager of the Municipal Lighting Plant, under the
              direction and control of the Municipal Light Board for




                           86
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                      the expense of the plant for said fiscal year as defined in
                      Section 57 of Chapter 164 of the General Laws; and said
                      Municipal Light Board is hereby further authorized to
                      pay from income of the plant for the fiscal year such
                      amounts as may be expended for extensions,
                      reconstruction enlargements, or additions and sell or
                      trade apparatus that has worn out its usefulness and is
                      unfit for requirements during the fiscal year.

ARTICLE 49            Expenses of Several Departments
                      Items 238 239 240 241              Harbor Department
                      VOTED:
                      That the sum of $710,901.00 be and hereby is
                      appropriated for the Harbor Department as follows:
                      Item 238          Salaries & Wages          $300,834.00
                      Item 239          Expense                    297,857.00
                      Item 240          Bonds and Interest           47,250.00
                      Item 241          Outlays                      64,960.00
                                                                  $710,901.00

                      To meet this appropriation, $710,901 is to be transferred
                      from harbor receipts.

ARTICLE 50            Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
                      VOTED
                      That this article be indefinitely postponed.

   At 10:35 PM the Moderator dissolved the 2009 Annual Town Meeting.




                                    87
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                            Marblehead Massachusetts
                             Annual Town Election
                             Monday May 11th, 2009

The Number of Votes Cast were as follows:

Precinct 1         381                  17.5% of 2,171 Registered Voters
Precinct 2         280                  14.4% of 1,935 Registered Voters
Precinct 3         292                  15.6% of 1,868 Registered Voters
Precinct 4         370                  17.1% of 2,161 Registered Voters
Precinct 5         280                  13.4% of 2,087 Registered Voters
Precinct 6         338                  15.7% of 2,147 Registered Voters
Precinct 7         290                  13.6% of 2,121 Registered Voters
Total              2231                 15.39% of 14,490 Registered Voters

             Canvas Completed at 8:35 pm

                            Selectmen 1 Year Term
Vote for Five
Precinct                  1       2        3       4       5         6      7      Total
Blanks                    606     468      455     601     534       535    533    3732
Jackie Belf-Becker        253     171      195     242     186       226    170    1443
Harry Christensen         251     186      198     241     158       230    177    1441
Judith R. Jacobi          270     184      212     262     184       242    191    1545
James E. Nye              259     196      204     266     177       237    195    1534
William L. Woodfin,       266     195      196     237     159       219    183    1455
II
Write-Ins                 0       0        0       1       2         1      1      5
Total                     1905    1400     1460    1850    1400      1690   1450   11155

                                 Assessors 3 Year Term
Vote for One
    Precinct         1      2       3       4      5      6     7     Total
Blanks              111     82     83      110    99     108   86      679
Douglas E. Percy    270    198     209     260    180    230   204    1551
Write-ins            0      0       0       0      1      0     0       1
     Total          381    280     292     370    280    338   290    2231




                                            88
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                     Cemetery Commission 3 Year Term
Vote for One
   Precinct         1     2     3     4      5     6     7    Total
Blanks             102    88    77   118     99   115   88     687
Dexter C. Gillis   278   192   215   252    180   223   202   1542
Write-ins           1     0     0     0      1     0     0      2
    Total          381   280   292   370    280   338   290   2231

                         Board of Health 3 Year Term
Vote for One
       Precinct           1     2     3      4     5     6     7      Total
Blanks                    52    38    35    36    37    43    35       276
Michelle B. Gottlieb     175   123   146    173   195   195   113     1120
Matthew E. Herring       124   94    79     141   38    66    117      659
Matthew Adam Karlyn       29    25    32     20   10    32    25       173
Write-ins                 1     0     0      0     0     2     0        3
         Total           381   280   292    370   280   338   290     2231

                  Abbot Public Library Trustee 3 Year Term
Vote for Two
         Precinct          1      2     3    4     5     6           7    Total
Blanks                    180 137 133 185 164 187                   145   1131
Peggy Geist Blass         142 106 109 117 118 118                   116    826
Susan Indresano           161 97 106 127 75 117                     99     782
Barbara Collins Rosenberg 77     79    60 100 98        92           65    571
Phyllis B. Smith          201 141 176 211 104 162                   155   1150
Write-ins                  1      0     0    0     1     0           0      2
           Total          762 560 584 740 560 676                   580   4462


            Abbot Public Library Trustee 1 Year Unexpired Term
Vote for One
     Precinct       1     2     3    4      5    6     7   Total
Blanks             135 103 95 129 114 123 113 812
Maura K. Murnane 245 177 197 241 165 215 177 1417
Write-Ins           1     0     0    0      1    0     0     2
      Total        381 280 292 370 280 338 290 2231




                                       89
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                  Municipal Light Commissioner 3 Year Term
Vote for Two
     Precinct        1     2     3   4      5     6    7   Total
Blanks              236 187 182 251 236 218 190 1500
Wilbur E. Bassett   261 185 194 238 156 223 195 1452
Philip W. Sweeney 265 188 208 251 166 235 195 1508
Write-Ins            0     0     0   0      2     0    0    2
       Total        762 560 584 740 560 676 580 4462


                               Moderator 1 Year Term
Vote for One
   Precinct        1      2      3      4      5      6      7     Total
Blanks             98     69     73     98    101     95     82     616
Gary A. Spiess    283    211    218    272    178    242    208    1612
Write-Ins          0      0      1      0      1      1      0       3
    Total         381    280    292    370    280    338    290    2231

                           Planning Board 3 Year Term
Vote for Two
   Precinct         1      2      3      4      5      6      7     Total
Blanks             265    195    205    244    243    246    203    1601
James E. Bishop    253    191    191    255    165    212    189    1456
Karl A. Johnson    243    174    188    241    151    217    187    1401
Write-Ins           1      0      0      0      1      1      1      4
     Total         762    560    584    740    560    676    580    4462


                         Housing Authority – 5 Year Term
Vote for One
   Precinct        1      2      3      4      5      6      7     Total
Blanks             92     71     81    133    112     99    87      675
Pamela J. Foye    197    154    129    144    89     165    153    1031
Kris J. Larson     91     55     82     93    79     74     50      524
Write-ins          1      0      0      0      0      0      0       1
     Total        381    280    292    370    280    338    290    2231




                                         90
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                Recreation and Park Commission 1 Year Term
Vote for Five
      Precinct          1      2     3     4      5     6             7     Total
Blanks                 614    444   456  578     553   480           450    3575
Linda A. Rice          211    174   167  211     136   193           172    1264
Collins
Sam K. Ganglani        197    139   143  173     156   188           152    1148
Derek Y. Norcross      226    166   183  224     133   225           167    1324
Charles Edward         206    141   142  204     115   186           158    1152
Osborne, Jr.
Skip D. Likins         160    124   119  153     135   154           137    982
Rose Ann Wheeler       111     90   103   91      66    97           73     631
McCarthy
Charles E. Nyren       180    122   147  216     106   166           140     1077
Write-Ins               0      0     0     0      0     1             1       2
Total                 1905 1400 1460 1850 1400 1690                  1450   11155


                          School Committee 3 Year Term
Vote for One
 Precinct     1      2       3     4     5     6     7    Total
Blanks       118    102     89    104   104   111   99     727
Eurim Chun 263      178     203   266   174   227   191   1502
Write-Ins     0      0       0     0     2     0     0      2
Total        381    280     292   370   280   338   290   2231


                   Water & Sewer Commission 3 Year Term
Vote for One
    Precinct         1       2     3     4     5     6     7      Total
Blanks               98      77    79   110   104   107   77       652
Emerson F. Brown    283     203   213   260   175   230   213     1577
Write-Ins            0       0     0     0     1     1     0        2
Total               381     280   292   370   280   338   290     2231




                                        91
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                           TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD
                              TOWN WARRANT
                             SPECIAL ELECTION

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
Essex County, SS.

To any Constable in the Town of Marblehead in said County

         GREETING:

You are hereby required and directed in the name of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts to notify and warn the Inhabitants of the Town of Marblehead
aforesaid who are qualified to vote in elections and in Town affairs to meet at the
several designated polling places in their respective precincts in said Marblehead to
wit:

Precinct 1        Polling Place                Old Town House
Precinct 2        Polling Place                Star of the Sea Community Center
Precinct 3        Polling Place                Star of the Sea Community Center
Precinct 4        Polling Place                Star of the Sea Community Center
Precinct 5        Polling Place                Marblehead Community Center
Precinct 6        Polling Place                Marblehead Community Center
Precinct 7        Polling Place                Marblehead Community Center

on Monday, 22nd day of June next A.D. 2009 (it being the fourth Monday in June)
at 7 o’clock in the forenoon then and there to bring into the precinct officers of their
respective precincts their votes on one ballot for the following questions to wit:


                                     Question 1:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to assess an additional $127,800.00 in
real estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of Article 41 of the 2009
Annual Town Meeting for the purpose of continued water quality monitoring, soil
gas monitoring, risk assessment, engineering and other services related to the old
landfill for fiscal year beginning July 1, 2009?


         YES_________                                   NO_________




                                          92
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                                     Question 2:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to assess an additional $505,000.00 in
real estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of Article 42 of the 2009
Annual Town Meeting for the purpose of disposal area remediation and assessment
activities, including engineering, testing, legal and related costs and fees, as it
relates to Stony Brook Road and private property(s) on Stony Brook Road, some of
which abut land owned by the Town of Marblehead for fiscal year beginning July 1,
2009?


         YES_________                          NO_________


          For these purposes the polls will be open at each and all of said precincts at
7 o’clock in the forenoon and will be closed at 8 o’clock in the afternoon at each
and all of said precincts and you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting
attested copies thereof at Abbot Hall and ten (10) other conspicuous places in Town
as required by the By-laws not later than (30) days after being closed.

         Hereof fail not and make due return of this Warrant or certified copy
thereof with our doings thereon, to each of the several precinct wardens at the time
and place of meetings aforesaid and to the Town Clerk as soon as maybe before the
said meetings.

Given under our hands at Marblehead aforesaid this 13th day of May, 2009
                 Jackie Belf-Becker, Chairman
                 Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                 Judith R. Jacobi
                 James E. Nye
                 William L. Woodfin, II
                 Selectmen of Marblehead

A True Copy Attest: Cabot W. Dodge, Constable




                                          93
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                       Town of Marblehead, Massachusetts
                             Special Town Election
                            Monday, June 22, 2009

The Number of Votes Cast were as follows:

Precinct 1       151               7.07% of 2,135 Registered Voters
Precinct 2       100               5.16% of 1,936 Registered Voters
Precinct 3       80                4.30% of 1,860 Registered Voters
Precinct 4       108               4.99% of 2,162 Registered Voters
Precinct 5       82                3.93% of 2,086 Registered Voters
Precinct 6       144               6.70% of 2,148 Registered Voters
Precinct 7       119               5.61% of 2,121 Registered Voters
Total            784               5.41% of 14,493 Registered Voters

Canvas Completed at 8:45pm


                                    Question 1:

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to assess an additional $127,800.00 in
real estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of Article 41 of the 2009
Annual Town Meeting for the purpose of continued water quality monitoring, soil
gas monitoring, risk assessment, engineering and other services related to the old
landfill for fiscal year beginning July 1, 2009?


                Precinct    1     2      3    4     5     6     7     Total
       Blanks               0     0      0    1     0     0     0     1
       Yes                  94    63     58   81    68    107   83    554
       No                   57    37     22   26    14    37    36    229
       Total                151   100    80   108   82    144   119   784




                                        94
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                                    Question 2

Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to assess an additional $505,000.00 in
real estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of Article 42 of the 2009
Annual Town Meeting for the purpose of disposal area remediation and assessment
activities, including engineering, testing, legal and related costs and fees, as it
relates to Stony Brook Road and private property(s) on Stony Brook Road, some of
which abut land owned by the Town of Marblehead for fiscal year beginning July 1,
2009?


            Precinct   1     2      3    4       5    6     7     Total
            Blanks     0     0      0    0       0    0     0     0
            Yes        81    46     52   66      53   86    68    452
            No         70    54     28   42      29   58    51    332
            Total      151   100    80   108     82   144   119   784




                                         95
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                 COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
                      WILLIAM FRANCIS GALVIN
                 SECRETARY OF THE COMMONWEALTH
                      SPECIAL STATE PRIMARY
                       SENATOR IN CONGRESS
                             TUESDAY
                         DECEMBER 8, 2009

         Essex SS.

To either of the Constables of the Town of Marblehead

         GREETING:
In the name of the Commonwealth, you are hereby required to notify and warn the
inhabitants of said Town who are qualified to vote in the Special State Primaries to
vote at

Precinct 1        Old Town House                                 1 Market Square
Precinct 2        Star of the Sea Community Center               80 Atlantic Ave.
Precinct 3        Star of The Sea Community Center               80 Atlantic Ave.
Precinct 4        Star Of The Sea Community Center               80 Atlantic Ave.
Precinct 5        Marblehead Community Center                    10 Humphrey St.
Precinct 6        Marblehead Community Center                    10 Humphrey St.
Precinct 7        Marblehead Community Center                    10 Humphrey St.

on TUESDAY, THE EIGHTH OF DECEMBER, 2009, from 7:00 A.M. to 8:00
P.M. for the following purpose:

    To cast their votes in the Special State Primaries for the candidates of political
    parties for the following office:
    SENATOR IN CONGRESS. . . . . FOR THE COMMONWEALTH




                                         96
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Hereof fail not and make return of this warrant with your doings thereon at the time
and place of said voting.

         Given under our hands this 4th day of November, 2009.

JACKIE BELF-BECKER
HARRY C. CHRISTENSEN, JR.
JUDITH R. JACOBI
JAMES E. NYE

Selectmen of Marblehead

A True Copy
Attest: Cabot W. Dodge, Constable




                                        97
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                         Commonwealth of Massachusetts
                             Special State Primary
                              Senator in Congress
                           Tuesday, December 8, 2009

The Number of Votes Cast were as follows:
Precinct 1     656               30% of 2,183 Registered Voters
Precinct 2     470               24% of 1,927 Registered Voters
Precinct 3     513               28% of 1,844 Registered Voters
Precinct 4     637               30% of 2,157 Registered Voters
Precinct 5     618               29% of 2,106 Registered Voters
Precinct 6     628               29% of 2,138 Registered Voters
Precinct 7     562               26% of 2,124 Registered Voters
Total          4,084             28% of 14,479 Registered Voters

Canvas Completed at 8:45 pm

                             REPUBLICAN PARTY
Senator in Congress
Precinct           1      2     3     4         5    6     7     Total
Blanks             0      0     0     0         0    0     0     0
Scott P. Brown     134    88    78    107       87   128   103   725
Jack E. Robinson 21       11    13    14        10   14    15    98
Write-Ins          1      2     1     3         1    1     0     9
TOTALS             156    101   92    124       98   143   118   832


                            DEMOCRATIC PARTY
Senator in Congress
Precinct              1      2       3      4        5     6     7     Total
Blanks                0      0       0      0        0     0     0     0
Michael E. Capuano    98     79      101    99       150   125   95    747
Martha Coakley        254    196     203    259      253   232   241   1,638
Alan A. Khazei        99     68      87     100      65    81    70    570
Stephen G. Pagliuca   46     25      30     55       51    47    38    292
Write-Ins             1      1       0      0        1     0     0     3
TOTALS                498    369     421    513      520   485   444   3,250




                                           98
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


      TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD ELECTED OFFICIALS 2009 - 2010

SELECTMAN                                              Term Expires
--Abbot Hall, Marblehead, MA 01945
Jackie Belf-Becker- Chair                                     2010
Harry Christensen                                             2010
Judith R. Jacobi                                              2010
James E. Nye                                                  2010
Wiliam L. Woodfin, II                                         2010

TOWN CLERK
--Abbot Hall, Marblehead, MA 01945
Robin A. Michaud                                              2010

ASSESSORS
--Mary A. Alley Building, Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945
John P. Kelley – Chair                                        2011
Anne N. McCarthy - Secretary                                  2010
Douglas E. Percy                                              2012

CEMETERY COMMISSION
--Waterside Cemetery, Marblehead, MA 01945
Dexter C. Gillis -Chair                                       2012
Rose Ann Wheeler McCarthy - Clerk                             2011
Richard F. Coletti                                            2010

BOARD OF HEALTH
--Mary A. Alley Building, Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945
Todd Belf-Becker                                              2011
Helaine Hazlett - Secretary                                   2010
Michelle B. Gottlieb                                          2012

HOUSING AUTHORITY
--26 Rowland Street, Marblehead, MA 01945
Robert T. Bryne                                               2010
Jean R. Eldridge                                              2011
Pamela J. Foye                                                2014
Peter Russell – Appointed by State                            2011
Richard M. Whitehill                                          2013




                                     99
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


TRUSTEES OF ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY
--235 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA 01945              Term Expires
Peggy G. Blass                                                 2012
Jean Howe                                                      2011
Robin A. Michaud                                               2011
Maura K. Murnane                                               2010
Phyllis B. Smith                                               2012
Philip Sweeney - Chair                                         2010

MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSIONER
--80 Commercial Street, Marblehead, MA 01945
Wilbur E. Bassett                                               2012
Calvin T. Crawford                                              2010
Walter E. Homan                                                 2010
Charles O. Phillips                                             2011
Philip W. Sweeney, Chair                                        2012

MODERATOR
--Mary A. Alley Building, Marblehead MA
Gary A. Spiess                                                  2010

PLANNING BOARD
--c/o Engineering Office, Mary A. Alley Building, Marblehead, MA 01945
James Bishop                                                     2012
Philip Helmes                                                    2011
Kurt A. James                                                    2011
Karl A. Johnson                                                  2012
Edward Nilsson                                                   2010

RECREATION & PARK COMMISSION
--Marblehead Community Center, 10 Humphrey Street, Marblehead, MA
Linda A. Rice Collins                                       2010
Sam K. Ganglani                                             2010
Derek Y. Norcross                                           2010
Charles E. Nyren                                            2010
Charles Edward Osborne, Jr.                                 2010

SCHOOL COMMITTEE
--Mary A. Alley Building, Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945
Patricia M. Blackmer                                            2011




                                   100
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Eurim Chun                                             2012
Amy T. Drinker                                         2010
Jonathan S. Lederman                                   2010
Richard Scott Nohelty                                  2011

WATER & SEWER COMMISSION
--Tower Way, Marblehead MA 01945                 Term Expires
Wilbur E. Bassett                                      2010
Emerson F. Brown - Vice Chair                          2012
John P. Doane                                          2011
Bradford Nick Freeman, Jr.                             2011
F. Carlton Siegel - Chair                              2010




                                 101
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                  TOWN OFFICIALS APPOINTED
                 BY THE BOARD OF SELECTMEN

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR
Anthony M. Sasso

AMERICAN DISABILITIES ACT COORDINATOR
Kyle A. Wiley                                      2010

ANIMAL INSPECTOR at $2,400 per year
Isabel M. Lorenco                                  2010

BUILDING COMMISSIONER AND INSPECTORS
Commissioner - Robert S. Ives, Jr.                 2010
Local Inspector - Chris Butler                     2010
Plumbing Inspector - Domingos Furtado              2010
Assistant Plumbing Inspector – Peter McCarriston   2010
Wiring Inspector – Ronald J. Marks                 2010
Assistant Wiring Inspector – Eric F.S. Chisholm    2010

CANINE CONTROL CLERK
Robin Michaud – Town Clerk                         2010

ASSISTANT DOG OFFICERS FOR THE PARKS
Robert Gillis                                      2010
Peter James                                        2010
C. Michael Lane                                    2010
Brad Delisle                                       2010
Reggie Berry                                       2010
Mike Attridge                                      2010
Greg Snow                                          2010
Pat Sylvester                                      2010
Brendan Egan                                       2010

TOWN COUNSEL at $2,000 per year
Jeffrey N. Shribman                                2010
         Assistant Town Counsel:
         Brody, Hardoon, Perkins & Kesten          2010
         Leonard Kesten                            2010
         Marc J. Miller                            2010




                                     102
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


        Earl Weissman                            2010
        Patrick J. Costello                      2010
        Lisa L. Mead                             2010
        Francis Mayo                             2010

COUNCIL ON AGING DIRECTOR
Patricia C. Roberts                              2010

EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR
Charles P. Cerrutti                              2010

ENGINEERING & CONSERVATION ADMINISTRATOR         2010
William C. Lanphear

FLAG OFFICER
David C. Rodgers                                 2010

FOREST WARDEN – Term: 1 Year
Chief Jason R. Gilliland, Fire Department        2010

HARBOR MASTER AND ASSISTANTS
Charles J. Dalferro, Harbor Master               2010
         Assistant Harbor Masters
         Webb Russell                            2010
         Daniel Roads, Jr.                       2010
         Assistant Harbormasters (Seasonal):
         Thomas Murray                           2010
         Ray Gauthier                            2010
         Jeffrey Flynn                           2010
         John Vigneron                           2010
         John Payne                              2010
         Alternates:
         Carlo Fratini                           2010
         Frank MacIver                           2010

KEEPER OF THE LOCK UP                            2010
Chief Robert O. Picariello

LICENSING AUTHORITY, DULY DESIGNATED AGENTS
Police Chief Robert O. Picariello                2010




                                       103
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Provisional Captain: Mark Mills                   2010
Lieutenants:
           Matthew Freeman                        2010
           Jonathan Lunt                          2010
           David J. Millett                       2010
           Nicholas Economou      (Provisional)   2010
Sergeants:
           Sean Sweeney                           2010
           Donald Decker                          2010
           Marion Keating                         2010
           Jason Conrad                           2010

MEASURER OF LEATHER – Term: 1 Year
John Smidt                                        2010

TOWN DESIGNEE MASS. WATER RESOURCE AUTHORITY –
Term: 1Year
F. Carlton Siegel                                2010
Alternate: Dana Snow, Water and Sewer Department 2010

PARKING CLERK /HEARING CLERK – Term: 1 Year
Anthony M. Sasso, Town Administrator              2010

CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER
Rebecca L. Curran                                 2010

PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
Dana Snow                                         2010

RETIREMENT BOARD – Term: 1 Year
Anthony M. Sasso, Town Administrator              2010

 “RIGHT TO KNOW” COORDINATOR – Term: 1 Year
Jason R. Gilliland – Fire Department              2010

SEALER OF WEIGHTS & MEASURES
David C. Rodgers                                  2010

SPECIAL AUXILIARY POLICE
Patrolmen:




                                      104
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


        James Donovan                                2010

SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS
Robert S. Ives, Jr.                                  2010

TAX COLLECTOR/TREASURER
Patricia Kelly Murray                                2010

VETERANS’ AGENT & DIRECTOR OF VETERANS’ SERVICES –
Term: 1 Year
David C. Rodgers                               2010

VETERANS’ GRAVES OFFICER Term: 1 Year
David C. Rodgers                                     2010

WORKERS’ COMPENSATION AGENT Term: 1 Year
Massachusetts Interlocal Insurance Association       2010

TOWN ACCOUNTANT– Term 3 Years
John J. McGinn                                       2010

AFFORDABLE HOUSING TRUST FUND – Term 1 year
Board of Selectmen                                   2010
Jon Jennings, Finance Committee Representative       2010
Vacant, Fair Housing Committee Representative        2010
Vacant, At Large                                     2010
Vacant, At Large                                     2010

ARMED FORCES LIAISON– Term: 1 Year
John M. McCloskey                                    2010

BOARD OF ABBOT LIBRARY SECOND CENTURY FUND –Term: 1 Year
Thomas A. McNulty                              2010
Judith Eissner                                 2010

CABLE TV OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE – Term: 3 Years (staggered)
Peter Lazarus                                        2010
Nancy Marrs                                          2012
Paul Rabin                                           2012
Alan G. Raymond                                      2011




                              105
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Ron Olson                                                       2010
Wayne Avridson                                                  2010
Jerry O’Neill                                                   2011
Libby Moore                                                     2011

CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE – Term: 3 Years
Michael Auerbach                                                2010
Thomas Gawrys                                                   2012
Edward Lang                                                     2012
Victor Wild                                                     2012
Joe Zelloe                                                      2010
John J. McGinn – Ex Officio                                     2011

CARETAKER AND ASSISTANT, FORT BEACH – Term: 1 Year
William H. Powers                                  2010
Jeffrey P. Flynn - Assistant                       2010

CHAPLAIN – MARBLEHEAD POLICE DEPARTMENT – Term: 1 Year
Rabbi Jonas Goldberg                            2010


SURGEON – MARBLEHEAD POLICE DEPARTMENT – Term: 1 Year
Dr. Jack Richman                                2010

CONSERVATION COMMISSION – Term: 3 Years (staggered)
Frederick Sullivan                                              2010
Ken Fisher                                                      2010
Don Tritschler                                                  2010
Craig Smith                                                     2012
Deb Payson                                                      2012
Walter S. Haug                                                  2012
Brian LeClair                                                   2011

CONSTABLES for Postings in Town – Term: 1 Year
Cabot Dodge                                                     2010

CONSTABLES
    • for the Purpose of Serving Civil Process – Term: 1 Year
Cabot Dodge                                                     2010
Donald B. Hurwitz                                               2010




                                   106
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


David Scott Jackson                                2010
Paul Minsky                                        2010
Robert J. Edwards                                  2010
George Hartling                                    2010

CONSTABLES
   • Shellfish
Wayne O. Attridge – Chief Constable - 3 yr. term   2010

Term: 1 Year
Raymond H. Bates, Jr.                              2010
David Donahue                                      2010
R. Thomas Hamond                                   2010
Jeffrey Flynn                                      2010
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.                          2010
Jack Attridge                                      2010
Deborah Fadden                                     2010
Susan Hogan                                        2010
Douglas Aikman                                     2010
Douglas Percy                                      2010

COUNCIL ON AGING – Term: 3 Years
Edward Bell                                        2010
Freda Hoyt McGuire                                 2012
Joseph Dever                                       2011
Elizabeth Michaud                                  2011
Jeanne Louizos                                     2011
Catherine Brown                                    2012
John Crowley                                       2012
Rensselaer Havens                                  2010
Maureen Horan                                      2010

EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES COUNCIL – Term: 1 Year
Jason R. Gilliland– Marblehead Fire Department    2010

FAIR HOUSING COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Paul Crosby, Marblehead Counseling Center          2010
Sarah Drewry                                       2010
Kurt James                                         2010
Joan McIntyre                                      2010




                                      107
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Dirk Isbrandtsen                                          2010
Ann Cohen                                                 2010
Don Davies                                                2010
Janet Robinson                                            2010
Bonnie Howard                                             2010
Gordon King                                               2010
Mimi Hollister                                            2010
Kurt James – Planning Board Representative                2010

FENCE VIEWERS – Term: 1 Year
Frederick Goddard                                         2010

FINANCE COMMITTEE – Term: 3 Years
Vacant                                                    2009
Moses Grader                                              2011
David E. Harris, Jr.                                      2012
Steven J. Haskell                                         2011
Kathleen E. Leonardson                                    2011
Patricia Moore                                            2010
Matthew Herring                                           2010
Lisa Louden                                               2010
Eric Cole                                                 2012
Robert Ross – Clerk

FIREWORKS COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Alexander Falk                                            2010

FORT SEWALL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Judy Anderson, Marblehead Museum and Historical Society   2010
Joyce Booth, Historical Commission                        2010
Ed Lang                                                   2010
R. Thomas Hamond                                          2010
Brenda Arnold (OMIA Rep.)                                 2010
Vacant (OHDC Rep.)                                        2010
Lloyd H. Caswell, Disabilities Commission                 2010
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner                           2010
Derek Norcross, Recreation and Parks Department           2010
Larry Sands, Glover’s Regiment                            2010
Philip F. Norcross, Citizen at Large                      2010




                                     108
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


HARBORS & WATERS BOARD – Term: 1 Year
John Doub                                           2010
Gary P. Gregory                                     2010
Jay Michaud                                         2010
William G. Pattison                                 2010
Paul N. Williams                                    2010
Alternates:
         Kenneth Breen                              2010
         Paul Stevens                               2010
         Spencer Moore                              2010

HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
TEAM - Term: 1 year
Charles P. Cerrutti, Emergency Management Director  2010
Douglas W. Saal, Town Engineer                      2010
Dana E. Snow, Superintendent, Water and Sewer Dept. 2010
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner                     2010
William E. Conly, Historical Commission             2010

HISTORIAN – Term: 1 Year
Elizabeth Hunt                                      2010

HISTORICAL COMMISSION – Term: 3 Years (staggered)
William E. Conly                                    2010
Joyce L. Booth                                      2012
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.                           2012
Paul C. Johnson                                     2011
Nancy Graves                                        2011
Don Gardner                                         2011
Wayne T. Butler                                     2010
Dr. Raymond Cole Jr., Emeritus Member

HOBBS MEMORIAL, SELECTMEN’S AGENT – Term: 1 Year
Paul Crosby                                         2010

LOGAN AIRPORT, PREFERENTIAL RUNWAY COMMITTEE –
Vacant                                       2010

MARBLEHEAD CULTURAL COUNCIL – Term: 3 Years
Howard Rosenkrantz                                  2011




                               109
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Ava Lawrence                                       2011
Phyllis McCarthy                                   2010
Walter Horan                                       2010
Joanne Johnston                                    2010
Marshall Harris                                    2010
Georgia Murray                                     2012
Joan Hollister                                     2012
Carol Booth                                        2011
Betsy Morris                                       2011
Nora Falk                                          2011
Gloria Coolidge                                    2011

MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY ACCESS AND MEDIA, INC. Term: 3 years
Robert F. Peck, Jr.                            2010
Patricia O’Hare Williams                       2011
Ed Bell                                        2012
Elizabeth Moore, School Representative         2012
Ron Olson, CTOC Representative                 2011

MARBLEHEAD DISABILITIES COMMISSION – Term: 3 Years
Carol Arnould                                      2012
Lloyd Caswell                                      2011
Katie Farrell                                      2011
Mary Levine                                        2012
Maureen McKinnon-Tucker                            2011
Andrea Mountain                                    2010
Patricia Sullivan                                  2010
(Elected Official rotating)                        2010
Fraffie Welch                                      2012

MARBLEHEAD FOREVER COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Fraffie Welch                                      2010
Vacant                                             2010
Vacant                                             2010
Vacant                                             2010
Vacant                                             2010

MASSACHUSETTS ETHICS COMMISSION
MUNICIPAL LIAISON
Jeffrey N. Shribman                                2010




                            110
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




MBTA ADVISORY BOARD – Term: 1 Year
John Heffernan                                      2009

METROPOLITAN AREA PLANNING COUNCIL – Term: 3 Years
James E. Bishop                                  2011
Rebecca L. Curran, Alternate                     2011

OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISSION– Term: 1 Year
Cheryl Boots                                       2010
F. Reed Cutting, Jr.                               2010
Thomas Saltsman                                    2010
Charles Hibbard                                    2010
Sally Sands                                        2010
Alternates:
Bette Hunt                                         2010
Karyn Lang                                         2010

OLD BURIAL HILL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Bette Hunt                                         2010
Susan Hogan                                        2010
E. Russell Peach, Jr.                              2010
Pam Peterson                                       2010
Richard Colletti, Cemetery Representative          2010
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner (Ex-Officio)       2010

OPEN SPACE COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Bradford N. Freeman                                 2010
Richard Harrison, Conservancy Representative        2010
Bill Woodfin, Selectmen’s representative            2010
Walt Haug, Conservation Commission Representative   2010
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner                     2010

REGISTRARS OF VOTERS– Term: 3 Years
Robin Michaud (Town Clerk)                          2010
J. Michael Canniffe                                 2010
Joyce H. Lofmark                                    2012
Donald A. Doliber                                   2011




                                    111
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


SCHOLARSHIP COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Audrey Brenner                                        2010
Alex Kulevich                                         2010
Sandi Shuman                                          2010
Edward Harvey                                         2010
Nancy Graves                                          2010
Helaine Hazlett                                       2010
John Goodman                                          2010
Karen Meyer                                           2010
Nancy Marrs                                           2010
Tom Despres                                           2010
Jeannie Patch                                         2010

SIGN CULLER – Term: 1 Year
Vacant                                                2010

SISTER CITY LIAISON – Grasse, France – Term: 1 Year
Myriam Zuber                                          2010

SMART GROWTH COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
Dirk Isbrandsten                                      2010
Kurt James                                            2010
Gordon King                                           2010
Michael McCloskey                                     2010
David Stern                                           2010
Don Morgan                                            2010
William L. Woodfin, II                                2010
Judith R. Jacobi                                      2010
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner                       2010

TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION – Term: 1 Year
Helaine Hazlett                                       2010
Ann Marie Hunter                                      2010
Harvey Michaels                                       2010
Jay Morrison                                          2010
Barbara Schneider                                     2010
Deacon John E. Whipple                                2010
Chief Robert Picariello                               2010
Monica Tecca                                          2010
Melissa Volk Aizanman                                 2010




                                 112
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Judy Luise                                                 2010
Mary Levine                                                2010

TAXATION AID COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Patricia C. Roberts                                        2010
Pamela Foye                                                2010
Vacant                                                     2010
Patricia Kelly Murray, Treasurer                           2010
John Kelley, Chairman Board of Assessors

TOWN PHYSICIAN – Term: 1 Year
Quadrant Health Strategies                                 2010

TRAFFIC & SAFETY ADVISORY COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
John P. Doane                                               2010
Vacant                                                      2010
F. Carlton Siegel                                           2010
Chief Jason R. Gilliland – Fire Department – Ex Officio     2010
Chief Robert O. Picariello – Police Department – Ex Officio 2010

TREE WARDEN - Term: 3 years
Doug Gordon                                                2012

ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS – Term: 5 Years
Karen Tenenbaum                                            2010
William R. Moriarty                                        2014
David Tubridy                                              2011
Alan Lipkind                                               2013
Barbara Shefftz                                            2012
Alternates – Term: 1 year
Paige Hintlian                                             2010
Christopher T. Casey                                       2010
Andrea Papanek                                             2010
Elizabeth B. Jacobson                                      2010




                                 113
                MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                       Vital Records
                   Births Recorded - 154

January    19                    July        16
February   8                     August      3
March      16                    September   12
April      11                    October     16
May        14                    November    16
June       9                     December    14

                  Marriages Recorded - 77

January    4                     July        7
February   6                     August      13
March      4                     September   13
April      3                     October     10
May        1                     November    2
June       7                     December    7

                   Deaths Recorded - 172

January    11                    July        11
February   12                    August      8
March      12                    September   19
April      19                    October     10
May        20                    November    22
June       13                    December    15




                           114
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                       Causes of Death 2009


Acute Myocardial Infarction                     5
Acute Respiratory Arrest                        40
Acute Renal Failure                             2
Alzheimer’s Dementia                            6
Anoxic Encepmalopthy                            1
Atherosclerotic Heart Disease                   6
Blunt Trauma with Neck and Extremity Injuries   2
Blunt Trauma with Skull Fractures               1

Carcinomas:
Bladder Cancer                                  2
Blast Crisis Leukemia                           1
Brain Cancer                                    2
Breast Cancer                                   2
Cancer of Esophagus                             1
Colon Cancer                                    4
Glioblastoma                                    2
Hepatocellular Carcinoma                        1
Lung Cancer                                     8
Melonoma                                        1
Metastatic Cervical Cancer                      1
Metastatic Ovarian Cancer                       1
Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma                 1
Metastatic Squamous Cell                        1
Multiple Myeloma                                1
Myelodysplasia - Acute Myelogeneous Leukemia    2
Ovarian Cancer                                  1
Pancreatic Cancer                               6
Waldenstrom’s Macroglobulinemia                 1


Cardiac Arrest                                  12
Cardiogenic Shock                               1
Cardiomyopathy                                  1
Cerebral Hemmorage                              2
Cerebral Vascular Accident                      8
Clostridium Difficile Associated Diarrhea       1




                                       115
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Congestive Heart Failure                      4
Extreme Prematurity                           1
Failure to Thrive                             9
Hypertensive Cardiovascular Disease           2
Intra Abdominal Infection                     1
Jacob-Creutzfeldt Disease                     1
Multiple Injuries                             1
Mycobacterium Abscessus Pneumonitis           1
Paraneoplastic Syndrome                       1
Parkinsons Disease                            1
Pea/Asystole                                  1
Peritoneal Bleeding                           1
Pneumonia                                     10
Pyelonephritis with Bacteremia                1
Renal Failure                                 1
Sepsis                                        6
Severe Metabolic Acidosis                     1
Shock                                         1
Spinal Cord Hemorrhage                        1
Uremia                                        1
Urinary Tract Infection                       1
Ventricular Fibrillation                      1




                                      116
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                        ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY

Progressing from the upgrades to the Library’s facility noted in last year’s Report,
we undertook a long overdue masonry project to address weaknesses in the exterior
walls adjacent to the Library’s “Secret Garden,” along Maverick Street, and next to
our driveway. Funds generously provided by the Town allowed us to re-do the
brickwork on the wall facing Maverick Street, as well as repair the two adjoining
brick walls. In addition, we were able to accomplish critical waterproofing of these
walls and refurbish the drainage system in this area – extremely important steps in
preserving the building and protecting it from the flooding and leakage that has
caused deterioration for many years. We also benefited from an extensive upgrade
to the appearance of the front of the building, through enhancements to our
landscaping and the addition of a low stone wall, thanks to the combined generosity
of the Friends of the Library and the Driftwood Garden Club.

We are especially grateful for the opportunity to maintain and improve our facility,
which we view as a community space. Through increased and more diverse
offerings of both adult and children’s programming (more than 150 programs in
2009), the Library is becoming as much a venue for informal or planned socializing
and learning, as it is a destination for selecting items to borrow or consult. We
have taken the initiative to reach out to a variety of community organizations to
develop collaborative programming. In May, the Library and the High School
worked together to mount the MHS senior art exhibit in our Virginia A. Carten
Gallery and Meeting Room spaces. This highly successful project will now
continue as an annual event, and other Library - School partnerships are scheduled
for 2010. Collaborations with the Boston Ballet, the Marblehead Historical Society,
local garden clubs, the Spirit of ’76 Bookstore and other groups highlight the
Library’s integral role in the Town’s rich cultural life. The provision of a fire in the
Reading Room fireplace, with light refreshments, on Sunday afternoons, throughout
the winter, by the Friends of the Library, is another example of our interest in
making the building a place to stay a while.

Services continue to be modified with the objective of meeting the changing needs
of patrons. Understanding the challenges of finding the time to read within a busy
schedule, we increased the loan period for new fiction from one to two weeks, and
removed the restriction on renewal of these books, unless another patron has
requested the title. Similarly, we now loan magazines for two weeks. For patrons
who make use of the Library’s wireless service, we have significantly improved our
bandwidth, for increased speed and functionality on laptops, throughout the
building.




                                         117
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


We remain dedicated to providing current and varied collections of both fiction and
non-fiction books, as well as audiobooks in various formats, DVD’s and music
CD’s. We look forward to using the generous grant, awarded by the Shattuck Fund,
this year, to bring together these now somewhat scattered non-print materials to
create a “Media Center.” As in the past, the annual gift from the Second Century
Fund has added to our acquisitions budget, with a focus, this year, on our DVD and
audiobook collections. In recognition of the growing importance of content in
electronic format, we soon will be adding downloadable eBooks to the audiobooks
already accessible for download via our website.

Our selection of databases, available to patrons from their home computers and at
the Library, is always being enhanced. Notable, this year, was the addition of the
online foreign language learning system, Mango Languages. Mango provides self-
paced instruction in several foreign languages for English speakers as well as
English language instruction for Spanish, Polish and Portuguese speakers.

The very generous support of the Killam Fund has allowed us, this year, to purchase
two freestanding partitions which serve to create a smaller, defined area, for
children’s programming, within the Library’s large Meeting Room. We also were
able to purchase two additional PC’s for the Children’s Room; a large hexagonal
table, currently on order, will accommodate the two new and four existing
computers, creating an attractive and functional computer grouping within the
Children’s Room. We also used the Killam Fund to purchase two much-needed
PC’s, as well as new display racks and beanbag chairs, for the Library’s teen area.

An allocation from the Town provided support for a feasibility study of a possible
new staircase and exit, to achieve a better unification of the “Secret Garden” with
the adjoining interior spaces, and, particularly, to allow these spaces to function as a
self-contained area for use by the community, whether or not the Library is open for
other services. An Architect Search Committee was formed and, after interviewing
several candidates, an architectural firm was selected to undertake this study. As of
the end of the year, a design providing access, including a ramp to accommodate
handicapped visitors, baby strollers, etc., to the Garden from the Library’s main and
lower levels had been presented to, and approved by, the Library Board.

Respectfully submitted,
Phil Sweeney, Chairperson
Patricia J. Rogers, Director




                                         118
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                    ABBOT LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Philip W. Sweeney, Jr., Chair                   Term expires 2010
Peggy Geist Blass, Vice-Chair                   Term expires 2012
Maura K. Murnane, Secretary                     Term expires 2010
Jean Y. Howe                                    Term expires 2011
Robin A. Michaud                                Term expires 2011
Phyllis Smith                                   Term expires 2012

                          ABBOT LIBRARY STAFF

Patricia J. Rogers                              Director
Ann E. Connolly                                 Assistant Director
Christine Evans                                 Technical Services Librarian
Marcia Cannon                                   Children’s Librarian
Mary Farrell                                    Youth Librarian
Jonathan Randolph                               Adult Librarian
Mary Starrett                                   Senior Clerk
Elena Minayev                                   Para-Professional
Catherine Jamieson                              Library Coordinator/Circulation
Johanna Umana, Part-Time                        Program/Volunteer Coordinator
Linda Levy                                      Library Technician
Anne Thornton                                   Library Tech. Assistant
Carole Brindamour, Part-Time                    Sr. Library Assistant
Janet Smith, Part-Time                          Library Tech. Assistant
Ellen Goldstrom, Part-Time                      Sr. Library Assistant
Joan Kessel, Temp. Part-Time                    Library Assistant
Caroline Bock, Temp. Part-Time                  Library Assistant
Virginia Symmes, Temp. Part-Time                Library Assistant

                                CUSTODIANS

Richard Leahy                                   Custodian

                                   PAGES
Kira Goldman
Henry Phu
Cassandra Sprague
Marilyn Doran
Alaina Breed




                                    119
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                         BOARD OF ASSESSORS

The Board of Assessors functions according to State mandated legislation. The
principal duty of the Board is to determine the “fair cash value” of all real and
personal property within the Town of Marblehead on an annual basis.

The assessing staff, under the supervision and review of the Board of Assessors
performs all duties. Our primary goal is to ensure fair and equitable assessments,
administer the statutory exemptions available to the elderly, blind, disabled, and
veterans. Additionally, the department is responsible for issuing motor vehicle
excise based upon the Registry of Motor Vehicles values provided to the assessors
office. The assessors also administer boat excise tax based upon the State formula
and after receiving the required information from the boat owner via the return of
form 2BE, which must be filed annually at the assessor’s office.

Under the quarterly tax billing procedure, the filing deadline for abatements is
February 1, (third quarter tax bill due date). The filing deadline for statutory
exemptions according to Massachusetts General Law is three months from the
mailing of the third quarter tax bill. Tax law and guidelines for exemptions are
constantly changing. We urge all taxpayers who may have questions regarding
abatements or exemption to contact the Assessors Office.

Douglas E. Percy was elected to his first 3 year term on the Board of Assessors.

Assessments for the average single family dwelling decreased 1.8% to $685,562,
and the median single family assessment decreased 1.4% to $512,000. The average
tax bill increased 4.5% to $6,560, and the median single family tax bill increased
5% to $4,900. The classification hearing held on November 18, 2009, resulted in a
single tax rate of $9.57 per thousand of value.

The Board of Assessor’s granted a total of $128,173 of statutory exemptions to 212
qualified seniors, veterans, and blind applicants.

The following is the breakdown of value by class and the respective tax levy as well
as the pertinent data for motor vehicle and boat excise tax.




                                        120
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




CLASS                                 VALUATION              TAX LEVY

Residential         95.1218%          $4,993,336,363         $47,786,228.99
Commercial          3.6691%           $192,606,528           $1,843,244.47
Industrial          0.3827%           $20,090,100            $192,262.26
Personal Property   0.8264%           $43,380,290            $415,149.38

TOTAL               100%              $5,249,413,281         $50,236,885.10

                                    EXCISE TAX

MOTOR VEHICLE              #BILLS            TAX ASSESSED

2009 EXCISE                19,966            $2,727,902.99

BOAT EXCISE                2032              $159,199



Respectfully Submitted,

Board of Assessors                              Office Staff
John P. Kelley, Chair                           Virginia T. Palmer, Senior Clerk
Anne N. McCarthy, Secretary                     Leslie T. George, MAA, Sp. Clerk
Douglas E. Percy
Michael A. Tumulty, MAA, Asst. Assessor




                                       121
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                           BOARD OF HEALTH

The Marblehead Board of Health met in formal session on fourteen (14) occasions
including the annual Town Meeting. Meetings were properly and duly posted with
the Town Clerk. BOH Members and staff also attend numerous meetings pertaining
to finance, regionalization, communicable disease, bio-terrorism, tobacco control,
grant application, sanitation code updates, environmental issues, continuing
education, emergency preparedness, as well as other public health related issues of
importance to the Town.

Carl Goodman did not seek re-election in May. Carl served the Town passionately
as a Selectman and as Chairman of the Board of Health for over 20 years. We all
wish Carl the best and thank him for his years of dedicated service to the Town of
Marblehead. Michelle Gottlieb was elected to the Board in May.

                    MARBLEHEAD.ORG WEBSITE
News and notifications concerning public health, trash and recycling are posted in
timely fashion. This very successful media tool allows the posting of links to sites
relating to public health, emergency planning, solid waste and beach water quality.
A subscription service on Marblehead.org allows people to sign up for email alerts
regarding solid waste, recycling, public health emergencies, as well as other
important Town information.

       REPORTED* COMMUNICABLE DISEASES – 2009
Campylobacter                         9
Giardia                               1
Hepatitis C-Chronic                   5
Invasive Group B Streptococcus        3
Streptococcus pneumonia               1
Salmonellosis                         6
Influenza                             12
Lyme Disease                          16
Babesiosis                            1
Ehrlichiosis                          1
Varicella (Chickenpox)                4
Viral Meningitis                      1
Clostridium Perfingens                1
Human Granulocytic Anaplasmosis (HGA) 1
Enterovirus                           1




                                       122
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


As with all communicable disease reports an extensive follow-up investigation is
conducted to determine the source and possible cause of the illness. All food-borne
illness (Campylobacter, Giardia, Hepatitis A, Salmonella) require public health
response.

*The Board of Health reminds everyone that good, frequent hand washing is
the first line of defense in preventing the spread of a lot of illnesses. Always
wash your hands after using the bathroom, before preparing foods, and
between foods to be cooked and foods to be eaten raw. It should be noted that
these are reported cases versus occurrences.

                   BLOOD PRESSURE SCREENING

Blood pressure monitoring is conducted Monday through Friday from 8:00 A.M. to
12:00 noon at the Board of Health office by appointment only. Additionally the
Public Health Nurse is at the Marblehead Council on Aging on most Thursdays of
each month between 11:00 AM-12:00 noon to conduct a blood pressure clinic.

NORTH SHORE-CAPE ANN EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
                 COALITION

The North Shore-Cape Ann Emergency Preparedness Coalition continues to work to
prepare its member communities to respond to public health threats and
emergencies, which include terrorism and outbreaks of infectious diseases as well as
emergencies caused by a force of nature. This coalition, established in 2004, is a
sub-coalition within Region 3 of the Massachusetts Department of Public Health
regional Public Emergency Preparedness Coalitions and meets monthly. The
coalition receives funding from a grant provided by the CDC and is mandated to
attain certain standards in emergency preparedness. The North Shore-Cape Ann
Emergency Preparedness Coalition has established a website with information for
the public and links to other sites that can provide valuable information to our
residents. To date, the Board of Health has provided MDPH with 24/7 contact
information, submitted a Continuity of Operations Plan, participated in numerous
drills, trainings and conferences, has had key personnel trained in NIMS (National
Incident Management System) and ICS (Incident Control System), updated the All-
Hazards Plan, and has submitted a template of our Special Populations Plan. In
2008 the coalition began the process of a multi-year Training and Exercise Plan.
This plan will take us from learning about a specific scenario to a full blown
disaster drill incorporating all hazards plans and testing of the established




                                       123
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


infrastructure. The coalition is continuing the process of increasing our database of
medical and non-medical volunteers through our website and is offering training
opportunities for these volunteers. In the event of an infectious disease epidemic or
pandemic, or a natural disaster, volunteers will be greatly needed to assist in mass
clinics, shelters or wherever else needed. Volunteers can register on-line and/or by
calling the Marblehead Board of Health. We urge residents to become volunteers.
Please log on to: www.nscalert.org or call the BOH at 781 631-0212 to register as a
volunteer and to learn more about our coalition.

                       2009 PUBLIC FLU CLINICS

With the emergence of the novel H1N1 Influenza virus in April and the declaration
by the WHO of a worldwide H1N1 pandemic in June, the2009 “flu season” became
a challenging year for Public Health. The H1N1virus continued to circulate
throughout the US during the summer and increased in prevalence when school
resumed. This new virus also created the need for two different flu vaccine: the
regular seasonal flu vaccine and the H1N1 vaccine. Since the H1N1 was the current
and prominent virus being detected, the production of the seasonal flu vaccine was
slowed to enhance the pharmaceutical company’s capacity for manufacturing the
H1N1 vaccine. This caused a temporary shortage of seasonal vaccine and a lack of
H1N1 vaccine at the same time. During this time of frustration and anxiety by the
public sector the Board of Health continued to emphasize the need for frequent hand
washing, proper cough etiquette and staying home when sick.

On October 1, 2009 a Seasonal Flu clinic was held for those over the age of 65
years only. At that clinic 410 residents were immunized.

The Marblehead Board of Health and the Marblehead School Department, through
Lead Nurse Paula Dobrow, prioritized the initiative to vaccinate school aged
children with seasonal flu vaccine. Our target groups were middle and high school
students. We immunized 292 students at two school-based clinics held in October.

In November the BOH received 100 doses of H1N1 Nasal Mist Vaccine. Again
working with the Marblehead Public Schools we targeted kindergarten students and
immunized 78 students in an after-school clinic.

By mid-December the BOH had a moderate supply of H1N1 vaccine and on
December 12, 2009 held a clinic for the targeted population of children age 4-18
years, pregnant women, household contacts of pregnant women, household
contacts of infants under the age of 6 months, and healthcare workers with direct




                                        124
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


patient contact. At this clinic we immunized 614 residents. Our immunization
efforts continued through the month of December with mini clinics being held for
target populations and we have continued into 2010.

                      INSPECTIONAL SERVICES

All food service and retail food establishments are required, by the MDPH, to be
inspected bi-annually. Additionally, walk-through inspections (a less formal visual
procedure for those establishments the Board has received complaints about, that
are making physical changes, or for any type of problem that may arise during the
year) are conducted at the Board of Health’s discretion.

Mandated beach samples are taken on a weekly basis from May through September
in accordance with 105 CMR Sect. 445.000. Test results proved very inconsistent
due in part to an extremely wet spring. Public and semipublic pools are monitored
for mandatory on-site quality control and proper management as required by MA
105 CMR 435.000 Minimum Standards for Swimming Pools. The Water, Sewer,
and Drain Commission worked diligently with the Board of Health to investigate
and resolve stormwater issues throughout the summer.

         ESTABLISHMENTS REGULARLY INSPECTED

Nursing Homes                                  2
Food Service Establishments                    62
Retail Food Service Establishments             30
Private Clubs                                  10
School Cafeterias                              4
Schools with Satellite Programs                7
Private Schools                                1
Carnivals W/3 Mobile Service Units             4
Ice Cream Trucks/Boat                          2
Mobile Food Service Trucks                     1
Hot Dog Push Carts                             1
Slush Push carts and Yogurt Push Carts         2
Year Round Swimming Pools                      1
Seasonal Swimming Pools                        5
Arts Festival Food Fair                        1
Bakeries                                       2
Caterers                                       2
One Day Permits                                3




                                         125
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


New Business/Change of Ownership            7
Restaurant Inspections                      158
Re-Inspection Compliance                    61
Food Borne Illness Investigation            0
Fire Incidents Requiring Inspection         0
Day Camp Inspections                        12

                      INSPECTIONS REQUIRED
Water, Beach, Drain & Stream Smples     147
Asbestos Inquiry, Complaints/Removal Of   3

                              COMPLAINTS

Food and Retail Service Complaints          7
General Nuisance                            9
Air, Noise, and Odor Complaints             7
Housing Complaints                          6
Lead Paint Tests                            2
Lead Paint Follow-Up                        2
Exterior Sanding                            5
Radon Gas Inquiry                           0
Oil Spill Incidents                         2
Red Tide Notifications                      3
Court Subpoena                              1
Mold                                        2

      NORTH SHORE TOBACCO CONTROL PROGRAM

In accordance with the North Shore Area Boards of Health Collaborative grant
requirements, two compliance checks were conducted in FY09. The outcomes of
these checks were as follows:


Date             No. of Establishments Checked: Compliance Achieved
2-17-09          12 Checked with no violations  100% rate
11-21-09         12 Checked with no violations  100% rate




                                      126
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


In addition to the compliance checks, the North Shore Tobacco Control Program
conducts one educational visit at each permitted establishment as well as a visit to
assess the emerging number of Other Tobacco Products (OTP) and crossover
paraphernalia items being sold at local establishments.

As a result of the OTP assessment a presentation was made to the Board and an
informative article was published in the Marblehead Reporter and is posted on the
Department of Public Health (DPH) http://makessmokinghistory.org/en
US/news/36/56/Parents-caught-off guard-outraged-by-tobacco-products-aimed-at-
kids.html website. The program provides all permitted establishment with required
signage, checks permits, and provides training opportunities for merchants and their
staff.

                      COMMUNITY FACT SHEET
Marblehead, Massachusetts Data Updated: 12/7/09

Cigarette Smoking
An estimated 1,351 smokers live in Marblehead (8.7% of adults, age 18+).
The adult smoking rate is 46 percent lower in Marblehead than statewide (8.7% in
Marblehead compared to 16.1% statewide).
The rate of smoking during pregnancy in Marblehead is 85 percent lower than for
the overall state of Massachusetts (1.1% in Marblehead compared to 7.4%
statewide).
MassHealth Tobacco Cessation Benefit
Since coverage of the tobacco cessation began in July 2006, 71 MassHealth
smokers from Marblehead have used the benefit - an estimated 53.4% of
MassHealth smokers living in Marblehead. Statewide, more than
75,000 MassHealth smokers (40.8%) have used the tobacco cessation benefit since
July 2006.
QuitWorks
Health care providers referred 7 smokers living in Marblehead to the QuitWorks
program to help them quit smoking. In addition, 16 people from Marblehead called
the Massachusetts Smokers' Helpine to quit smoking (fiscal years 2004 to 2009).
Illegal Tobacco Sales to Minors
The rate of illegal sales to minors (those under age 18) is 26 percent lower in
Marblehead (8.6%) compared to the state of Massachusetts (11.6%) based on data
from FY 2008.
Health Effects of Smoking




                                       127
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Mortality from lung cancer is 34 percent lower among males in Marblehead
compared to the state of Massachusetts. Mortality from lung cancer is not
significantly different among females in Marblehead compared to the state of
Massachusetts.
The rate of hospitalizations for lung cancer is not significantly different among
females in Marblehead compared to the state of Massachusetts.
The rate of hospitalizations for lung cancer is 24 percent lower among males in
Marblehead compared to the state of Massachusetts.
Massachusetts Department of Public Health
Tobacco Cessation and Prevention Program
(617) 624-5900 www.mass.gov/dph/mtcp


     HAWC (HEALING ABUSE WORKING FOR CHANGE)
       REPORT OF TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD FY2009
HAWC officially changed its name on October 1, 2009, the first day of Domestic
Violence Awareness Month. For over 30 years, HAWC has been known as Help for
Abused Women and their Children. The new name and logo reflect the fact that
HAWC serves all individuals who are in abusive relationships: women, men and
transgender individuals; adults, adolescents and senior; gay, lesbian, bisexual and
heterosexual people; those with children and those without.

HAWC’s new name and logo capture the strength and resiliency of survivors as
they move out of fear and despair to hope and independence. It also captures
HAWC’s two-fold mission: to support the healing process individuals and families
go through as they work to free themselves from abuse and to change the social
norms and individual behaviors that perpetuate violence and oppression.

Community-wide knowledge about the tactics of perpetrators prepares everyone to
recognize the warning signs of abuse and how to get help. Domestic abuse takes
many forms but its goal is always the same: to control one’s partner. Tactics of
control include emotional, physical, economic, social and sexual abuse. Name-
calling, belittling, stalking, isolating one from family and friends, intimidation, and
threats of harm are all abusive whether they involve physical violence or not.

Founded in 1978, the mission of HAWC is to create social change by taking action
against personal and societal patterns of violence and oppression. HAWC provides
services and support to victims of domestic abuse residing in the 23 cities and towns




                                         128
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


on the North Shore in order that they may make informed, independent decisions
about their futures.

Based in Salem with outreach offices in Gloucester, Ipswich, Beverly and Lynn,
HAWC provides the following free services: a 24-hour hotline, emergency shelter,
advocacy in courts, police departments and healthcare settings, trauma recovery
counseling for adults and children, support groups, economic stability services,
relocation and rental assistance, prevention education in schools and communities.

In 2009, HAWC provided the following services:

Hotline calls                                 3,733 callers
Counseling and support                          780 individuals
Parent/child trauma recovery                    123 families
Youth Violence Prevention                     7,870 youth
Legal Advocacy                                2,146 individuals
Education and Training                        3,939 residents and professionals


Housing and Homelessness Prevention:

Emergency Shelter                             54 adults and 46 children
One-year Rental Assistance                    11 adult and 15 children
Rental Down-payment/Utilities                 19 adults and 37 children

Marblehead residents served by HAWC in FY 2009

Counseling and Support Services
   • 23 callers were supported through our 24-hour hotline
   • 2 residents attended support groups
   • 15 were seen in individual counseling
   • 23 were supported in court for restraining orders
   • 2 families were seen in the Parent/Child Trauma Recovery program
        (mother and child are seen in counseling together after the perpetrator is
        out of the home)

Shelter and Housing
    • 1 resident was provided with emergency shelter
    • 1 resident received rental assistance to prevent homelessness




                                        129
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Youth Violence Prevention
   • 120 Marblehead teens were educated about healthy dating relationships,
       warning signs of abusive relationships, how to help friends and HAWC
       resources.

If you or someone you know is living in fear of their partner, please call HAWC’s
24-hour, toll-free hotline at 800-547-1649. Contact and understanding from a person
outside an abusive relationship is often the one most important lifeline for a person
escaping from abuse. The more you know the more you see. You can become part
of the solution.

                     MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES
                        FISCAL YEAR 2009
Now in its 40th year, the Marblehead Counseling Center (MCC) has collaborated
with the Board of Health to provide the Town counseling, education and community
service. The MCC has afforded people the opportunity to work with highly trained
professionals on personal or community issues and concerns. Therapy is provided
to any resident or town worker regardless of his/her ability to pay a fee. Over and
above the $63,728 provided by the Health Department, MCC provided over $30,400
of free (unreimbursed) counseling services.

During fiscal year 2009, MCC provided direct therapy to over 496 different
individuals with 4,252 sessions offered for individual, couple, family and group
counseling. Therapists continued to help seniors in their homes who, because of
infirmities, could not make it to traditional services. Another 100 hours were spent
in outreach to teens and adults of our community in an effort to address their
specific problems. In addition, the Center ran socialization skills groups for all the
fourth graders at the Charter School.
Sometimes, during hard financial times, families struggle just to survive. MCC has
become the place that people can get connected with resources that will help them,
whether it is paying overdue bills, assistance with housing, or connections to
medical and dental treatment. Throughout the year a large number of town
residents have received these social services from MCC’s social service aides.

The Counseling Center has also continued to encourage the development of healthy
children in Marblehead. This year the Center has been working with a small group
to develop an effective teen center. Also, a coalition of community leaders and
teens was formed in April to address adolescents’ high use of alcohol and other
drugs.




                                        130
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




The Marblehead Counseling Center has always had a very strong commitment to
improving the community of which it is a part. In fiscal year 2009, the organization
gave over 400 hours as a participant in many community committees and task
forces. Another part of this commitment is providing community mediation, which
empowers persons to settle differences and disputes in a productive manner that
avoids court intervention; six such mediations occurred in the last year.

MCC will remain a vital part of our community and provide counseling, social
work, educational and community services for years to come.


                   ORGANIC PEST MANAGEMENT

The Board of Health promulgated Organic Pest Management Regulations under the
authority granted under M.G.L. Chapter III, Section 31. This provides that Boards
of Health may make reasonable health regulations. Under the authority granted to
the Marblehead Board of Health under MA G.L. Chapter III, Section 122 the BOH
may make regulations for the public health and safety, relative nuisances and causes
of sickness.

Copies of the Organic Pest Management Regulations are available in the Board of
Health office at the Mary Alley Municipal Building at 7 Widger Road.

                  SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING

It is a constant challenge to address solid waste issues that face the town. It is a
difficult task to address the environmental and increasing cost controls placed on the
town by state and federal agencies. It is time that we refocus and substantially
decrease the amount of waste we generate and increase the amount of recycling we
separate from that waste.
     • Marblehead generated 9,135 tons of trash in 2009 a decrease of 228 tons.
     • Marblehead recycled a total of 2,311.7 tons of paper, commingled
          material, cardboard, metal, and Swap Shed material out of the waste stream
          realizing diversion savings of $234,061.65 **
     • 2,240 gallons of waste oil was collected for processing. This includes
          Town Garages
     •     1,197 Televisions and 689 Computer Monitors were recycled.




                                        131
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



    •    Two Household Hazardous Waste Days were conducted jointly with the
         Town of Swampscott and collected materials from over 300 households.
    • Document Shredding /Recycling are held every other Household
         Hazardous Waste Day.
** The diversion savings decrease reflects directly to a small reduction in recycled
paper as well as a significant negotiated decrease in waste disposal cost with Waste
Management the Town’s disposal contractor.

                       RECYCLING COMMITTEE
The Recycling Committee is a valuable volunteer resource for the Town. The
weekly “Recycling Tips” article in the Marblehead Reporter takes time and
commitment and is greatly appreciated and well read. Their staffing booth at the
Farmers’ Market selling compost and recycling bins and the assistance at HHW Day
is to be commended. The Committee has brought businesses and citizens interested
in current and future trends as well as local adherence to recycling in Marblehead.
The Board looks forward to utilizing this group of dedicated residents and
businesses as we address the solid waste and recycling challenges and opportunities
facing the Town.

            COMPOSTING AND YARD WASTE DISPOSAL

    2009 organic matter, vegetation, brush, wood waste generation and processing
    figures:
         • Composted material: 18,540 cubic yards = 3,090 tons.
         • Spring/summer leaves & grass: 12,860 cubic yards = 2,143 tons.
         • Woodchips (Town Tree Department): 4,640 cubic yards = 773 tons.
         • Brush: 8,650 cubic yards = 1,442 tons.

The Town continues to work with Recreation and Parks as well as local landscape
businesses in an effort to formulate a compost material suitable for garden and lawn
construction as well as large scale restoration projects. The Town realized a small
amount of revenue from this material and will be using it for restoration purposes in
areas affected by the landfill remediation project.

                   OLD LANDFILL REMEDIATION

A comprehensive description of the design and construction phases along with
timely opportunities was presented to the annual town meeting in May 2007. A




                                        132
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


subsequent capital exclusion override for $1,010,000 was voted positively by the
Town. Additional environmental testing has been requested by the MA DEP for
some abutting properties. The need to address infrastructure relocation with other
Town Departments and Commissions is ongoing . Basic conceptual design issues
are still being prepared for meetings with the neighbors, abutters, and Town Boards
and Commissions for input and approval. The Board of Health will be before the
annual 2010 Town Meeting to present construction plans for landfill remediation, a
new Transfer Station, and redesigned recycling and yard waste areas.

                                  SWAP SHED
The Swap Shed at the Transfer Station continues to be very popular and more
importantly a very useful means of re-using many different types of household
materials and appliances. The staff of hearty volunteers that operate, organize, and
perform crowd control every Saturday are to be commended. The Board wishes to
recognize these volunteers and express appreciation for their efforts to reduce the
amount that is “thrown away” annually instead of reused.

In closing the Board of Health commends its office and transfer station staff for
their adaptability to constant change, their dedication and devotion to their positions
and the Town. As Director of this Department I am very appreciative of the staff in
both the Public Health and Waste Division under the jurisdiction of the Board of
Health. These are the people that are here working in the rain, bitter cold, snow,
heat, and are handling the complaints, working extra unpaid hours to provide the
finest municipal service they can. The Board wishes to thank other Town
Departments for assistance and cooperation in the form of manpower, equipment,
and other resources. Bi-monthly administrative staff meetings with the Town
Administrator are important and appreciated from a support and cooperative effort
standpoint. The Board also thanks Town Planner Rebecca Curran, who has assisted
the Health Dept. in applying for and administering worthwhile grants of money,
equipment, technical assistance, and Chapter 30B Procurement issues. The Board of
Health and the Town are fortunate to have a willing and able group of volunteers
assisting in all aspects of our operation. The Board of Health thanks all those
volunteers.

HEALTH OFFICE STAFF
Rochelle Bartlett-Ayer, RN, Public Health Nurse
Roberta Cody, Health Inspector
Joan Sherman, Senior Clerk




                                         133
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



TRANSFER STATION STAFF
Peter Haskell, Leader Heavy Equipment Operator
Jose’ Fagundes, Heavy Equipment Operator
Michael Louizos, Heavy Equipment Operator
John Perry, Seasonal Labor
Annette Louizos, Part-time Clerk
Kay Monahan, Special Clerk
Karen Patch, Part-time Clerk

Respectfully Submitted,
Helaine R. Hazlett, B.S., Chairman
Todd Belfbecker, D.M.D.
Michelle Gottlieb

Wayne O. Attridge
Director of Public Health




                                     134
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



BUILDING COMMISSIONER & INSPECTIONAL SERVICES

The Inspectional Services Department ensures public safety, health and welfare by
regulating construction through Federal, State and Local Codes and By-Laws.

A total of 618 Building permits were issued in 2009 including those for 9 new single
family dwellings, of which 8 involved the demolition of existing buildings.
Renovation of the Village School began this year and continues on schedule. Based
on an estimated cost of construction of $46,157,501 this activity produced fees of
$580,603 for the General Fund.

Electrical, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting permits generated an additional $55,110 in
inspectional fees for the General Fund.

The Department also issued 155 Roofing permits, 12 Sign permits and 12 Stove
permits, which produced an additional $5,310 for the General Fund.

The Building Department, in conjunction with the Fire Prevention Office, conducts
annual inspections of public and private schools, churches and temples, day care
centers, food service establishments, nursing homes, and private clubs.

The department extends deepest sympathy to the family of William R. Doane, former
Building Commissioner and Local Inspector, who regrettably passed away in March
and expresses our appreciation for his many years of outstanding service to the Town
of Marblehead. We welcome John Albright to our staff as a Local Inspector.

Estimated Cost of Construction activity for the past decade in millions of dollars
 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
 23.1 22.6 24.2 23.4 39.2 43.4 33.3 38.1                            25.1 46.2

Respectfully submitted;

Robert S. Ives, Jr., Building Commissioner
Chris G. Butler, Local Inspector
John Albright, Local Inspector
Ronald J. Marks, Wire Inspector
Eric F. S. Chisholm, Assistant Wire Inspector
Domingos Furtado, Plumbing & Gas Inspector




                                         135
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Peter McCarriston, Assistant Plumbing & Gas Inspector
Mary A. Allain, Special Clerk
Ellen Vaughn, Data Entry Clerk
Ed Medeiros, Public Buildings
Steve Ware, Public Buildings




                                      136
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



       CABLE TELEVISION OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE
The main work of the Cable Television Oversight Committee in 2009 included
setting up MCAM, a non-profit corporation to run local channels and television
operations in Marblehead, conducting negotiations and awarding of a license to
Verizon for bringing cable television service to Marblehead, and conducting
ascertainment in preparations for license-renewal negotiations with Comcast.

In 2009 the Committee established an Access Corporation to run the local television
channels on the cable system. Bylaws were written, and papers were filed with the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts to set up a non-profit Corporation. The Selectmen
interviewed potential members of the Corporation. A representative of the Cable
Television Oversight Committee, a representative from the School Department, and
three at-large members formed the first Access Committee. Comcast then moved
control of the local channel to the new non-profit, called Marblehead Cable and
Media. Operation of local programming under local control thus began this year.

The year also saw the completion of negotiations with Verizon to bring cable
television service to Marblehead, and the subsequent awarding of a 10-year license.
The license included agreements to help support the Access Corporation, and carry
television programming from locations within the Town, including the local studio,
the Performing Arts Center, and points in the schools.

With the license awarded to Verizon, and the establishment of the non-profit to run
local programming, attention turned to negotiations with Comcast Communications.
Comcast’s current license expires in June 2010, so ascertainment began in
preparation for negotiations. Among ascertainment activities, a public hearing was
held, soliciting comments to develop positions for these negotiations.

Respectfully submitted,


Paul Rabin, Chairman
Nancy Marrs, Secretary
Wayne Avridson
David Keniston
Peter Lazarus
Ron Olson
Alan Raymond




                                       137
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                     CEMETERY DEPARTMENT

The Marblehead Cemetery Department respectfully submits our Annual Report for
the Calendar year ending December 31, 2009.

The Board of Commissioners has three members who are elected to three-year,
staggered terms. The Commission sets policy, establishes regulations and oversees
the cemetery budget. The Cemetery Department is administered by a
Superintendent appointed by the Commissioners, who has jurisdiction over all
Town Cemeteries.

The Cemetery Department is responsible for the complete maintenance of
Waterside Cemetery, as well as, Harbor View Cemetery. The Recreation and Parks
Department is responsible for the cutting and trimming of the grass at Old Burial
Hill, Harris Street, and Green Street Cemeteries. The Cemetery Department takes
care of any other maintenance that is needed at these historic cemeteries.

For the fiscal year 2009 the sum of $289,866.72 was expended on salaries and
wages. The sum of $20,806.73 was spent on maintenance expenses. To defray the
cost of these expenditures the sum of $45,000.00 came from the Perpetual Care
Fund.

The Cemetery Department turned over to the Town Treasurer for the General Fund
the sum of $ 62,755.84 received from charges and fees in fiscal 2008:

      Grave Fees                                              $ 50,100.00
      Chapel Fees                                                  750.00
      Foundation and Inscriptions Fees                          11,890.84
      Annual Care Receipts                                           0.00
      Misc. & Vault Fees                                            15.00
                                                              $ 62,755.84


This Department keeps abreast with a survey of Commonwealth Communities and
Private Cemeteries as to the fees that are charged and then makes adjustments in
fees accordingly.

The sum of $21,547.50 was received from the sale of lots and the sum of
$22,532.50 was received from bequests to the Perpetual Care Fund. The sum of
$140.00 was received from bequests to the Eternal Flame Fund.




                                      138
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


There were two Gravestone Rubbing Permits issued this year. These permits cost
$10.00 and are used only at the Old Burial Hill. The total income receipts for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 2009 was $ 106,995.84.

The total number of interments for the Calendar year was 113 of which 74 were
cremations.

During this past year the Cemetery Department lost a nice and caring man, Dexter
Gillis. Dexter served on the board from the mid 90’s to the summer of 2009 when
he passed away. Dexter was the Chairperson for the Cemetery Board of
Commissioners for the past ten years. We will surely miss Dexter for the care he
had for his Town – “Marblehead Forever”.

The Cemetery Department would like to thank the Gerry #5 for the paying of the
eternal flame during the summer months, also the VFW for helping keep the pool
up and running, and Eustis & Cornell Funeral Home for the wreath hanging at the
Bell Tower during the Holidays. We would also like to thank Liz Grader for her
volunteer work. Thanks also to the Highway, Park & Recreation, Water & Sewer,
Tree and Light Departments for their help in getting the cemeteries ready for
Memorial Day and during the year.

The Department would like to welcome aboard David Cashman to the Commission.
We would also like to thank Bret Gifford for almost thirty years of service as the
Heavy Equipment Operator for this Department.

During the year 2009, the Department employed Frank James as mechanic, Bret
Gifford as heavy equipment operator, William Stanton and Brian Ware as laborers,
and Catherine Kobialka as office manager. Our Cemetery Board of Commissioners
consisted of, Dexter C. Gillis as Chairman, Rose A. McCarthy as clerk, and
Richard F. Coletti.

Respectfully submitted,
William H. James
Superintendent




                                      139
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                   CONSERVATION COMMISSION

This report is for Calendar Year 2009. The purpose of the Marblehead Conservation
Commission is twofold. First, to implement the safeguards specified in the state
Wetlands Protection Act, the state Stormwater Management Policy and the
Marblehead Wetlands Protection Bylaw in order to help preserve and protect the
wetlands and water resources in our Town. Second, to maintain and protect the
conservation lands held in trust for all residents of our Town. Of the six
communities adjacent to Salem Sound, Marblehead and Salem have the highest
density of population, with corresponding pressures on our open space and water
resources. The quality of life in Marblehead and its attractiveness is in part
dependent on these resources and we urge all Marblehead residents to join in our
efforts to preserve and protect them.

The Commission held regular meetings and public hearings throughout the year
2009. We continued to assist residents in their construction projects while guiding
them in their endeavors to protect the wetland resources potentially affected by their
construction. A major ongoing effort of the Commission is the management and
mitigation of pollution caused by storm water runoff. This polluting runoff comes
from streets, parking lots, driveways and lawns. Lawn chemicals, oil and coolant
leaks from vehicles, animal waste, paints disposed of in catch basins (storms drains
in our streets) - all these pollutants/nutrients eventually end up in our streams and
ocean. The effort to mitigate this pollution will require a long term change in the
thinking and actions on the part of the general public and in our approach to public
infrastructure. The Marblehead Water & Sewer Department already follows the
guidelines established by the state to mitigate stormwater pollution runoff into our
ocean waters.

The Commission reminds everyone that our ponds are all in the process of filling in
with vegetation. This is a natural process, especially with shallow ponds, and is
caused or accelerated, in part, by the inflow of chemicals and fertilizers from
abutting lawns and storm water runoff. If you live directly on one of our ponds,
please do not fertilize your lawn without guidance from the Commission.

Marblehead has exhausted (read developed) more than 95% of its buildable land.
With all the roofs, driveways, streets, parking areas and other impervious surfaces
we have built ourselves into one huge catch basin. This has exacerbated our drain
problems. All those little open fields, land depressions and pocket wetlands where




                                        140
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


storm water used to be able to collect and gently seep into the ground are, for the
most part, gone.

Again this year, we wish to express our gratitude to the Marblehead Conservancy
for its continuing efforts to restore walking paths in our conservation lands and for
its ongoing program to remove invasive plant species, which are strangling native
vegetation in the conservation lands. Since your Conservation Commission has no
budget or staff for managing the conservation lands, the ongoing efforts of the
Conservancy to preserve and protect these very valuable resources are crucial to the
health of these areas.

The Commission lost a very valuable administrator in the person of Douglas Saal
who retired but we are fortunate to have a very capable replacement, Willy
Lanphear. We wish them both well.

Please visit us on the Town web site, www.marblehead.org, to find information on
our meeting schedules, help with filing permit applications and accessing the
minutes of our meetings.

Respectfully submitted,
Marblehead Conservation Commission

Walter Haug, Chairman
Deborah Payson, Member
Frederick Sullivan, Member
Donald Tritschler, Member
Craig A. Smith, Member
Brian LeClair, Member
Ken Fisher, Member




                                        141
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                           COUNCIL ON AGING

The Council on Aging respectfully submits its annual report for the year ending
December 31, 2009.

The COA, along with Keystone associates and Clark Willmott, received the “2009
MCOA Innovator of the Year” award for its “Wisdom Works” employment
program at the Massachusetts Association of Councils on Aging Fall conference.
The program consisted of self assessment, resume writing, interviewing skills and
networking. The COA also celebrated its 40th Anniversary with several special
events including a dance at the community center and a 1969 Trivia Contest. The
year also saw the retirement of two long time COA employees: Maxine Stromberg,
Activity Coordinator, and Ron Birchmore, Van Driver.

The Council on Aging provided programs and services to 3,179 seniors (age 60 or
more) and 2,248 non-seniors (including family members and caregivers) during the
past year. 2009 COA programs and services designed to keep elders independent,
remain healthy and stay connected with the community included:

Health/Wellness Screenings and Services: 516 health screenings and weekly
wellness clinics by the Public Health Nurse and the VNA were provided. The Board
of Health held one flu clinic at the Center that served more than 500 individuals.
Weekly sessions of chair massage were available at the center.
Transportation: 7006 rides were provided to 122 senior citizens to medical
appointments, the senior center, shopping, nursing home visits, volunteer positions
and on errands. Another 75 rides were provided to 3 individuals under the age of 60
and disabled.
Nutrition: 14,734 home delivered meals were provided to 106 home bound
individuals and 1,684 meals were provided to 128 seniors at the center. Home
bound individuals were treated to “The Lazy, Hazy Days of Summer” by North
Shore Elder Services which included a lobster roll lunch and ice cream sundaes
delivered by volunteers. The Gerry #5 provided a fish lunch at the annual picnic.
Education: 281 individuals took advantage of the many educational offerings at
the senior center including presentations on finances, memory loss, elder law, health
plan options, driving, proper disposal of prescription drug, and fraud protection. An
Energy Savings Seminar was also presented. 31 seniors received computer training.
Fitness and Exercise: 496 older adults participated in fitness and exercise classes
that included weight training, yoga, physical therapy, osteo prevention, stretching,
strength & stretch, tai chi, better balance and Zumba. With the Recreation and Parks
Dept, the COA utilized Shattuck Funds to renovate the woodshop at the Community




                                        142
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Center and turn it into a fitness room with exercise equipment. The Fitness Center is
available to all Marblehead residents on a prescribed schedule.
Recreation and Arts/Crafts Activities: 1144 sessions of bridge, Mah Jongg,
cribbage, bingo, oil painting, golf, drawing, knitting, quilting, crafts, line dance,
country line dance, tap dance, book discussion, watercolor painting, wood carving
and attracted individuals. The COA received a Local Cultural Council grant for
“Drawing For Seniors” , an 8 week drawing class by Artist Paula Beaulieu.
Travel Opportunities: The COA sponsored day and overnight trips for 173
seniors. Destinations included the Canadian Rockies by rail, the Statue of Liberty,
the Tall Ships, Hyannis Harbor cruise, LaSalette Shrine holiday lights, the Turkey
Train, European Tulip River cruise and Foxwoods.
Social Events: Social events included the annual picnic at the Gerry #5 and
monthly luncheons with entertainment to celebrate the holidays and seasons.
Special events were held for Senior Center Week. The Men’s Group continues to
grow and speakers this year included Town administrator Tony Sasso, Ch. 5 Harvey
Leonard and physicians from NSMC. The VNA Care Network and Hospice
underwrote the series again for the year.
Safety: The COA continues to sponsor, along with the Essex County Sheriff’s Dept
and the Marblehead Police Dept, the Marblehead TRIAD, which meets monthly at
the center. The group sponsored the Yellow Dot Program, the File of Life program,
and weekly shredding sessions to avoid identity theft. In addition, the group
developed “My Personal Information Record” for elders to record information
needed by family members in case of an emergency.
Health Insurance Counseling: The COA has two trained SHINE (Serving the
Health Insurance Needs of Elders) counselors – one staff and one volunteer- to
assist senior citizens with questions and concerns about their health insurance and
prescription coverage. 73 seniors were served.
Property Tax Work Off Program: Administered by the COA, this program
assisted 28 seniors who volunteered their services to the town in exchange for up to
$750 credit on their real estate tax bills.
Outreach: Outreach staff contacted 87 individuals to acquaint them with COA
programs and services. Referrals of seniors who may need assistance were received
from the police and fire departments and other agencies. More than 3,900 referrals
were made to other agencies such as North Shore Elder Services, the Marblehead
Counseling Center and the fuel assistance program. Farmers Market coupons were
distributed to 50 individuals. An Alzheimer’s Caregivers Support Group was
facilitated by Mary Demakes, RN.
Information and Referral: More than 2,900 seniors and 2,200 non-seniors
contacted the COA for information and more than 3,900 referrals were made to
other agencies. 3,000 copies of the monthly newsletter, The Old Marblehead Cod,




                                        143
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


were distributed monthly. The COA also maintains website pages on the town
website.
Volunteer Opportunities: 93 volunteers provided 4,647 hours of service to the
COA in a variety of roles including board members, lunch servers, activity leaders,
and instructors. Linda Hall was presented with the COA Volunteer of the Year
award at the annual picnic for her work in refurbishing the center lobby.
Intergenerational Events: The Marblehead Veterans Middle School held a talent
show and donated the $3000 proceeds to the COA for its programs and once again
the “Senior Moments” Tap Dance group performed at the show. Thirty seniors were
assisted with snow shoveling by students from the Marblehead Veterans Middle
School.
Employment Assistance: The COA, with the help of Keystone Assoc., Clark
Willmott and five HR volunteers provided four 4-week sessions of “Wisdom
Works”. 37 individuals have completed the program.
          The Town of Marblehead appropriated $184,874 for FY 10 for the COA.
In addition, the COA was awarded a Title IIIC federal grant of $21,953 for its
nutrition programs and a Title IIIB federal grant of $6,079 for its outreach program
by North Shore Elder Services for the period 10/1/09-9/30/10. The Marblehead
COA was awarded a state Formula Grant for FY 10 in the amount of $28,595. The
COA also receives a monthly donation from the Marblehead Female Humane
Society to fund the part-time use of the second van and its driver for the
transportation program. The COA depends on donations and the Friends of the
COA for additional funding.

       The staff of the Council on Aging is to be commended for their
commitment to serving the senior residents of Marblehead:
       Director…………………………Patricia C. Roberts
       Activities Director………………Janice Salisbury Beal
       Senior Day Center Coordinator…Jan DePaolo
       Outreach Worker………………..Audrey Connolly
       Site Manager……………………Thais Asainte
       Van Chauffeurs…………………Patricia Medeiros, Glover Preble
       MOW Drivers………….Diane LeBoeuf, Virginia Power, Jeanne Ventura
       Clerk…………………………… Caryle Wildfield
       Maintenance…………………….John Belanger

Respectfully submitted,
          Ed Bell, Chairman         Catherine Brown             John Crowley
          Joe Dever                 Rens Havens                 Maureen Horan
          Jeanne Louizos            Freda Maguire               Liz Michaud




                                       144
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

The Marblehead Department of Public Works is pleased to submit its’ report for the
calendar year 2009.

Over the past year our employees have been very busy performing the necessary
maintenance to keep our public ways clean, clear and safe. Some of the services
provided include: pothole repair and patching, trench repair, sidewalk maintenance
and rebuilding, traffic lining, street sign installation and repair, street sweeping, and
of course snow removal.

As in the past, a major part of the Department’s funding comes from the State by
way of Chapter 90 funds. This money is used primarily for reconstruction and
repaving of our roads. This year our Chapter 90 funds went to pave Cherry St.,
Cedar St., Cypress St., Lindberg Rd., Homestead Rd. Alden Rd., Columbia Rd.,
Clifton Ave., and Rockcliff Rd.

For the second straight year our snowfall averaged around 60”. Much of this snow
was centered around holiday periods. Due to excellent participation by the
approximately 45 people involved in the plowing operation as well as good
equipment and maintenance, all snow was removed in a timely fashion and roads
kept passable throughout the operation.

As always, the DPW wishes to thank you the customer, for your cooperation and
understanding as we work to make improvements to the public ways. We also
would like to recognize all the other town employees who pitch in during other
major events. I wish to also recognize Jim “Zoomer” Foss who for over 43 years
was a snow plow operator in the down town area. Jim was recently retired and he
will be greatly missed.

In closing, this will be my final year as DPW Director. While I have worked for the
Water & Sewer Commission 37 ½ years, this completes only 3 years with the DPW.
I wish to thank the Board of Selectmen for their support and compliment all the
employees of the DPW for their efforts in making this another successful year.

Congratulation’s to David Donahue on being named the new DPW Director.




                                          145
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Employee                                          Occupation

Dana Snow                                         Director
David Donahue                                     Assistant Director
Susan Hogan                                       Senior Clerk
Robert Nauss                                      Mechanic
William Montgomery                                Mechanic
Christopher Phillips                              Mechanic
Arthur Graves                                     Working Foreman
Steven Magrane                                    Working Foreman
Robert Mace                                       Working Foreman
James DeCoste                                     Heavy Equipment Operator
Robert Delisle, Jr.                               Heavy Equipment Operator
Dave Perry                                        Heavy Equipment Operator
Robert Pollard                                    Heavy Equipment Operator
Robert Titus                                      Heavy Equipment Operator



Respectfully Submitted,

Dana E. Snow
Director of Public Works/Supt. Water, Sewer & Drain Depts.




                                     146
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                     ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT

2009 brought significant change to the Engineering Department. In June, Douglas W.
Saal retired after serving for over 29 years as the Town Engineer. Doug had
professionally and faithfully managed the Engineering Department, bringing it from its
pre-computer years into the digital mapping and Geographic Information System (GIS) in
use today. Doug always held the interest of the Town paramount in all interactions with
contractors, engineers, land surveyors, attorneys and the public. His education,
experience and professional background served the Town very well. We wish him the
best in a well deserved retirement.

On June 1, 2009 William C. Lanphear was hired to head the Engineering Department in
the role of Engineering and Conservation Administrator. Willy is a licensed Professional
Land Surveyor with 36 years of experience in land surveying and engineering projects.
Having worked on a large number of properties in Marblehead for private residents and
for several Town Departments, Willy brings a wealth of personal knowledge regarding
property boundaries, and street line locations in town. He’s also very familiar with the
Town’s drain system having worked on a town wide drain mapping program in the
1990’s. Prior work in Marblehead, and familiarity with the town’s maps and record
keeping system, has made his transition as the new department head a relatively smooth
one.

During 2009, the Engineering Department provided engineering and surveying services
to several town boards, Commissions and departments. Street line research and
determinations were provided as requested and survey plans were prepared. Working
closely with members of the Recreation and Park Commission, surveys and plans were
provided for proposed maintenance and improvements at Crocker Park. Plans and
descriptions were also provided relative to several new parking regulations. Working
closely with the Assessor’s office, the Engineering Department provided assistance in
keeping property ownership records up to date.

Throughout 2009, the Engineering Department provided administrative, clerical, record
keeping and budgetary support to the Conservation Commission, Planning Board and
Zoning Board of Appeals. Maps are prepared from the Town’s GIS for projects
submitted to these Boards to identify the abutters and any other parties necessary to
receive notice of public hearings. Legal advertisements were prepared and submitted to
local newspapers for all projects requiring a public hearing. Numerous plans were
reviewed throughout the year for projects submitted to these Boards and the Conservation




                                         147
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Commission. Site inspections were routinely done to verify compliance with permits
issued and to address any violations noted or reported to the department.

The department continues a long tradition of storing and providing copies of historic
survey and engineering field notes, records and plans from the Map Room at the Mary
Alley Building. These historically important records and plans are routinely needed by
engineers, land surveyors, and attorneys in the course of their work. Residents also come
in for research and copies. Copies are provided for a nominal fee.

Engineering Department personnel:
        William C. Lanphear, Engineering and Conservation Administrator
        Andrea H. Flaxer, Special Clerk

Respectfully submitted,

William C. Lanphear, PLS
Engineering and Conservation Administrator




                                          148
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                          FINANCIAL SERVICES


The Financial Services Department is responsible for the Town’s financial
functions, including accounting, payroll, revenue collection, budgeting, capital
financing and retirement management. The Financial Services Department is
overseen by the Town's Finance Director. The Finance Director also serves as the
Town Accountant and is responsible for the management of Information
Technology for the Town.

Within Financial Services, the Accounting office is responsible for the audit and
approval of all Town expenditures and preparation of various accounting and
financial reports required by the State’s Department of Revenue. The Revenue
office is responsible for distribution of payroll and vendor checks and collection of
taxes and fees owed to the Town. Both the Treasurer and the Collector functions
are performed by this office. The Payroll Office performs all payroll functions and
administers various employee fringe benefits, including health insurance, flexible
spending plans, 457 deferred compensation plans, and life insurance.

The department publishes a separate Comprehensive Annual Financial Report
(CAFR) for the Town on a fiscal year basis (July 1 to June 30) each year. A Copy
of the latest CAFR is available by contacting the Finance Director’s Office.

Among the more important accomplishments of the Financial Services department
during 2009 were:

    •    Received for the fifth consecutive year the Certificate of Achievement for
         Excellence in Financial Reporting from the Government Finance Officers
         Association. This award is only given to government units whose
         comprehensive annual financial reports (CAFRs) achieve the highest
         standards in government accounting and financial reporting. Marblehead
         was one of only 19 Massachusetts communities to receive this award last
         year.

    •    Completed the annual open enrollment process in May for employee and
         retiree health insurance. The Town purchases health plans through the
         Massachusetts Interlocal Insurance Association (MIIA).




                                        149
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



•   Continued the management of a Wellness Campaign for employees
    covered by the various Blue Cross Blue Shield plan options offered by the
    Town.

•   Managed the Town’s Official Website. This work includes managing the
    content of the website to ensure completeness and accuracy,
    implementation of new website features, and assisting other town
    departments with their website content. In 2009, the town began posting
    meeting agendas for many of the town boards and committees on the
    website.

•   Managed the on-line payment option available for taxpayers to use in the
    payment of their Real Estate and Personal Property taxes as well as Motor
    Vehicle and Boat Excise Taxes. In 2009, the on-line payment option
    continued to be enhanced with the addition of an on-line payment option
    for water and sewer bills.

•   Completed a procurement process connected with the selection of a new
    flexible spending administrator for this employee fringe benefit.

•   Completed a capital financing on behalf of the Town involving the
    issuance of both long-term bonds and short-term notes to finance various
    capital projects undertaken by the Town. In the context of this financing
    the Town received an upgrade of its bond rating from AA+ to AAA from
    the rating agency of Standard & Poor’s.

•   Successfully implemented the process of submitting to the Massachusetts
    School Building Authority for the reimbursement owed in connection with
    eligible school building project expenditures.

•   Submitted all required Department of Revenue reports on schedule.




                                 150
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Financial Services Department Staff

John J. McGinn           Finance Director/Town Accountant
Robert Ross              Assistant Director – Accounting
Patricia Kelly Murray    Treasurer/Tax Collector
Barbara Kiernan          Payroll Administrator
Connie Ross              Assistant Revenue Officer
Paul Jalbert             Accounting & Website Assistant
Dmitriy Vaydman          Accounting Assistant
Matthew Barrett          Retirement Administrator
Kathy Harvey             Administrative Clerk – Payroll Office
Deb Christensen          Senior Clerk – Revenue Office
Dianne Rodgers           Senior Clerk – Revenue Office




                                      151
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                           FIRE DEPARTMENT

On behalf of the men and women of the Marblehead Fire Department, it is my
pleasure to submit to the citizens of Marblehead our Annual Report for the period
ending December 31, 2009.

First and foremost, the members of the Marblehead Fire Department take pride in
the fact that our skills, training, and professionalism are serving and protecting the
Town of Marblehead. Our mission is public safety and customer service. This
community puts its trust in us as emergency first responders, and expects that when
we answer a “911” call we are prepared, professional and able to perform as a team
in order to prevent harm, preserve life, and protect property. It is a tribute to
everyone in the Department that day-in and day-out, we meet that challenge and that
we do so under conditions that can be difficult and dangerous. I commend the men
and women of the Marblehead Fire Department who remain dedicated to providing
quality and innovative fire, rescue, and emergency medical services, to our
community.

The members of your fire department had another very busy year. In 2009 we
responded to 2396 requests for emergency assistance from our residents. These calls
varied in severity from serious medical emergencies to structure fires to more
routine types of emergencies, such as helping a resident get back up after they had
fallen. Any request to help our residents in their time of need is a dedication that
organizationally, we take very seriously, and we continually work to improve our
level of services to you.

Emergency Medical Services continue to put the highest demand on our department.
The department responded to 1,170 requests for emergency medical services. This
represents 48% of our entire run volume. The Department is licensed by the Office
of Emergency Medical Services to operate as an ambulance service at the basic
level in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Cardiac defibrillators are carried on
each piece of apparatus with all firefighters and officers certified in cardiac
defibrillation. We currently have 33 firefighters trained as Emergency Medical
Technicians (EMTs) and 2 trained as a Paramedic.

The following personnel changes were made in 2009. Lieutenant Joseph Jurasek
and Firefighter Michael Church left the department for other career opportunities.
Patrick Attridge, Steven Bivens, and Rob McKay were appointed as Permanent
Full-Time Firefighters. Adam Hatfield, Gregg McLaughlin, and Thomas Rice were
promoted to Permanent Lieutenants. Scott Murray and Daniel Rice were promoted




                                        152
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


to Permanent Captains. I extend my congratulations to each of these department
members on their appointments and promotions.

I would like to extend a long and healthy retirement to Captain Richard Bartlett and
Chief Barry C. Dixey. Chief Dixey became the department’s fourth permanent
Chief on October 25, 1998. In his tenure as Chief, he appointed more than fifty
percent of the current firefighters on the department and promoted all but three
officers. I am extremely grateful for his help, patience, and understanding during
my transition to Chief of Department. Captain Bartlett served as the department’s
grant writer from 2003 until his retirement. In that time, Captain Bartlett secured
more than $175,000.00 in grant money for the department. We owe a great debt of
gratitude to Captain Bartlett and Chief Dixey for their thirty-two years of dedication
and service to the department and the Town.

It is with great sorrow that we note the passing of retired Firefighter Frank A. Legro
and retired Call Firefighter Phillip Cash Sr. We are very grateful for their many
years of service to the Town of Marblehead, and they will be truly missed by all.

We continued to strengthen our Emergency Preparedness in many different areas.
The risk of an H1N1 epidemic was the main focus of 2009. The command staff
from the Fire Department, Police Department, Health Department, Town
Administrator, and Emergency Management Director worked tirelessly to formulate
a plan that allowed us to make available the H1N1 flu vaccine to large numbers of
people in a short period. It should also be noted that the Town’s Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan was again reviewed, updated and resubmitted to the
Commonwealth Executive Office of Public Safety. This was made possible by a
grant that was awarded to the Town’s Emergency Management Director, Lieutenant
Charles P. Cerrutti.

The Department applied for and received three grants during this past fiscal year.
The first grant that we received was the Student Awareness Fire Education (SAFE)
grant. These funds allow us to continue to send trained fire department personnel
into the schools to teach fire safety to the children. We were also successful in
securing a $37,485.00 Assistance to Firefighters grant from the Department of
Homeland Security. This grant made it possible for the department to purchase three
new state-of-the art thermal imaging cameras. The department was also very
fortunate to be awarded a $7,900.00 equipment grant from the state. The funds were
used to replace unserviceable turnout gear and boots.




                                        153
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


On December 3, 2009 nine members of the fire department were recognized at the
state’s Firefighter of the year awards ceremony for a team effort to rescue a
Marblehead youth on New Year’s Eve. The youth was found in a snow bank in sub-
zero temperatures and was suffering from hypothermia and severe frostbite. Thanks
to the efforts of these individuals, the youth has made almost a complete recovery.
Captain Daniel Rice accepted the Group Award for Meritorious Conduct on behalf
of his group, from Governor Deval Patrick. I would like to extend my
congratulations to Captain Daniel Rice, Lieutenant Tom Rice, Lieutenant Gregg
McLaughlin, Firefighters Arthur Broadway, Mark Fader, Charles Sprague, Eric
Thibodeau, and Matthew Tina, for a job well done and for being one of eight
departments in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to receive such an award.

The Department currently has thirty-one graduates of the Massachusetts
Firefighting Academy Recruit Training Program, and we will continue to request
funding for all new firefighters to attend this vital program. This twelve-week
program provides rigorous training to new recruits giving them the basic skills to
effectively and safely perform their jobs. Firefighters Steve Bivens, Rob McKay
and Patrick Attridge graduated from the recruit program this past year.

In September the department took delivery of a new 2010 Ford Escape; this vehicle
will be used by the Fire Prevention Division and will replace the 1995 Ford
Explorer that was previously used.

We continue to work hard on maintaining Central Headquarters and the Franklin
Street station. At Central Headquarters, the roof was repaired; department members
removed and sealed up two pole holes for health and safety reasons. The fire alarm
system was upgraded by replacing the outdated smoke detectors. The department
members in cooperation with the Tree Warden and his staff removed the overgrown
shrubbery from the front of the station and replanted new shrubs. At Franklin
Street, we installed a new fire alarm system that is now connected to a municipal
master box. The members assigned to Franklin Street have also invested
considerable time and effort in maintaining the historic station.

With the assistance of the Town Administrator, Selectman, and the department
mechanics we have been given the added ability to enhance the preventative
maintenance program for all the fire apparatus. The increase in our maintenance
budget affords us the opportunity to find and correct safety issues with the apparatus
twice a year instead of the customary yearly inspection.




                                        154
                                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


We have stayed on course with our replacement schedule for turnout gear and
equipment. This year we replaced nine sets of turnout gear and we will be looking
to replace seven more this coming year. We also purchased several hundred feet of
fire hose, hand nozzles, blitz guns, and other assorted tools and medical equipment.

We continue to benefit from the Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-Off Program
sponsored by the Council on Aging. This program has been extremely valuable to
this Department and the work performed by these volunteers is truly appreciated.

I would like to thank all the citizens of the town of Marblehead, the business
community, the town administrator, the board of selectmen, and all other town
departments for their support of the Fire Department. A special thanks to the Police
Department and the Highway Department for all their help during the year.

I would like to express my gratitude to all Department members and dispatchers for
their professionalism, dedication and enthusiasm. They are the heart and soul of the
department and it is only through their efforts that the department will continue to
be able to provide the level of service the residents of the Town have come to
expect. They have my sincere gratitude and appreciation for the excellent job that
they do on a daily basis.

Respectfully submitted,
Jason R. Gilliland
Chief of Department



Type of               Jan       Feb       Mar Apr       May Jun       Jul       Aug Sep       Oct Nov Dec        Total
Incident
Carbon Monoxide         13        10        4       2     5       7         6     4       5    11   7       14       88
Problems

Structure/                  3         1     0       1     0       1         2     0       2     1   0       0        11
Building Fires
Vehicle/ Boat Fires         0         1     0       1     1       0         0     0       0     0   0       0            3

Natural Gas Leaks           8         7     2       3     4       7         7     4       1     4   9       6        62
Response
Bomb Scare                  0         0     0       0     1       0         0     0       0     0   0       0         1
Mutual Aid                  2         1     0       0     1       1         0     4       1     0   2       2        14
Response




                                                          155
                           MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Electrical            5    1    3    7    7     4    4    5     4    2    8        7     57
Problems
Alarm System          6    3    4    9    7     13   18   19    23   15   6       14    146
Malfunction
False Alarms          14   19   21   15   15    19   15   21    10   14   16      15    195
Lockouts/ Lock-       3    4    5    6    2     2    5    6     5    5    4       10     57
ins
Outside Fires         0    0    1    1    0     1    0    2     1    0    0        0     6
Rescue/Medical        86   75   79   93   94   116 112 106     113   91   98     105   1170
Responses

Water/Ice Rescue      1    0    0    0    0     0    2    1     1    0    1        0     6

Motor Vehicle         10   7    13   9    8     13   11   8     7    4    10       9    110
Accidents
Severe Weather        0    0    0    1    0     0    0    0     0    0    0        1     2
Responses
Good Intent Call       4   5    4    4    2     4    4    5     7    7    8        5     59

Public Service Call   13   9    16   18   10    11   17   13    16   18   19      13    174

Hazmat Response       4    2    1    3    5     3    3    3     1    2    0        1     28

Assist Police         5    4    2    0    7     4    3    2     3    1    1        1     33

Smoke Scare            8    4    2    5    7     4    8    4     5    7    2       8     64
Other Hazardous       10   13   4    6    5     6    15   8     2    19   14       8    110
Conditions
                                                                               TOTAL   2396




                                          156
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                      APPARATUS
   Engine 1          2006 -- 1500 G.P.M. Pierce Pumper
   Engine 2          1998 -- 1500 G.P.M. Seagrave Pumper
   Engine 3          1989 -- 1250 G.P.M. Mack Pumper
   Ladder 1          1997 -- 75 Ft. KME Aerial Ladder-Quint
   C1                2006 -- Ford Explorer (Chief's Vehicle)
   C2                2010-- Ford Escape (Fire Prevention)
   C3                2002 -- Ford F250 Pickup Truck
   Rescue Boat       2001 -- 14 Ft. Zodiac with Outboard

                 FIRE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL
PROMOTIONS
Chief Jason R. Gilliland                                       February 1, 2009
Captain Scott R. Murray                                        February 1, 2009
Captain Daniel A. Rice                                          January 4, 2009
Lieutenant Adam J. Hatfield                                       June 21, 2009
Lieutenant Gregg M. McLaughlin                                    June 21, 2009
Lieutenant Thomas G. Rice                                         June 21, 2009
APPOINTMENTS
Full Time Firefighter Patrick B. Attridge                      January 4, 2009
Full Time Firefighter Steven L. Bivens                          January 4, 2009
Reserve Firefighter Robert L. McKay                             March 22, 2009
Full Time Firefighter Matthew I. Patterson                        July 19, 2009
RETIREMENTS
Chief Barry C. Dixey                                           February 5, 2009
Captain Richard H. Bartlett                                    January 24, 2009
RESIGNED
Lieutenant Joseph W. Jurasek, Jr.                              January 10, 2009
Firefighter Michael L. Church                                     June 19, 2009




                                    157
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                        DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL
                              CHIEF
                         Jason R. Gilliland
                FIRE PREVENTION CAPTAIN
                         Michael A. Porter
                            CAPTAINS
  Walter F. Conrad, Jr.           Daniel A. Rice
  Scott R. Murray                 Elizabeth A. Wilson
                         LIEUTENANTS
  Charles P. Cerrutti          Gregg M. McLaughlin
  Adam J. Hatfield             Thomas G. Rice
                       FIREFIGHTERS
  Patrick B. Attridge         Karl P. Lemieux
  A
  Mark P. Barcamonte          John Lequin, Jr.
  A
  Steven  L. Bivens           Gregory T. Lydon
  Arthur H. Boardway          Scott T. Martin
  Ronald N. Borden            Robert L. McKay
  Mark S. Borowski            Frank T. Monahan
  Richard C. Cutting          Charles W. Morgan
  Rick R. DiGiammarino        Matthew I. Patterson
  Timothy J. Doane            Eric M. Ridge
  Mark F. Fader               Matthew J. Serratore
  Grant W. Glavin             Brendan J. Sheehan
  Jeffrey K. Greenberg        Charles W. Sprague
  Martin T. Hines             Eric Z. Thibodeau
  James M. Horgan             Joseph M. Thibodeau
  Douglas B. Knowles          Matthew J. Tina
                          John G. Tobey
ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK             DEPARTMENT CHAPLAIN
  Mary E. Levine                 Reverend Dennis Calhoun




                                    158
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                                Fire Prevention

                Fire Prevention is Everyone’s Responsibility!
  Through education and action we can teach ourselves and our children how to
                     prevent the devastating effects of fire.

The main objective of the Marblehead Fire Prevention Bureau is the protection of
life and property through the prevention of fire. This is accomplished by the
elimination of hazards through effective code enforcement and public education of
fire and life safety principles.

The Fire Prevention Officer works in conjunction with the Building Department to
ensure that new construction and any renovations of existing structures meet the
minimum fire safety requirements. They also perform annual inspections of every
establishment that holds a license to serve alcohol.

Company Inspections ~ In-service fire companies made approximately 650 fire
and life safety inspections during 2009. This year we started a new system that
utilizes a checklist format. A thorough checklist was created that examines
everything from access and egress of the building right through the maintenance of
building safety systems. A new violation form was also created to coincide with the
checklist. Any violations were ordered corrected with an inspection follow-up date
noted on the violation form. These inspections included public buildings, offices,
mercantile buildings and multi-family structures with three or more units. The In-
service inspections accomplish several objectives; the fire crews become familiar
with the building layout and they can reduce the loss of life and property by
identifying fire and life safety violations.

            Our goal is to make Marblehead a fire safe community!

Fire Prevention Open House ~ The Fire Department hosted its annual Fire
Prevention Open House during the national fire prevention month in October. Once
again, we worked diligently to secure the use of the Department of Fire Services -
Sprinkler/SAFE House Trailer because of its continued popularity and
effectiveness. The trailer allows us to provide “live fire” demonstrations showing
the effectiveness of a single sprinkler head activation. The trailer also serves as a
SAFE house filled with props which demonstrate how to avoid common household
fire hazards.




                                        159
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




E.D.I.T.H. or (Exit Drills In The Home) was presented to teach ALL family
members that they can survive a fire in their home if they plan and practice their
escape. Thank you to Papa Gino’s for providing complimentary pizza to all
participants and thank you to all the firefighters that assisted with this worthwhile
annual event.

2009 Results by the numbers:

•   981 General inspections of property and buildings
•   62 Complaints investigated and conditions corrected
•   73 Inspection follow ups
•   0 Blasting complaints
•   82 Sets of plans reviewed
•   261 Residential sale of property inspections
•   186 Miscellaneous calls made by the Fire Prevention Officer, which included
    fire drills, development of fire and life safety plans, evacuation plans, lectures
    on fire safety, inspector meetings and hands on demonstrations.

    THE FOLLOWING PERMITS WERE ISSUED BY THIS BUREAU:

        Fire Alarm Boxes                                            37
        Fire Reports                                                14
        Fuel Permit                                                 02
        Oil Burner                                                  37
        Tank Removal                                               124
        Tank Storage                                                57
        Blasting                                                    02
        L. P. Gas                                                   15
        Dumpster                                                    88
        Sprinkler                                                   13
        Welding and Cutting                                         07
        Flammable Storage                                           03
        Tent                                                        00
        Tank Truck Storage                                          06
        Demo                                                        01
        Smokeless Powder                                            00
        Black Powder                                                01
        Tar Kettle                                                  00
        SMOKE DETECTORS
        Residential Sale of Property                               261




                                        160
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




        Residential New Construction                               00
        Residential New Construction                               89
        Remodel Commercial                                         00
        Commercial New                                             00
        TOTAL PERMITS                                             699

The Fire Prevention Officer attends all Massachusetts Fire Prevention Association
and the Essex County Fire Chief’s Association - Fire Prevention Division meetings
to keep up to date with any new regulations or any changes to the present ones.

Remember Fire Prevention is Everyone’s Responsibility!

Respectfully submitted,


Captain Michael A. Porter
Fire Prevention Officer

S.A.F.E.
The following is a report from the Marblehead Fire Department Student Awareness
Fire Education (S.A.F.E.) Program for the year 2009.
The program is made possible by a grant from the Office of Public Education. The
goal of this program is to conduct fire and life safety education programs within the
town of Marblehead using trained Firefighters as educators.
For the past thirteen years we have conducted a comprehensive six-week Fire and
Life Safety Program with all Marblehead Public School First and Third grade
students. The program covers subjects such as Stop, Drop and Roll! Home Escape
Plans, Get Out and Stay Out and much more. It has been a continued success again
this year.
Firefighter James Horgan started a brand new program at the Village School,
Marblehead Charter School and the Tower School. Firefighter Horgan, using an
open forum and his training as a certified Fire and Life Safety Instructor, discussed
personal fire safety awareness and life safety with over 200 students. Our goal with
this program is to make the Marblehead Fire Department more than just a town
department. We want to be a partner with our community and we believe that
beginning life safety education early in a student’s career makes our community a
safer place to live.




                                        161
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




We continued our program for graduating High School Seniors regarding college
dormitory fire and life safety. Additionally a fire/life safety seminar was conducted
in conjunction with the Housing Authority again this year. Captain Porter did the
honors and we are always pleasantly surprised by the residents, their comments and
questions.
Fire Prevention Week is the second week in October and the Marblehead Fire
Department along with the SAFE Program had its annual Open House. Over 200
visitors came by to meet our Firefighters and to learn about what we do and the
equipment we use. Captain Porter arranged for the Department of Fire Services
“Home Sprinkler Demonstration Trailer.” It turned out to be a huge hit with both
children and adults again this year. I would like to thank all of the Firefighters who
helped set up and man all of the demonstrations.
I would like to thank the following educators who work so hard towards the
betterment of our program: Firefighter Greg Lydon for doing such a great job with
the First Graders; Firefighter James Horgan for working so well with the third
graders and investing so much time in his new program; and Captain Mike Porter
for helping us move in the right direction and facilitating some of our more “non-
traditional” ideas. A very special thanks to the entire Marblehead Fire Department;
without their support, a lot of our programs would not be possible.
Thank you to all of the children for being so wonderful and to their teachers for
allowing us into the classrooms.


Respectfully Submitted,

Firefighter Brendan Sheehan
SAFE Coordinator


Training Report

The Training Division serves to provide training resources to assist officers and
firefighters in improving operations by maintaining a high level of proficiency,
efficiency, and readiness; with a goal of preventing accidents, injuries and
occupational illness.

The mission of the Training Division is to maintain and provide quality training and
service, with safety for our firefighters and citizens being the highest priority.




                                        162
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




The Training Division coordinates all in-house training by developing a monthly
training calendar based on identified training needs and mandated training topics.
The department’s officers are responsible for conducting regular drills and
classroom training on their respective shifts. Outside agencies and independent
instructors provide additional knowledge and skills in areas that require specialized
training.

This year marked a change in the training division for the department. The training
division has been expanded to include three members. Lieutenant Charles Cerrutti
will head the division with firefighters Eric Ridge and Matthew Serratore assisting.
This will provide the department with better continuity between groups and increase
efficiency. The training division would like to thank Chief Jason Gilliland for his
tireless commitment to safe, proactive training and the continued education of the
Marblehead Fire Department. Chief Gilliland set the standard on how training
should be conducted.

All newly appointed firefighters are required to complete the twelve-week recruit
training program at the Massachusetts Firefighting Academy located in Stow,
Massachusetts. This past year firefighters Patrick Attridge, Steven Bivens and
Robert McKay graduated from the recruit training program. Upon the completion
of the recruit training, firefighters Attridge, Bivens and McKay obtained State and
Pro Board certification as Firefighter I/II.

In 2009, the Town of Marblehead and the Marblehead Fire Department hosted
firefighters from across the state for training in Fire Pumps and Hydraulics and
Surface Ice Rescue. All Marblehead firefighters have also completed the statewide
training initiative for Rapid Intervention Team (R.I.T.).

The training the division would like to recognize and thank those individuals and
departments that have assisted us:
    • Abbot Public Library for the use of their conference room
    • Daniel Scanlon from Atlantic Ambulance Service for his continued
         emergency medical training
    • The Harbormaster’s Office for cross training members in boat operations
    • Bill’s Towing for supplying and removing the vehicles we used in training

A special thanks to the Hart and Finn-Elder families for the donation of their
properties. The department used these properties to conduct search and rescue,
ventilation and roof top operations training.




                                        163
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Respectfully,


Lieutenant Charles P. Cerrutti
The Training Division

Emergency Management
The Emergency Management Agency prepares for natural and manmade disasters.
The Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) serves as the local
branch of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).

Massachusetts Emergency Management Company operates from their headquarters
in Framingham and communicates with local emergency management agency’s via
radio, fax, internet, and telephone.

Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency and the Council of Massachusetts
United Ways continue to promote Mass “211” as the Commonwealth’s primary
telephone information call center number during times of crisis. The easy to
remember “211” is utilized as a 24 hour 7 days a week resource for human services
and public safety disaster response. It was designed to reduce the number of non-
emergency calls to 911 centers.

Marblehead’s Emergency Management received a new “POD” policy by
FEMA/MEMA that would bring commodities like food and water into the town in
the event of a large-scale disaster. The POD’s would be strategically placed
offering drive up service to residents. There are three sizes of deployment, the
largest being capable of providing for 20,000 people per day.

Marblehead Emergency Management obtained an emergency management
performance grant. This grant will be used for updating, maintaining and reviewing
Marblehead’s “Comprehensive Emergency Preparedness Plan.”

Emergency preparedness is the first crucial step in facing an unexpected crisis.
Marblehead residents are encouraged to develop a home/family preparedness plan.
To learn more about planning, please visit the Federal Emergency website:
http://www.ready.gov/.




                                      164
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




I would like to thank all department heads and town employees who have provided
service and support.

Respectfully,


Charles Cerrutti
Emergency Management Director




                                     165
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




            FORT SEWALL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE

The Fort Sewall Oversight Committee is a group appointed by the Board of
Selectmen and comprised of the following: Larry Sands – Glover’s Marblehead
Regiment, Chairman; Judy Anderson – Marblehead Museum and Historical Society;
Joyce Booth – Marblehead Historical Commission; Brenda Arnold – Old
Marblehead Improvement Association; Lloyd Caswell – Selectmen’s Advisory
Committee on Disabilities;; Julia Bantly – Old and Historic Districts Commission
Ed Lang – At large member; Phil Norcross – At large member and Thomas Hamond
– At large member. Rebecca Curran, Town Planner and Brendan Egan, Recreation
and Park Department are both ex-officio members.

Several improvements were completed at the Fort in 2009. The chain link fence
above the fort was replaced with a steel picket fence. The hillside at the left of the
fort was re-graded to stem erosion, the mound at the top of the fort was repaired and
new barrier plantings were established throughout the fort. The area in front of the
restrooms was regraded to improve drainage and new plantings were placed. The
Marblehead Family Fund donated a telescope which was installed at the top of the
fort to enhance the visitor experience.

On Memorial Day weekend we held the second annual Fort Sewall Clean-Up Day
which was co-sponsored by the Old Marblehead Improvement Association. This
effort was a great success with 12 volunteers helping stain the benches! A new
memorial plaque commemorating General Casimir Pulaski was donated by the
Polish Cultural Foundation and was installed and dedicated in October. The
completion of Phase 1 improvements to the fort was celebrated at the dedication of
the Memorial Benches. A few hundred community members joined the Fort Sewall
Oversight Committee to mark the occasion on a beautiful fall day.

In 2010 the committee plans to consider Phase 2 enhancements. Another Clean-Up
Day is being co-sponsored by the Old Marblehead Improvement Association and
plans are underway to raise funds for a plaque honoring General John Glover, with
a ceremony to be held during the summer of 2010.

It is with regret that we accepted the resignations of members Julia Bantly and
Maureen McKinnon Tucker. We thank them for their contributions during their
time on the committee.

Respectfully submitted,
Larry Sands, Chairman




                                        166
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                       HARBORS AND WATERS

The Harbor and Waters Board is pleased to submit its annual report for the period
ending December 31, 2009.

At May 2008 Town Meeting, residents overwhelming approved the funds for the
construction of a pier as well as landside improvements at the end of Stramski Way.
The funds will be spent from the Harbor & Waters receipts.

An Order of Conditions for the construction of the Stramski Pier Project as well as
landside improvements was approved by the Marblehead Conservation
Commission. The Stramski Pier project is currently on hold pending the outcome of
an appeal to the Department of Environmental Protection, filed by concerned
residents.

In December 2009 The Department of Environmental protection issued a
Superseding Order of Conditions approving the project. Again concerned area
residents appealed the D.E.P. ruling. The D.E.P. scheduled a Prescreening Hearing
for January 19, 2010. Prior to the hearing date the appeal was settled and
withdrawn. It is the Harbor & Waters Board plan to have the pier built and in
service for the 2011 boating season.

The visiting yacht facility located at The Harbormasters Quarters at Tuckers Wharf
was very quiet with fewer yachts visiting Marblehead this season

From June thru mid October the Marine Sanitation Pumpout Boat operated Monday
thru Fridays. The land based Marine sanitation pumpout facility at Cliff Street is
available seven days a week twenty four hours a day. The Harbormaster encourages
all boaters to utilize this free service.

The Harbormaster’s patrol staff responded to various calls and rendered such aid
as, towing disabled vessels, dewatering vessels, providing medical assistance,
conducting search and rescue for overdue vessels, investigated fuel and oil spills,
removed various hazards to navigation

The Harbor & Waters Board wish to extend their appreciation to Eliot Rothwell
who resigned his board position.

Spencer Moore was appointed an alternate to the Harbor and Waters Board




                                       167
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Special events patrolled;
July 4, 2009 Fireworks
July 5, 2009 The Marblehead to Halifax N.S. race
August 1, The Great Race, sponsored by the Rotary Club of Marblehead.

The Harbors and Waters Board extends its gratitude to The Board of Selectmen, as
well as all the Town Departments and their employees that provide service and
support to the Harbormasters operations.

Respectfully submitted
Charles J .Dalferro
Harbormaster

Harbor and Waters Board Members
Gary P .Gregory, Chairman
John Doub               William Pattison
Paul Williams           Jay Michaud

Alternate members
Kenneth Breen, Paul Stevens, Spencer Moore

Harbormaster Personnel
Charles J. Dalferro       Harbormaster
Fred Webb Russell III     Assistant Harbormaster
Daniel Roads              Assistant Harbormaster
Sandra Carney             Office Manager

Seasonal Assistants
Ray Gauthier                   John Vigneron        Frank MacIver
Thomas Murray                  John Payne
Jeff Flynn                     Carlo Fratini

To view the Manual for Marblehead Waters as well as other harbor related
information visit our web page at www.Marblehead.org/Harbors




                                      168
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




               MARBLEHEAD CULTURAL COUNCIL


The Marblehead Cultural Council gave out $4600 in grant money for 17 different
programs. 2 grant requests were denied. Below is a brief summary of the grants that
were approved.

    1.   Richard Clark in conjunction with the Council on Aging received funding
         for a theatrical presentation of Mark Twain's life and works.
    2.   Council on Aging received funding for a program called Drawing for
         Seniors. Seniors will learn to express themselves through drawing while
         developing their perception and confidence. They will become familiar
         with drawing concepts that will help them to have the ability to see in new
         ways so that they will be able to draw in a more realistic manner.
    3.   Dick Buckley received funding for Evolution '09. This will be a 2 day
         outdoor exhibit by 14 award winning artists and include performances by
         eight singer songwriters. All art will be offered for sale with no mark-ups
         added or commissions taken.
    4.   Edward Cope Jr. received funding for Reading is Magic. This program is a
         45 minute interactive magic performance emphasizing the value of
         reading. Using many volunteers we perform feats of magic that are often
         found in children's magic books.
    5.   The Delvena Theatre Company received funding for an interactive
         edutainment production relating to the infamous Fall River native, Lizzie
         Borden, who was tried for the ax murders of her parents. The story will be
         portrayed and the audience will have the opportunity to participate by way
         of a mock trial with the ability to question the defendant and then vote on
         her guilt or innocence.
    6.   The Veterans For Peace Annual Peace Poetry Contest, sponsored by VFP
         members of the North Shore communities of MA, received funding. For
         the tenth consecutive year this program will be offered to all North Shore
         writers, student poets and friends of VFP. Winners are declared in
         Kindergarten through high school grades and adult categories. Marblehead
         Community
    7.   Richard Hamelin received funding. This program's uniqueness is how he
         throws the same form but that piece of clay magically transforms in stages,
         until it is finished and identified as: melon pots, Lebanese samovars,
         teapots, gnomes, dragons, bowls and chickens, etc. He discuss techniques,
         regional and national pottery history and rare stories about clay, potters and
         pots.




                                         169
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




8.  Tim Van Egmond’s family program received funding for a collection of
    multicultural folk tales and songs promoting awareness about the maritime
    environment and especially whales, in keeping with the Library's Summer
    reading Program theme. Stories will include "Glooskap and the Whale," a
    Micmac legend explaining why whales spout, and "The Gift of the Whale,"
    an Inuit-Inupaiq legend about hunting the Bowhead whale. He’ll play
    guitar, hammered and mountain dulcimers, and limberjack (a wooden
    puppet that taps out a rhythm dancing on a paddle).
9. Old North Festival Chorus Concert with singers and musicians received
    funding. This is the 28th year for this event.
10. Students in grade 5 at MCCPS will participate in a "living history"
    program. Educator/artist, Jan Turnquist, will portray Phebe Emerson, the
    wife of the minister of Concord, MA in 1775. Mrs. Emerson will recreate
    history as witness to the famous battle that took place on April 19, 1775 -
    the fateful day when the Redcoats marched into Concord from Lexington.
    Phebe brings a fresh perspective to this historical event, discusses how the
    townspeople felt about the American Revolution, and reviews the events
    leading up to it. The granddaughter of Ralph Waldo Emerson, Phebe gives
    students a sense of daily life in Colonial American, and provides an
    informational foundation for understanding the "flowering of New
    England" during the 19th century.
11. The Legends School Program will give a one-week, arts-in-education
    residency to the Cohen Hillel School 5th grade. This will be the 5th year
    Cohen Hillel School will host Legends. LSP is am educational arts
    program created by Carl Thomsen in 1997 in partnership with Cape Ann
    Historical Society and Gloucester Public Schools. The program: (1)
    teaches local, regional and national history to students int he form of
    dance, music, art and creative writing. (2) brings students in direct contact
    with the people, places, events, works of art, artifacts, etc. and (3) produces
    a public performance, exhibit and reading of the students' work for the
    school and parents. Senior Moment Tap & Dance Group - Tap dance
    classes specifically designed for seniors.
12. Each year, the North Shore Dance Alliance sponsors a Young Dancers
    Showcase to foster the gifts of young dancers. The Showcase includes a
    master class open to the interested members of the community, a master
    class for the young performers and the culminating event in which young
    dancers from different area studios perform for one another and for their
    families and friends.
13. In Rhythm with the Seasons is a special event to celebrate community and
    local agricultural together at community Farmer's Markets. Participants




                                    170
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




    will share the joy of rhythm with Ellen Clegg during this rhythm event.
    From buckets and watering cans to drums, gourd shakers and cowbells, we
    will create our own community rhythm jam as we celebrate, inspire and
    enliven our community and local marketplace.
14. The Marblehead Art Association is building on the success of the
    2007/2008 Lecture Series by presenting a diverse group of educational
    events this fall. Four programs are planned: "An Evening with Robert
    Frost" with Stephen Collins on 10/18; "America's First Look at China"
    with Bruce MacLaren, Assoc. Curator of Chinese Art at the PEM on 10/19;
    "Preservation and Progress: Recent Work by Ann Beha Architects" with
    Phillip Chen on 11/16; and "Arias in the Afternoon" with 3 sopranos from
    the New England Conservatory on 12/14.
15. Follow Hymn Ministries received funding. A Meeting of the Minds is a
    multicultural, educational, musical theater project. A musical history
    lesson based on the struggle for Civil Rights in America, with a tribute to
    Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. This original, creative multimedia
    piece composed by local musician and teacher John DiTomaso cast
    includes student actors, choir, live music from a student orchestra and
    professional musicians along with cutting edge digital sampling. Target
    audience includes, but is not limited to, secondary school students,
    residents of Marblehead, Lynn, Danvers and the general public. Project
    will be executed via auditions and rehearsals,
16. Alastair Moock will present a Music: Theory and practice to the
    Marblehead High School music students. This is in conjunction with the
    music teacher. This will be a 90 minute presentation that will cover music
    theory and the life of a traveling musician. Alastair (a professional folk
    musician) will also play his guitar and give a mini concert to the students.
    All of the music students will receive free admission to Alastair's concert
    that night at the me and thee coffee house which is hosted at the UU
    Church of Marblehead. He will be playing with Jennifer Kimball, Tim
    Gearan an Rose Polezani. The evening is called the Boston Tea Party.
17. Buck Expeditions' Explorers Program brings expedition leader Phil Buck
    into the classroom or public venue with a multimedia presentation about
    his explorations. MA native, biologist/explorer Phil Buck is preparing for
    a 3rd ocean voyage, a 7,000 mile journey from Boston to Egypt aboard a
    primitive reed ship to be hand-built by ancient methods. Integral to all of
    Phil's expeditions is his outreach to students and adults of all ages, to share
    with them the wisdom learned through exploration of the unknown, and the
    lessons learned from pursuing dreams. In his presentation, Phil will




                                    171
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




        preview the planned 2010 Boston to Egypt voyage, and feature his other
        expeditions.

Members of the council this year were Phyllis McCarthy, Walter Horan, Marshall
Harris, Betsy Morris, Joanne Johnston, Joan Hollister and Georgia Murray.

Respectfully submitted by,



Ava Lawrence
Chair, Marblehead Cultural Council




                                     172
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




          MARBLEHEAD HISTORICAL COMMISSION

The goal of the Marblehead Historical Commission is to protect, preserve and
develop the assets of the Town of Marblehead set forth by State Statue of the
Massachusetts General Law, Chapter 40, Section 8d.

The Commission has room in Abbot Hall to display and store historic artifacts,
maintain a Maritime Room, a gift shop and office space for research and cataloging
items in the collection. The office on the second floor of Abbot Hall was open from
9:00 am – 11:30 am and 12:30 pm – 2:30 pm daily. The Commission has monthly
meetings on the 4th Tuesday of the month at 10:00 am and the public is invited to
attend.

The gift shop is managed by Gail Gray and is staffed by volunteers. The Maritime
Room is also staffed by volunteers. It is open during the tourist season and for the
Arts Festival and Christmas Walk. Both rooms will be open for visitors in the
spring.

In 2009 we accomplished the following:

    1.  New cabinets were built and installed for the ship models in the Maritime
        Room. They were paid for from the Dr. Raymond Cole Fund.
    2. The Abbot Hall and MHC sign on Washington Street was replaced.
    3. Renovations to the four entry doors on the south facing doors were
        completed, using funds from the Shattuck Fund.
    4. The lower level stained glass windows were restored and reinstalled with
        funds from the Shattuck Fund.
    5. A bronze plaque was purchased and installed at the Dedication of Pedrick’s
        Wharf in September.
    6. The digitizing of the color slides (Bowd Osborne Collection) began in late
        fall and should be completed by early spring.
    7. We purchased new window shades for the G.A.R. rooms in the Old Town
        House.
    8. Abbot Hall tower/attic windows were replaced with funds from the
        Shattuck Fund.
    9. Dr. Raymond Cole submitted his resignation from the Board in June after
        serving many years – first as an alternate in 1980 and a full member since
        1982.
    10. We welcomed our new member, Harry C. Christensen, Jr. in August.




                                       173
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




The same volunteers have continued with cataloging the collection.   They are
Wayne Butler, Chris Johnston, Eleanor Rhoades and Richard Case.

Respectfully submitted,

Wayne T. Butler, Chairman

William E. Conly
Paul “Chris” Johnston
Nancy Graves
Joyce Booth
Donald Gardner
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.

Eleanor Rhoades
Secretary




                                    174
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




             MARBLEHEAD HOUSING AUTHORITY


The Marblehead Housing Authority is pleased to submit our annual report for the
year ending December 31, 2009.

The Marblehead Housing Authority is “a public body politic and corporate”
authorized by State Law and regulated by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
(Department of Housing and Community Development).

The Board of Commissioners consists of four members elected by the Town, and
one member appointed by the Governor. All members of the Board serve a 5 year
term. In May, Pamela Foye was elected to the Board, replacing Pamela Basso, who
did not seek re-election after serving on the Board for 10 years.

The Board meets regularly on the third Tuesday of each month and conducts its
Annual Meeting and election of officers every June.

The Board of Commissioners contract with an Executive Director who administers
the day-to-day operation of the Agency.

The Marblehead Housing Authority administers 3 housing programs designed to
provide the Town with decent, safe, and affordable housing. The Authority
currently owns and operates 307 units of state-assisted conventional housing, as
follows:

                       1 bedroom     2 bedroom        3 bedroom         Total
Family Housing:
Barnard Hawkes Ct          N/A             12              10            22
Broughton Road             N/A             33              21            54
New Broughton Road         N/A             4               4             8
Elderly Housing
Powder House Court         38              N/A            N/A             38
Green Street Court          32             N/A            N/A             32
Farrell Court              64              N/A            N/A            64
New Farrell Court           48             N/A            N/A             48
Roads School                41             N/A            N/A             41
TOTAL                      223              49             35            307




                                     175
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




The Marblehead Housing Authority receives no funding from the Town of
Marblehead.

Funding for all programs is received through the Department of Housing and
Community Development (DHCD). Although the Marblehead Housing Authority is
eligible for subsidy under its contributions contract with the DHCD, at the present
time the overall income from rents is in excess of the allowable expense level, and
therefore the Authority does not receive a subsidy.

Eligibility

The Net Income Limits for determining admission to state-aided housing are as
follows:

                 No. in Household:                Net Income Limit:
                     1 person                          $46,300
                     2 people                          $52,950
                     3 people                          $59,550
                     4 people                          $66,150
                     5 people                          $71,450
                     6 people                          $76,750
                     7 people                          $82,050
                     8 people                          $87,350


Assets: There is no longer any asset limit in any of the Authority’s programs. The
current HUD determined interest rate, or actual interest earned on assets, is included
as income.

Local preference is given to eligible applicants who live or work in the town of
Marblehead.

   Veteran’s Preference is given for family housing and to elderly local
                                applicants.




                                        176
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




  SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
The Authority is pleased to highlight our housing programs, and we are proud of the
services we provide to the households who rely on our help for affordable housing.

In 2009, the Marblehead Housing Authority once again received an “Acceptable”
management rating from the Massachusetts Department of Housing & Community
Development. According to DHCD, this rating indicates “consistent and solid
regulatory compliance, sound administrative, maintenance, and fiscal management
practices, as well as continued success in promoting and/ or improving programs
within the local community.”
.
The Auditor of the Commonwealth performed a 30-month audit of the Authority’s
programs for the period January, 1, 2007 through June 30, 2009, and issued a report
indicating that the Authority “has maintained good management controls over its
operations and complied with all applicable laws, rules and regulations.

The Authority received an “Outstanding Agency Award” from the Massachusetts
Chapter of the National Association of Housing & Redevelopment Organizations
(NAHRO), in the area of Resident Service, for the development and implementation
of a “Fall Prevention Program” for the residents of its elderly housing program.

In 2009, the Authority continued to focus on improving the systems and facilities, to
the best of our ability, given fiscal constraints. All of the capital improvements
done in 2009 were funded through the Authority’s operating reserve.

                      CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
Water Heater Replacement: Water heaters were replaced at the Roads School,
which has 40 units of elderly housing.

Roof Replacement: Roofs were replaced on two buildings at our Barnard Hawkes
Court family housing complex, and on two buildings at our Broughton Road family
housing development.

Sink Replacement: Due to age and the inability to locate replacement parts, the
Authority completed a sink replacement project at our Farrell Court elderly housing
complex.

Hallway Painting: All of the hallways at Farrell Court (16 hallways) were painted.




                                        177
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Community Room Expansion: The Authority contracted with an architect to assist
us in preparing design and bid documents to expand the community room at Farrell
Court. This project will provide additional space to be used to expand the programs
offered to the residents at this complex.

General: Numerous other capital improvement projects were completed during the
year, including the replacement of appliances (stoves and refrigerators), mechanical
upgrades to heat and hot water systems, roof repairs, gutter repairs, new flooring,
carpeting, and plumbing repairs were done throughout our complexes. A new van
was purchased for the maintenance department replacing one which was fifteen (15)
years old.

                      PROGRAM MANAGEMENT

Rent

Residents of elderly housing pay 30% of their adjusted gross income for rent, which
includes all utilities: heat, hot water, electricity and gas. Residents of elderly
housing have on-site laundry facilities at each complex. All residents have 24-hour
on-call maintenance. The average rent paid this year by an elderly resident was
$363.00. The lowest rent paid this year was $5.00 and the highest rent paid was
$1071.00.

Family residents pay 27% of their adjusted income toward rent, and pay for their
own utilities. Family residents are also given an annual heat allowance of $500.00
(two bedroom unit) or $600.00 (three bedroom unit). The average rent paid by a
family this year was $438.00. The lowest rent paid by a family was $46.00 and the
highest rent paid was $1600.00.

State Regulations require the Authority to process an annual Rent Recertification of
every household, to determine continued eligibility. In addition, the Authority is
required to recertify rent any time there is a change in household income. In 2009,
the Authority processed 385 rent re-certifications, including 293 annual re-
certifications and 92 interim rent changes.

Applications for Admission/Occupancy Statistics

In 2009, the Authority continued to see a significant increase in the number of
applicants for housing, including many requesting emergency placement.




                                       178
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




In our elderly housing program, the Authority received 92 applications for elderly
housing during 2009, including 18 applicants that were disabled and under the age
of 60.

The Authority performed a waiting list update of this program in 2009, to determine
if all applicants were still interested and eligible for housing. There were 67
applicants on the waiting list for elderly housing, including 45 young disabled
applicants, as of December 31, 2009..

There were 21 vacancies in elderly housing in 2009. Of those vacancies, 4 residents
entered a nursing home, and 2 moved in with family.

The average age of a resident in elderly housing is 76 years.

There are 18 residents over the age of 90, including 4 residents age 95 or older. Our
oldest resident is age 97.

In accordance with State guidelines, 13.5% of the units are occupied by disabled
residents under the age of 60.

As of the year-end, there were 194 families on the waiting list. This represents an
increase of 40% from last year.

During 2009, 8 families moved from family housing: 3 families moved to private
housing, and 2 families purchased a home. In addition, 3 families were transferred
within the Authority due to being either under-housed or over-housed.

Of the 82 units of family housing occupied at year-end, there were 72 single-parent
households, and ten two-parent households.

There are 105 children under the age of 18 living in the family housing
developments.

In total, four hundred and sixty people reside in our housing complexes.




                                        179
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Maintenance

The Maintenance Department services all of our housing complexes, ensures that
the buildings are safe, responds to routine calls and emergencies situations, and
maintains the landscaping and snow removal at each development.

In 2009, the maintenance staff completed 971 work orders, including resident
requests, inspection findings and site work. The Department also performed the
work necessary in 29 vacant units (21 elderly, and 8 family units).

There were 371 unit inspections completed this year. These included an annual
inspection of every apartment, 27 move-in inspections, 26 move-out inspections,
and 20 interim inspections.

Staff Development / Employee Training

The Authority continued its commitment to staff development in 2009. Staff
attended trainings, workshops, and certification programs in the areas of capital
planning, computer training, lead-based paint notification compliance training,
detecting tenant and applicant fraud, compulsive hoarding issues, the use of
criminal offender record information in tenant selection matters, and developing a
comprehensive maintenance and modernization program.

Services to Residents

The Authority continued our support of resident programs this year, and two new
programs were initiated in 2009.

Recognizing that many of the families in our housing program often face challenges
resulting from domestic violence, job loss, health concerns, financial problems and
homelessness through no fault of their own, the Authority developed a “Resource
Guide for Families” in 2009. This Guide was designed to provide contact
information to families in need of services, and to assist them in locating the
services that may be available to them. The information and resources contained in
this Guide are primarily available through state and governmental agencies and non-
profit organizations, providing assistance to low income families and children. This
Guide will also assist MHA staff in directing residents and applicants to the
appropriate agency for help.




                                       180
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




A four part program entitled “The Jazz Decades” was offered to all residents this
year. Each session was presented by Jeff Stout, a Berklee College of Music
Professor and Musician, who is also a Marblehead resident. Jeff has played with
the great Buddy Rich Band, Mel Torme, Rosemary Clooney, Tony Bennett, Natalie
Cole and many more. The program included the music of the 1920’s, 1930’s,
1940’s, and 1950’s, including music from the roaring twenties, the Big Band Era,
Swing and Modern Jazz. Jeff shared his knowledge of jazz history, played the
trumpet, and music of the decades. There was group participation, recalling the
lyrics and music of the great American songbook and the great composers of our
time, sing-a-longs, and dancing.

Communication with our residents remains a top priority. The Authority distributes
a monthly newsletter to all three hundred and seven (307) households to keep
residents up-to-date on programs and general information.

Several surveys were sent to residents this year, designed to obtain input from
residents regarding a variety of topics. The information obtained from the surveys
was used to improve the programs and services offered by the Authority.

Each month, residents of our elderly housing developments are given the
opportunity to attend a coffee hour and program that provides speakers from a
variety of agencies to present information on services and programs that may be of
interest to them. This year, nine (9) guest speakers participated in this program.

Every new resident is provided with a packet of information called “Making the
Connection,” designed to inform them about the Authority’s policies and
procedures, as well as information about local agencies and programs that may be of
assistance to them.

The Resident Service Coordination Program allows the Authority to identify
residents that may need assistance, and links residents to the community resources
that will enable them to live independently for as long as possible. This year,
twenty-three (23) referrals for services were made, including home making,
transportation, financial assistance, medical assistance and protective services.

The Authority completed its seventh year of a Rent Escrow Program, which
enables eligible households in family housing to transition to unsubsidized housing
options in the private market. Three (3) families participated in this program during
2009.




                                        181
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




The Annual Cookout was held in September. This year, there was a tropical
theme, a hula hoop contest, and live musical entertainment. The Authority is
grateful to the many local businesses that donated food and prizes for this event, and
to the Park and Recreation Department for the use of the tents. The administrative
staff and members of the Board of Commissioners prepared and served the food,
and the maintenance staff set-up, did the grilling, and the clean-up.

Residents also enjoyed our Annual Holiday Party held in December, with live
music, caroling, and a visit from Santa. Once again, local businesses generously
donated gift certificates for the raffle, which is always the highlight of this event.

                       COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES
The Authority continued to effectively partner with other public and private local
entities to maximize community resources for our residents.

The Authority held our 11th Annual Safety Program for residents of elderly
housing, and collaborated with the Marblehead Police and Fire Departments to
present a comprehensive program on fire prevention, fall prevention and personal
safety. The Authority’s “Emergency and Safety Plan”, which is designed to keep
residents and staff as safe as possible during an emergency, was reviewed with
residents. There was a safety trivia contest, refreshments, and door prizes.

The Marblehead Housing Authority Providers Group, consisting of
representatives from local service agencies and community organizations that serve
the needs of the elderly residents in town, continued to meet monthly to share
information, collaboration and outreach.

The Authority holds monthly health clinics, sponsored by the
Marblehead/Swampscott VNA at all of our community rooms, affording residents
an opportunity to have their blood pressure checked on a regular basis, discuss
medical conditions and have questions answered.

The Executive Director is a member of the TRIAD Council, a partnership between
the Essex County Sheriff’s Department, the District Attorney’s Office, the
Marblehead Police Department and the Marblehead Council on Aging. The TRIAD
program develops and implements an effective crime prevention and education
program for elders.




                                        182
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




The Executive Director is past president and current member of the North Shore
Executive Director’s Association (NSHEDA). This group serves 65 housing
authorities north of Boston, and sponsors monthly speakers and programs.

The Housing Authority wishes to thank the current staff, Assistant Director Debra
Larkin, Housing Manager Cynthia Palladino, Administrative Assistant Christine
Levoshko, Office Clerk Danielle Caron, Maintenance Foreman John Bonfanti, and
Maintenance Department staff members Mark Sasso, Christopher Homan, Stephen
Abramo, and Michael Curley, for their dedication and hard work during the past
year.

The Housing Authority also wishes to express its sincere appreciation to the town
departments and the citizens of Marblehead, who have supported and assisted the
Authority in our efforts to provide affordable housing for the residents of
Marblehead.

Respectfully submitted,


Nancy M. Marcoux,
Executive Director

Board of Commissioners:
Richard Whitehill, Chairman
Jean R. Eldridge, Vice Chair
Robert Bryne, Treasurer
Peter Russell, Assistant Treasurer & State Appointee
Pamela Foye, Member




                                       183
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




        METROPOLITAN AREA PLANNING COUNCIL

Beverly, Danvers, Essex, Hamilton, Gloucester, Ipswich, Manchester by the Sea,
Marblehead, Middleton, Nahant, Peabody, Rockport, Salem, Swampscott, Topsfield
and Wenham

During 2009, the North Shore Task Force took part in a variety of activities,
including:

        ¾   Reviewed and offered input into a variety of regional transportation
            programs, including the Transportation Improvement Program, the
            Unified Planning and Work Program and the Regional Transportation
            Plan, as well as opportunities to participate in Transportation Demand
            Management and Suburban Mobility programs.

        ¾   Worked to introduce the newly formed North Shore Transportation
            Management Association as a partner in promoting alternatives to
            single-occupancy car travel. The mission of the North Shore TMA,
            which began in the summer of 2008, is to bring together businesses,
            institutions, developers, organizations and municipalities to address
            shared traffic-related issues. It aims to reduce traffic congestion and
            vehicle emissions while improving access to and within the North
            Shore.

        ¾   Began implementation of the newly adopted MetroFuture Plan by
            helping to identify priority implementation strategies for the North
            Shore and the MAPC region.

        ¾   Partnered with the MA Department of Energy Resources to sponsor
            the North Shore Clean Energy Forum which featured case studies of
            North Shore municipal clean energy actions and information on the
            DOER Green Communities Program.

        ¾   Presented two workshops on sea level rise and climate adaptation in
            conjunction with Salem State College, the MA Department of
            Conservation and Recreation, and MA Coastal Zone Management.
            Participants were able to learn about efforts to map local sea level rise,
            current climate change adaptation initiatives, the FEMA flood hazard
            mapping revisions and responses to sea level rise such as the Storm
            Smart Coasts Program.




                                       184
              MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




¾   Held a state transportation reform information meeting.

¾   Conducted an onsite tour of Avalon Danvers, the award winning
    adaptive reuse of the former Danvers State Hospital property. The
    community includes 433 one, two, and three-bedroom rental
    apartments, in twelve separate buildings. These buildings have been
    constructed in a range of styles, from the smallest two-story direct
    entry building with eight apartment homes, to the traditional three-
    story breezeway stacked-flat building containing 24 apartment homes,
    to the largest center-corridor, elevator-access, mid-rise building
    containing 99 apartment homes.

¾   Partnered with staff from the Merrimack Regional Planning
    Commission and the Massachusetts Bays Program to present methods
    and case studies on meeting peak summer water demand, including the
    use of sustainable landscaping practices.

¾   Identified ongoing North Shore planning and community development
    issues through Community Exchange, in which local planners and
    decision makers share key issues or developments with fellow NSTF
    attendees.

¾   Presented the draft MA Ocean Management Plan to North Shore
    communities and submitted comments on the draft plan.

¾   Worked with MAPC’s North Shore Coalition to present a workshop
    on opportunities on regionalizing municipal services, offering
    examples such as the Arlington, Belmont and Lexington Regional
    Health Project.

¾   Heard monthly updates from the MAPC Legislative Committee and
    offered comments to the Committee on legislation pertinent to North
    Shore communities.




                              185
                 MUNICIPAL LIGHT DEPARTMENT


To the citizens of the Town of Marblehead:

The Marblehead Municipal Light Department is pleased to provide its 115th annual
report and financial statements for the calendar year ending December 31, 2009.

2009 presented a variety of challenges as well as opportunities for the Marblehead
Municipal Light Department. The economic downturn led to difficult circumstances
for many individuals and companies within our community. While many industries
felt the impact of these hard economic times, MMLD was well positioned to
navigate this difficult period and take advantage of declining fossil fuel and
wholesale energy prices and in turn pass those savings on to our customers.

This downward trend in energy prices also provided us with the opportunity to
make forward purchases well into 2011 at reasonable prices thereby helping to
stabilize future power supply costs.

For the second year in a row total energy consumption was down in Marblehead. A
variety of factors contributed to this overall reduction such as mild summer
temperatures, the sluggish economy, and an increased conservation effort by our
customers. Total energy consumption in 2009 was 101,459,386 kilowatt-hours
compared to 103,168,110 kilowatt-hours consumed in 2008. Although energy sales
were down, the hourly peak demand was up slightly at 25,677 kilowatts compared
to 24,417 kilowatts in 2008.

As part of the light department’s 5-year budget and work-plan, work crews
completed a multiyear project in early 2009 called the 1303 project. This project
replaced approximately 30 poles from Lincoln Avenue to West Shore Drive, and
included the replacement of an old 13 kV aerial spacer cable providing firm supply
to the newly refurbished Beacon substation.

While work crews were busy completing the 1303 project, another multiyear project
to replace the existing Commercial substation was well under way. This multi-
million dollar project will completely replace the existing substation equipment
including transformers, switchgear, and underground cables.

The Commercial Street facility, which was originally constructed in 1895, has seen
several upgrades over its history, but this is the first significant upgrade to the
substation equipment since 1960. When completed, this upgrade plan will
significantly increase reliability to our customers, reduce noise, while incorporating
an aesthetic design not typically found in traditional substation projects. The
substation is scheduled to be online by early 2010.

Reliability and security of the nation’s electric infrastructure has always been a top
priority for regulators and utilities, but new requirements issued by the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission have placed new burdens on utilities to formalize
and document these efforts. MMLD has had to develop plans and procedures in
order to comply with many of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation
(NERC) reliability and security standards which are all subject to audit and potential
fines for non compliance.

In September of 2009 MMLD was audited by the Northeast Power Coordinating
Council (NPCC) audit team. The NPCC compliance program is designed to
monitor, assess and enforce compliance of the NERC reliability standards.

Based on the information and documentation provided by MMLD, the audit team
found MMLD to be compliant with all of the applicable requirements and NERC
reliability standards. There were no possible violations found. A public version of
the Compliance Audit Report is available upon request.

In August of 2009 MMLD submitted a comprehensive application to the
Department of Energy (DOE) for participation in the Smart Grid Investment Grant
(SGIG) program. The topic area for the MMLD application was for a town-wide
integrated advanced metering infrastructure system, also known as smart metering,
with a total project cost of $2.7 million. The federal government grant is worth 50%
of the proposal's total or $1.35 million.

MMLD was one of only one hundred companies nation wide selected for
negotiations for an award with the DOE. According to the DOE, the awards amount
to the largest single energy grid modernization investment in the country's history.
The department is currently working with DOE representatives to finalize the plan
including the scope, milestones, timetables and reporting requirements.

As with any federal government interface, the negotiation can be very lengthy.
MMLD anticipates the negotiations will conclude in early 2010 with actual
equipment installations beginning by the fall of 2010.
In 1995, the actual installed cost of the electric plant in service totaled $9,047,488.
By the end of 2009 the actual installed cost totaled $24,524,993, demonstrating the
light department’s commitment to infrastructure improvement. This increased value
of electric plant in service has been accomplished without the need to issue debt.

Net surplus revenue that was returned to the Town to reduce the tax levy in 2009
was $330,000. The ten-year cumulative amount through 2009 totaled $3,425,000.

While we continue to investigate new sources of generation supply, we also
recognize the importance of energy efficiency and demand side management
programs within our community. Our programs provide various rebates when
customers buy certain appliances or programmable thermostats, and also include a
substantial rebate on home insulation. For further information on the light
department’s energy conservation programs please visit our website at
www.marbleheadelectric.com.

Personnel changes for 2009 included the retirement of one long time employee and
the hiring of one new employee. Line Foreman David McKinnon, who had worked
for the light department for 41 years, retired in February. We wish him health,
happiness, and continued success. As a result of Dave’s retirement we hired Kevin
Stone in March to the position of Second Class Lineman, welcome aboard Kevin!

In 2009, the Light Department again received a Safety Award from the American
Public Power Association for the year 2008. For MMLD, this is our 15th
consecutive safety award and our 19th in the last 20 years, an unprecedented record
of which we are extremely proud. We continue to emphasize the importance of
safety in the workplace as well as through our successful school safety programs.

Appreciation is tendered to the Board of Selectmen, Town Officials, Department
Heads, and to all Town employees for their support and contributions.

Respectfully Submitted,

Robert V. Jolly, Jr., General Manager

Philip W. Sweeney, Chairman
Wilbur E. Bassett, Commissioner
Calvin T. Crawford, Commissioner
Walter E. Homan, Commissioner
Charles O. Phillips, Commissioner
                    MUNICIPAL LIGHT DEPARTMENT

                                BALANCE SHEET

                       For the year ending December 31, 2009

                                       Assets

Plant Investments                                                  12,971,493.11

Current Assets:
  Cash - Operating                                  2,660,794.26
         Petty Cash                                       500.00
         Construction                                  38,759.46
  Accounts Receivable                               1,689,215.77
  Interest Receivable                                   1,440.54
  Materials & Supplies                                 78,730.27
     Total Current Assets                                           4,469,440.30


Depreciation Fund                                                   2,408,338.37
Insurance Escrow Account                                              944,020.63
Hydro Savings Reserve                                                  76,623.26
MMWEC - NEPEX Reserve Trust                                           552,050.32
Rate Stabilization Reserve                                            900,000.00
Consumer Deposits                                                      17,818.66
Prepayments                                                         1,265,186.89
     Total Assets                                                  23,604,971.54




                               Liabilities And Surplus

Accounts Payable:
  Depreciation                                         34,281.55
  Operating                                         1,170,975.22
  Construction                                              0.00
  Consumer Deposits                                       600.00
     Total Accounts Payable                                         1,205,856.77

Consumer Deposits                                                      16,618.66
Reserve for Uncollectible Accounts                                    389,002.44
Reserve for Future Compensated Absences                               158,035.64
Accumulated Provision For Rate Stabilization                          900,000.00
Unappropriated Earned Surplus                                      20,935,458.03
     Total Liabilities And Surplus                                 23,604,971.54
                    MUNICIPAL LIGHT DEPARTMENT

                             STATEMENT OF INCOME

                        For the year ending December 31, 2009



Operating Revenue                                                  14,233,656.08

Less Expenses:
   Operating                                       11,501,992.98
   Maintenance                                        853,696.19
   Depreciation                                     1,104,407.59
      Total Expenses                                               13,460,096.76

Operating Income                                                     773,559.32

Interest Income                                                       55,399.62

Less Miscellaneous Income Deductions                                        0.00

Net Income Transferred to Surplus                                    828,958.94




                            STATEMENT OF SURPLUS

                        For the year ending December 31, 2009



Balance December 31, 2008                                          20,443,105.25

Add: Credit balance transferred from income                          828,958.94
    Adjustment to transfer prior years
    Power Refunds to surplus                                                0.00

Subtotal                                                           21,272,064.19

Deduct: Amount transferred to Town Treasurer
         to reduce the Tax Levy                                      (330,000.00)
       In Lieu Of Tax Payment to City Of Salem                         (7,095.16)
       Auditor's adjusting entries for year
         ended December 2008                                             489.00

Balance December 31, 2009                                          20,935,458.03
                   MUNICIPAL LIGHT DEPARTMENT

                             OPERATING EXPENSES

                        For the year ending December 31, 2009

Power Generation Expenses:
  Fuel                                                  16,972.71
  Generating Expense - Lubricants                          894.39
  Misc. Other Power Generating Expense                   1,880.57
  Maint. of Other Power Generation                      54,563.31
     Total Power Generation Expense                                    74,310.98

Power Supply Expenses:
  Electric Energy Purchased                          7,824,576.79
  Misc. Purchased Power Expense                      1,352,711.20
     Total Power Supply Expenses                                     9,177,287.99

Transmission Expense:
   Maintenance of Overhead Lines                                             0.00

Distribution Expenses:
   Station Expense - Labor & Other                      16,587.19
   Station Expense - Heat & Electricity                 53,002.32
   Street Lighting                                       4,311.21
   Meter Expense - Inspection, Testing,
                    Removing, Resetting                113,781.24
   Customer Installation Expense                        72,570.74
   Misc. Distribution Expense                          132,909.97
   Maintenance of Structures                             3,408.78
   Maintenance of Station Equipment                     62,359.76
   Maint. of Overhead & Underground Lines              635,791.21
   Maintenance of Line Transformers                      7,394.00
   Maintenance of Meters                                    31.98
      Total Distribution Expenses                                    1,102,148.40

Customer Account Expenses:
  Supervision of Customer Accounting                    92,049.41
  Meter Reading - Labor & Expenses                      61,777.40
  Customer Records & Collections                       288,762.39
  Uncollectible Accounts                                85,000.00
  Interest Paid on Consumer Deposits                       461.29
     Total Customer Account Expenses                                  528,050.49

Advertising, Conservation, Energy Audits                              161,345.28

Administrative & General Expenses:
  Administrative Salaries                              154,776.89
  Office Supplies & Expenses                           154,014.27
  Outside Services Employed                             31,860.00
  Property Insurance                                    33,325.50
  Injuries & Damages                                     2,197.06
  Employee's Pensions & Benefits                       815,080.19
  Maintenance of General Plant                          43,726.60
  Transportation                                        46,420.55
  Miscellaneous General Expense                         31,144.97
     Total Administrative & Gen. Expenses                            1,312,546.03

     Total Operating & Maintenance Expenses                         12,355,689.17
                 MUNICIPAL LIGHT DEPARTMENT

                  NOTE TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                       For the year ending December 31, 2009

The Marblehead Municipal Light Department has since 1971 entered into power
agreements for the supply of electric energy to the Town of Marblehead. The
agreements are of varying terms with multiple suppliers ranging out to 2026. The
aggregate amount of certain obligations under the agreements as of December 31,
2009 and estimated for future years is $8,533,000.00. This sum represents a
significant part of the fixed cost portion of existing contracts for electric energy and
is accounted for in the monthly billing process. Complete audited financial
statements and supplementary reports are available at the Marblehead Municipal
Light Department.
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




        OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISSION

The Old and Historic Districts Commission (OHDC) is an all-volunteer body
appointed by the selectmen. The objective of the OHDC is to determine the
appropriateness of proposed alterations or additions to a property within the historic
district. The commission meets on the first and third Tuesday of each month in
Abbott hall at 7:30 PM. Meetings are not held on holidays, or other municipal
exclusions. Citizens may request a Certificate of Appropriateness by submitting an
application, which is available at the Selectmen’s office in Abbot Hall. Information
about the content of an application is available online or in pamphlet form in the
Selectmen’s office. At a minimum an applicant would be required to submit,
drawings, photographs, and plot plans, to support the appropriateness of the
proposed application. Upon submission the Selectmen’s office will schedule an
available time in the upcoming schedule for the application to be heard. At the
hearing the board first determines if ‘states are materially affected’, if they are not
then the board moves to vote. If they are ‘affected’ the board will determine if the
application should be heard as a public hearing. A public hearing notifies neighbors
and abutters of the intended work, and informs them of the time for the public
hearing to take place. The public hearing consists of three parts; the first is the
presentation of the application, the second part gives affected parties and abutters
the opportunity to support or oppose the applicant’s proposal, and the third part is
the boards’ deliberation and vote to approve or deny the application. Each
application is reviewed on a case by case basis. The determination of
appropriateness is based on one or more of the following; age and historical
significance of the structure, the structures relationship to open space, relative size
of new additions, changes in exterior fenestration, construction materials, and
construction methods among others. In 2009, the Commission held approximately
one hundred and ten (110) hearings including public hearings. 95% of applications
were approved and a Certificate of Appropriateness granted.

2009 was a big year for changes in the Commission with the resigning of three
members and the appointment of four new members. The Commission wishes to
thank Mr. James Patrick and Mr. Karl Renney who resigned after many years of
service to the Commission. The board would also like to thank Mrs. Susan Bragdon
for her tireless years of service and research for the board. Cheers to the Board of
Selectman for the appointment of Sally Sands and Charles Hibbard as full time
members, as well as the appointment of Karyn Lang and Bette Hunt for the two
alternate positions on the Commission.




                                         193
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Thank you all for your support.


Respectfully Submitted:


Thomas G. Saltsman, Chairman
F. Reed Cutting, Jr.
Cheryl Boots
Sally Sands
Charles Hibbard

Alternate Members:
Bette Hunt
Karyn Lang




                                   194
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                             PLANNING BOARD

The Planning Board is a five member elected board that meets on the second
Tuesday of each month. The Town Planner oversees the board’s administrative
process and provides technical assistance to prospective applicants and interested
parties seeking information.

The Site Plan Approval Special Permit process is required for all nonresidential
structures over 700 square feet, all new construction and all additions over 500
square feet located within shoreline districts and any new subdivision resulting in
three or more lots. The Planning Board issued a total of ten site plan approval
special permits in 2009. Three for residential teardowns and reconstruction located
at the following addresses; 14 Bayview Road, 10 West Orchard Street and 378
Ocean Avenue; six for additions to single family structures within shoreline districts
at the following addresses; 239 Ocean Avenue, 13 Nonantum Road, 42 Clifton
Heights Lane, 396 Ocean Avenue, 400 Ocean Avenue, 7 Mooring Road and one for
a non residential teardown and reconstruction at 154 Tedesco Street.

Under the subdivision control law the planning board endorsed three Form A-
Approval Not Required plans at the following addresses: 145/147 Humphrey Street
396 & 400 Ocean Avenue and 65 Pleasant Street.

The Planning Board sponsored three zoning articles for the 2009 annual town
meeting. One major change initiated by the Smart Growth Study Committee was a
change to the zoning by law that created two new smart growth overlay districts.
Established, pursuant to M.G.L. c.40R and 760 CMR 59.00, et seq. the Smart
Growth Overlay District are two overlay zoning districts proposed at 94 Pleasant
Street, a parcel of land of approx. 0.326 acres, commonly known as the former
YMCA, and identified as assessor map 129 parcel 20 and a parcel of land at 202
Tedesco Street, a parcel of land of approx. 1.56 acres, located near Vinnin Square
and identified as assessor Map 1 Parcel 1. The proposed Smart Growth Overlay
Districts would allow multifamily residential and mixed-use development at higher
density subject to compliance with minimum affordability requirements and smart
growth design standards. The planning board feels that this new bylaw together
with detailed design guidelines that were adopted by the Planning Board will
provide a regulatory framework that will define the site and building within these
Smart Growth Overlay Districts. The board also is confident that the bylaw and
guidelines will ensure any projects in a smart growth district will be of high quality.
Planning Board feels that the waiver provision will allow for the planning board to




                                         195
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




grant any necessary waiver on a case by case basis to ensure consistency with the
District Bylaw and/or the Design Standards.

There were also two other zoning amendments; one that adjusts the definition of
decks to bring the method of measuring the height of decks into conformance with
the method used for measuring the height of buildings and one that adds a provision
to the interpretation of the Shoreline Districts. Primarily, the Shoreline Districts
were designed to maintain view corridors to the water. This is accomplished by
requiring larger side yards. However, in some instances with certain corner or other
lots, the side yards may be parallel to the water, not perpendicular. Parallel to the
water does not provide the desired view corridor. By specifying that the side yard
setback applies to required open areas that are perpendicular to the water,
neighborhood view corridors would be more likely to be maintained.

In 2009 the Planning Board adopted a new fee schedule as follows: Incentive
Zoning Bylaw Section 200-38 Marblehead Zoning Bylaw Fee is 1/10 of one percent
of the cost of the project work. The fee cannot be less than $200.00 nor more than
$1,000.00. The fee must be paid at the time of the application. Wireless
Communication Section 200-39 & 200-14 Marblehead Zoning Bylaw Fee is
$1000.00 for a Monopole. The fee must be paid at the time of the application. Fee is
$500.00 for antenna. The fee must be paid at the time of the application. For all
special permits the applicant is responsible for paying the cost of the legal
advertisement. Site Plan Approval fees did not change and remain the same.

Planning Board members served on a variety of boards and committees in 2009
including the Jim Bishop - Metropolitan Area Planning Council, Kurt James – Fair
Housing and Smart Growth Committee and Edward Nilsson on the Zoning Sub-
Committee.

The Planning Board thanks the Board of Appeals, especially Barbara Shefftz, and
the Building Department for their input on the Planning Board’s Zoning
Subcommittee and in the coordination and cooperation on various projects
throughout the year.

The Board wants to thank Doug Saal who served the board in his almost 30 years in
his capacity as town engineer. Doug retired in June and his expertise and knowledge
will be missed by the board. Since Doug Saal’s retirement, the planning board
thanks Willy Lanphear who replaced Doug Saal and provides technical assistance to
the board and to prospective applicants. Planning Board applications are processed




                                        196
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




in the Engineering Department by Andrea Flaxer. As always the board thanks
Andrea for her incredible efficiency and excellent work.


Philip Helmes, Chairman
James Bishop
Kurt James
Karl Johnson
Edward O. Nilsson
Russell Beck, Alternate
Rebecca Curran – Town Planner




                                   197
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                          POLICE DEPARTMENT

The Marblehead Police Department is pleased to submit to the citizens of
Marblehead our Annual Report for the year ending December 31, 2009.

For the year 2009 the Police Department had a total of 16,718 logged incidents
requiring police response with 543 of those incidents involving felonies. The
Department had a total of 240 arrests including 30 for protective custody.
Department officers stopped 1,910 motor vehicles for various violations and issued
a total of 722 citations. There were a total of 250 reported motor vehicle accidents
in 2009 with one fatal pedestrian accident. Officers issued 2,934 parking tickets
during 2009.

The Police Department saw no police officer retirements or officers hired in 2009.
We are still waiting for the promotional exams to be taken so that permanent
promotions can be made. We expect the exam to take place in the fall of 2010 with
promotions to follow in early 2011. We did have two long time civilian employees
retire after many years of service. Clerk Alison Murray and custodian Bartlett
Sherman both retired this year. To replace them we were very lucky to find Mari
Goetz and Charles Sinclair Sr.

This year we saw the very successful Community policing Grant from the State end
as a result of State budget cuts. This money will be greatly missed. We did apply for
and get a Traffic Enforcement grant which will carry into 2010 for targeted
enforcement periods.

The Department would like to thank all the citizens of Marblehead for their
assistance and support over the past year.

I would also like to thank the officers and staff of the Police Department for their
dedication and professionalism in carrying out their duty throughout the year.

Respectfully Submitted,
Robert O. Picariello
Chief of Police




                                         198
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Police Department Personnel 2009:
Police Officers:

Chief Robert O. Picariello
Temporary Captain Mark D. Mills
Lieutenant David J. Millett
Lieutenant Matthew Freeman
Lieutenant Jonathan Lunt
Temporary Lieutenant Nicholas Economou
Sergeant Donald Decker
Sergeant Marion Keating
Sergeant Sean Sweeney
Sergeant Jason Conrad


Patrol Officers:

Arthur Buckley Jr.         Sean Brady
Paul J. A. Belyea          Charles Sinclair
Lori Knowles               Eric Osattin
Roy Ballard                Brendan Finnegan
David Ostrovitz            Michael Daigle
Christopher Gallo          Dennis DeFelice
Cary Gaynor                Adam Mastrangelo
Dean Peralta               Michael Everett
Christopher Adkerson       Richard Alex
Jason McDonald             Andrew Clark
Michael Roads


E-911 Dispatchers:

Supervisor Amy Gilliland
Scott Kaufman
Teresa Collins
Gregory Lapham
Matthew Lunt (cont.)




                                     199
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Nicholas Michaud
Michael Economou

Senior Clerk:
Deborah Frongillo

Part Time Clerk:          General labor:
Mari Goetz                Charles Sinclair Sr.

Animal Control Division:
Animal Control officer Betsy Tufts
Assistant Laura Consigli
Assistant Diane Treadwell

Animal Inspector:
Isabel Lorenco

School Traffic Supervisors:
Paul Lemieux              Edith Chalifour
Anton Cohen (ret.)        Betty Gatchell (ret.)
John Spanks               Leonard Cormier
Warren Perry              Randi Warren
Margaret Denis            Douglas Bates
Robin Reed                Earline Lemieux
Susan Page                Basil Rubin
Elizabeth Greely          Katherine Millett
Thomas Adams              Marjorie Mace
Tracy Tavis (ret.)        Leroy Millett
John O’Connell




                                       200
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                            ANIMAL CONTROL

Calls to the Police Station for Animal Control in 2009: 1,555
(These do not include calls made directly to the shelter or the Animal Control
Officer)

DOGS:
Impounded                  63
Returned to Owner          61
Released to Shelter        10
Adopted                    12
Euthanized                 0
Stray/Loose                401
Neglect/Cruelty            27
        Unfounded          26
Hit by Car                 3
Misc.                      20

Dog Bites / Quarantines:
        To Human         26         to Animal         17       Unknown       3

CITATIONS:                                   REPEAT OFFENDERS:
Failure to leash           128                        20
Failure to License          68                        71
Pooper Scooper             8
Beach/Park                 26
Excessive Barking          70                         5
Failure Vaccinate/Rabies 1
(These are issued after verbal and written warnings in most cases)

The Animal Control Officer would like to remind everyone that there are no
“unwritten laws” regarding the leash law. The Towns leash law requires, when you
are off your property with your dog, that it be leashed 24/7/365. That means
secured from the owner to the dog regardless of how well your dog is trained. All
dogs must be leashed, licensed, wearing said license and picked up after.




                                        201
                           MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




CATS:
Reported Missing            92
Found                       28
Abandoned /Neglected        11
           Unfounded        10
Hit by Car                  9
Rescued                     23
Deceased                    11

Cat Bites / Quarantines:
         To Human           10     To animal         2         Unknown          38

Animals Adopted:
Cats/Kittens                152
Rabbits                     2
Ferrets                     2
Birds                       1
Sadly, one of our shelter cats, “Spice” succumbed to cancer.

Animal Control would like to remind all cat owners that they need to keep their cats
rabies vaccinations up to date.
Our Animal Control office and shelter is located at 44 Village Street. I deeply
appreciate all the love and support, not to mention the countless hours, our
volunteers give 365 days a year.

WILD LIFE CALLS:                   Rehab/Foster     Put to Sleep   Road Kill
Skunks       18                                                       1
Raccoons     92                              12                       14
Birds        103                             56                       2
Squirrels    105                             11          2            43
Woodchucks   7                                                        5
Opossum      6


WILD LIFE CALLS cont:              Rehab/Foster     Put to Sleep   Road Kill




                                       202
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Bat               15
Fox               133                         5                          5
Coyote            41                                                     3
Fisher Cat        3                                                      1
Wolves            2
Seal              14
Raptor            4                                   2
Turtle            5
Rabbit            3
Duck              10                                  4
Snake             3
Deer              2
Ferret            2
Shark             1
Rat               5                                                      2
Alpaca            2
Bees              1
Misc.             29

This year, the fox and coyote population were severely hit with mange, a mite that
burrows into the skin and lays its eggs. They then begin to grow causing severe
itching which in turn generates a massive allergic response causing hair loss,
scabbing and an overall sickly appearance. This resulted in nearly 200 calls to the
police station. Five foxes were trapped and brought to a rehabilitator. Since it is
illegal to relocate wild life, the rehabilitated animals were brought back to
Marblehead and released where they were trapped.

The Atlantic Veterinary Hospital, owned and operated by Jeff Rockwell D.V.M.
continues to be our Town designated vet. Dr. Rockwell and his staff make
themselves available to us 24/7 for dogs and cats hit by cars as well as shelter
emergencies. It is vital to the operation of our department knowing that this facility
is available when we have a suffering animal on our hands.




                                        203
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                       RECREATION AND PARKS
The Recreation and Parks Commission submits this report for the year ending
December 31, 2009.

The Commission is made up of five residents who are elected annually at a general
Town election on the second Monday in May each year. The Commission’s
regularly scheduled meetings are held on the first and third Tuesday of each month
at 7:00 PM in the Community Center at 10 Humphrey Street. These meetings
consist of reports, the appearance of persons or groups on the agenda, the review of
correspondence submitted for consideration, discussions of plans and objectives,
and reviews of policies, rules, and regulations as needed. The Commission reviews
and approves the hiring of personnel when recommendations are presented.
Programs and budgets are reviewed by the Commission annually and they act as an
advocate with the Finance Committee and at Town Meeting. The Commission also
reviews and approves the fees and charges made for various uses and programs
concerning the department. The Commission has responsibility for overseeing the
programming, rental, and operation of the Community Center. Night and weekend
fees and rental charges are used in the Revolving Fund to contribute to the operating
and utility costs of the Community Center.

Fields and school athletic facility maintenance

The Department maintained the fields and was responsible for the field preparation,
including lines, for the following sports: High School (Varsity, Junior Varsity, and
Frosh): football, baseball, softball, lacrosse, soccer, and field hockey; Youth Sports
baseball and football; men’s softball and soccer, women’s softball, and co-ed
softball.

Spring required varsity school sports first (Seaside baseball, High School softball,
Middle School lacrosse and baseball), followed by the mid-April Youth Sports
through summer, adult softball through September, and varsity/JV soccer, field
hockey, and football at the end of August. For the months of September, October,
and November, all fall varsity and junior varsity football, soccer, and field hockey
school and youth sports fields were maintained for soccer and football.

The mowing and trimming of athletic fields is done on weekdays with school in
session due to extensive usage on afternoons, evenings, and weekends. Line
marking with latex paint and/or non-caustic chalk is also done while classes are
inside the schools. Mowing of properties began in early April and continued




                                        204
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




through November on a five day per week schedule. Leaf cleanups ran October
through December, and spring cleanups ran March through May. In cooperation
with the school department special playground fiber was purchased and added to all
school and town playgrounds as needed for safety surfacing to reduce the chance of
injuries due to falls. The department was unable to “manicure” the grounds at the
Schools due to budget and manpower limitations; plantings and mulch were added
as time and materials allowed.

Budget and staff limitations, requests for extra work, and changes on short notice
remained a continual problem. Early spring and late fall field scheduling depended
on when fields were dormant, wet, frozen, or overused in any one area. Turf damage
had extended to a whole playing season in some cases and could not be
satisfactorily repaired without either closing the damaged field completely and/or
taking on substantial additional expenses for replacement materials and overtime.
Fall is the best time to do seeding and sod work on fields but was frequently in
conflict with the demands of the activities scheduled and the department’s continual
shortage of funds, materials, and manpower vs. those demands.

The department continued to utilize money from the operating budget to complete
necessary projects on athletic fields. The Village School lower field and Gatchells
football field were closed from the beginning of June through the end of August.
The fields were top dressed and the worn areas were repaired and seeded. Through
hard work and maintenance by the park department staff the fields responded well
to the work and looked stronger for the fall season. Piper Field received more than
9,000 square feet of new sod. The center of the field was cut out and the existing
turf was removed. The surface was then graded with additional loam and new sod
was installed. An additional 8,500 square feet of new sod was installed in areas that
were compacted or had poor drainage.

In June conditions became normalized and the landscaping and horticultural
problems slowed down, allowing the department to begin fertilizing, aerating,
seeding and mowing.

During the year a sports utilization group met at the Community Center with Sam
Ganglani and Linda Rice Collins acting as liaisons for the Commission. The group
kept communications and scheduling concerns open so the various town sports
teams and coaches could minimize conflicts and maximize usage.

Resident Karin Martin continued outstanding assistance at Memorial Park as part of
the Council on Aging’s program to pick up and clean the area on a daily basis. The




                                        205
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




others who provided outstanding assistance as part of this program in other areas at
various times during the year were: Marge Mace at Redd’s Pond, Old Burial Hill,
and Fort Sewall, Carol Green at Devereux Beach, and Jim Zeiff and Fred Alling at
Fort Sewall and Crocker park assisting with keeping the dog waste bag stations
supplied.

All line marking, mowing, and field schedule changes were coordinated by Grounds
Foreman Peter James who assigned Pat Sylvester to the athletic field marking. Pat’s
efforts continually earned kudos from the school department and youth sports
leagues.

The parks maintenance expense budget was again level funded for fiscal year 2010
while material and delivery costs continued to increase. With these restrictions, and
the limited available seasonal maintenance staff, one of the park’s seven full time
employees was again switched to a Wednesday – Sunday schedule and dedicated to
trash removal and restroom repairs and maintenance during the summer season.

The Commission receives numerous requests for fund raising and business use of
the Community Center and the parks. These requests must be approved by a vote of
the Commission as required in the Town By-laws. Among those approved were:

        At the community center:
              o The Chamber of Commerce’s Home and Garden Weekend Show.
              o The Board of Health Flu Shot Clinics.
              o The Marblehead Arrangers Garden Club Christmas plant and
                  arrangement sale during the Christmas Walk.
              o The Democratic Town Committee Caucus
              o Scouting functions
              o Marblehead Family fund “Touch a Truck”
              o Free seminars
        Shore Lea Nature Center:
              o The Massachusetts Audubon Society sponsored a camp program
                  during July with the staff from the Ipswich River Sanctuary
                  supervising.
        Devereux Beach and parking areas:
              o Senior Class Carnival.
              o The M.S. Walk in April.
              o The Boston Children’s Hospital “Cycle for Life” used the beach
                  to begin and end its fund raising bike ride.




                                        206
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




             o    Several other bicycle and road races to use the beach to begin and
                  end events.
             o Rack storage for prams/kayaks.
             o Winter dock storage
        Gerry Playground:
             o The Republican Town Committee.
             o Several Cub Scout outings.
             o Eco Farm Co-operative Market from spring through fall.
             o Rack storage for prams/kayaks.
        Other fields:
             o Boy Scout Troop 11 for the sale of Christmas trees at Gatchells
                  Playground.
             o The Y.M.C.A. fun run at Seaside Park and outdoor summer
                  programs at Orne, Gerry, and Hobbs Playgrounds for soccer and
                  T-ball programs.

Building and Comfort Station (restroom) Maintenance

In addition to the community center other buildings required more attention due to
increased demand. The department continuously maintained a workshop and
equipment storage at Devereux Beach, the garage on Vine Street, the cemetery
garage at Waterside, Gerry Playground garages and playground room storage, and
the Seaside Park grandstand storage for supplies only.

The department also maintained comfort stations (restrooms) at the following
locations: Chandler Hovey Park, Devereux Beach, Crocker Park, Fort Sewall,
Reynolds Playground, Gerry Playground, Gatchells Playground, and Hamond
Nature Center on a seasonal basis. Water & Sewer costs, electricity, cleaning
supplies, and paper goods all came from the department budget. Doggie bags were
provided through the department’s budget at Chandler Hovey Park, Crocker Park,
and Fort Sewall. Dogs are prohibited from all athletic fields and children’s
playgrounds; all other Parks require dogs to be on a leash and dog waste is required
by law to be disposed of in proper safe receptacles designed for fecal waste disposal
(not public trash barrels).

Park improvements

Through hard work and dedication by a number of community groups and residents
the following park improvements were made possible.




                                        207
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




    •   In cooperation with numerous town departments the house (Fader Place) at
        Orne Playground was taken down.
    •   Phase one of the much anticipated “Dog Park” was completed on the hill
        above the playing field at Reynolds Playground.
    •   The renovation of the Bud Orne Rink continued with the installation of a
        new surface, boards and fencing.
    •   The basketball court at Seaside Park was removed and completely
        resurfaced.
    •   The major league infield at Gatchells was removed, graded and new sod
        and infield mix were installed.

Anticipated capital improvements

   Repairs and restroom remodeling at Crocker Park.
   Updated provisions for handicap access at Fort Sewall.

Leased Properties

The Devereux Beach Concession Stand was operated in 2009 by Mr. Paul Petersiel
doing business as “Lime Rickey’s” in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 30 with
permission of the Board of Selectmen and the Recreation & Parks Commission.

The Gerry Playground house (A.K.A the Stramski house) lease still remained
vacant. The Commission continued to seek usage of the facility compatible with
recreation & park programs and policies.

Equipment Replacement and Seasonal Staffing

The department continued to look for reliable seasonal maintenance staff from April
through November, utilizing college students during the summer school break
which left us short staffed during spring and fall months when we needed them the
most. This has resulted in the shifting of budget monies to allow for use of sub
contracting in some areas to meet the demands of grounds maintenance.

Facility & Grounds Landscape Maintenance Program

The Parks and Forestry staff was responsible for the landscape maintenance,
mowing, trimming of trees and shrubs, and removal of litter on the following
properties in 2010 (Note: “*” denotes athletic fields requiring continuous mowing,
lining, and reconditioning for the Town’s sports programs):




                                       208
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




 Recreation, Parks, &         Cemetery & Historic
                                                          Public Landings:
     Properties:                    Grounds:
   Castle Rock Park           Cressy Street Cemetery        Barnegat trash
 Chandler Hovey Park          Green Street Cemetery      Clark Landing trash
  Community Center            Hooper Tomb Cemetery         Cloutmans trash
     Crocker Park             Harris Street Cemetery    Commercial Street trash
   Devereux Beach            Old Burial Hill Cemetery     Parker Yard trash
      Fort Beach                   Redd’s Pond           Tucker Wharf Trash
                                Waterside Cemetery
     Fountain Park              (when requested by
                              Cemetery Department)
   Gerry Playground          School Dept. properties:   Other Public Grounds:
                                Beacon/Green Street
* Gatchells Playground                                        Fort Sewall
                                      reserve
 * Hobbs Playground                 Bell School           Gas House Beach
  * Orne Playground                Coffin School         Grace Oliver’s Beach
* Reynolds Playground             Eveleth School            Red Steps Way
    * Seaside park                 Gerry School         Fort Sewall turnaround
    Memorial Park                 Glover School           Brookhouse Drive
                                * Marblehead High
Devereux Beach garage                                    Gallison Avenue Way
                                      School
    Vine St. Garage            Lincoln Ave. reserve        Gatchells Green
                               * The Village Middle
                                                          Lovis Cove Beach
                                      School
                               * The Veterans Junior
                                   High School
                                                            Conservation
                             Other Public Building’s
         Other:                                          Commission Lands
                                   properties:
                                                         (As labor permits):
                                                         Bicycle, Exercise, &
                                   Abbot Hall
                                                          conservation trails
Traffic Islands (donated)        Abbot Library             Robinson Farm
 All Public litter barrels         Gun House            Hamond Nature Center
                               Mary Alley Building           Forest River
                                 OKO Building              Hawthorn Pond
                                Old Town House              Steer Swamp
                                 Powder House              Wyman Woods
                               Tower Way Grounds              Ware Pond




                                      209
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Winter and spring 2009 Recreation Programs

The department continued the successful ski program under the planning and
supervision of Recreation Supervisor Mike Lane to Attitash/Bear Peak in Bartlett,
N.H. leaving at 6:00 AM on five Saturdays and returning at approximately 6:00 PM.

The department also continued to offer the family skating program at Salem State
College for two hours on Sunday afternoons from October through February, and
programs at the community center and other Town facilities including: An adult
boot camp; A Saturday morning Youth Basketball program; a winter pre-school
“indoor park”; after school programs sports clinics, “Know Atom” science classes,
Lego workshops, piano lessons, and a Girl’s Basketball program for girls in grades
2 – 8. Evenings featured adult badminton on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Sundays
and adult pickup volleyball on Mondays, and Thursdays. Marblehead Youth
Badminton and Marblehead Youth Basketball also rented time in the gym for their
programs on weekday afternoons.

Mike Lane continued to coordinate and implement a number of free community
events such as the Yearly Christmas parade, the free Halloween decorating contest,
and the free “Talk with Santa” program.

Summer and fall 2009 Recreation Programs
The department continued providing numerous summer outdoor programs (with
rain locations provided) including the Gerry playground program (ages 5-7) and the
Seaside Park program (ages 8-11). Both programs offered an “extended day”
option. Other programs offered in various locations included: Field trips to Canobie
Lake Park and Water Country; The Magician’s football, field hockey, basketball,
baseball, and lacrosse clinics; the Roger Day baseball clinic, a soccer clinic; tennis
lessons, girl’s evening basketball at Seaside Park; youth sailing classes at Gerry
Playground; and kayaking instruction at Riverhead Beach. Indoor programs in
summer and fall at the Community Center continued to offer science classes, adult
volleyball, and piano lessons.

Department Staff
This past year the Marblehead Recreation and Parks department experienced a
period of change as longtime Superintendent R. Thomas Hamond retired after more
than thirty nine years of service to the town. Tom began working for the town as a
tree climber and throughout his time with the town he was instrumental in the
design and construction of the community center, worked on the Commemorative




                                        210
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Anniversary and Re-enactment of the USS Constitution taking shelter in
Marblehead Harbor, applied for and received a grant to perform a full tree inventory
for the town, and has served on a number of other committees and boards. We look
forward to working with Tom on special projects and tapping into his vast
knowledge of Marblehead.

We want to thank the Department’s employees for their dedication to our Town’s
natural resources and recreation opportunities. The following worked for the
Departments during the past year:
   Brendan Egan, Department Superintendent
   C. Michael Lane, Recreation Supervisor and Assistant Superintendent
   Ric Reynolds, Senior Clerk
   Peter R. James, Working Foreman/Building and Grounds
   Robert Gillis, Parks Maintenance Craftsman
   Greg Snow, Maintenance Craftsman/Mechanic
   Reginald Berry, Mike Attridge, Brad Delisle, and Pat Sylvester,
    Maintenance/Groundskeepers.

There are many instructors who worked in the various recreation programs,
playground, and other leisure services within the department in the parks and at the
Community Center. Also, there were seasonal maintenance workers and caretakers
for the parks, and summer maintenance workers and lifeguards at Devereux Beach.

The Commission would like to thank the staffs of the Tree, Highway, Health,
Harbormaster, Building, Schools, Finance, Municipal Light, Cemetery, Police, Fire,
and Water/Sewer Departments for their continued support and the Town
Administrator, Town Clerk’s, and Selectmen’s office for their assistance during the
past year.

Every year there are many who volunteer with maintenance and recreation
programs for the Town. The Commission wants to express its thanks on behalf of
all the residents who benefit from the countless hours volunteered, making
Marblehead a great place to live.




                                       211
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Respectfully submitted,

Chip Osborne, Chairman
Derek Norcross
Sam Ganglani
Linda Rice-Collins
Chuck Nyren

Brendan Egan
Superintendent, Recreation & Parks




                                     212
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




             SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES

The following work was completed for the year ending Dec 31, 2009:

Scales Sealed:                             44
Scales Condemned:                           0
Gasoline/Diesel pumps Sealed:               6
Gasoline/Diesel pumps NOT Sealed:           0
Scales Rechecked After Repairs              0
Consumer Complaints Investigated            0
Report Letter Written                       0
Apothecary Sets Sealed                      3

Respectfully submitted,


David C Rodgers
Sealer




                                     213
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                       SHELLFISH CONSTABLES

Devereux, Tucker’s, and Goldthwait beaches were opened for the harvesting of surf
clams in November. The Board of Health supplied the MA Division of Marine
Fisheries with historical water quality reports. As of the writing of this report there
were 50 licenses issued to date for the 09/10 season. The clamming season in
Marblehead is during the months of September through April. The areas may open
later and close temporarily during the season when environmental issues may
change.

Monitoring diggers, checking water quality and testing of the clams is performed
constantly by the Board of Health, MA Division of Marine Fisheries and local
residents that have volunteered to serve as Shellfish Constables. The Town Clerk
and her staff have been very diligent in processing the paperwork for the State and
issuing licenses.

Respectfully submitted,

Wayne O. Attridge, Chief Shellfish Constable

         Constables:
         Douglas Aikman
         John Gregory Attridge
         Raymond Bates Jr.
         Harry Christensen, Esq.
         David Donahue
         Deborah Fadden
         Jeffrey Flynn
         R. Thomas Hamond
         Susan Hogan




                                         214
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




           TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION

In the summer of 1989, a series of horrific hate crimes occurred at the Jewish
Community Center of the North Shore and Temple Emanu-el. The community
response to these crimes was that of outrage. At that time, a group of citizens
requested that the Board of Selectmen appoint a task force.

At their regular meeting on August 2, 1989, the Board voted to establish and
commission the Task Force Against Discrimination to help fight acts of
discrimination, hatred and bigotry. Ever since, the Task Force has had a visible
presence in the town, meeting in open session on a regular basis, creating
informative programming and reacting to situations that have arisen. The
committee is appointed yearly by the Board of Selectmen and includes members of
the clergy, educators, students, the Marblehead Police Department and concerned
citizens.

In honor of its 20th Anniversary, the Board of Selectmen designated July 31- August
2, 2009 “Marblehead Task Force Against Discrimination Weekend.” The 20th
Anniversary Resolution, as adopted by the Marblehead Board of Selectmen, is
included below.

To celebrate the 20th Anniversary Weekend, the Task Force planned several events.
The art and design students at Marblehead High School participated in a logo
contest to design a new Task Force logo to honor the occasion. The winning design
was the work of Michael Harper, MHS class of 2012.

During the commemorative weekend, the Task Force had a booth at the Farmer’s
Market on the morning of Saturday August 1st to display the new logo and to give
the history of the past 20 years. Logo buttons and window decals were given out to
attendees. That evening, an interactive improvisational theater about the struggles
and joys of our community was presented and tremendously well-received to a sell-
out crowd at the Unitarian –Universalist Church. At religious services throughout
the weekend, the clergy directed their sermons toward inclusiveness and anti-
discrimination.

This past year, Helaine R. Hazlett and Rev. Anne Marie Hunter, the co-chairs of the
Task Force, have been recognized by the Anti Defamation League for their work in
fighting prejudice and building bridges among different communities. Ms. Hazlett
received the James L. Rudolph Volunteer Leadership Award and Rev. Hunter was
given the Leonard P. Zakim Humanitarian Award.




                                       215
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Throughout the years, the Marblehead Task Force Against Discrimination’s mission
has been to work toward a safe community that celebrates diversity. Marblehead is
a place where diversity is embraced and where discrimination will not be tolerated.

The Task Force’s 20th Anniversary resolution reads as follows.


WHEREAS, a heinous and cowardly act of desecration was perpetrated in
Marblehead against Temple Emanu-el and the Jewish Community Center of the
North Shore in 1989, and

WHEREAS, the immediate response of the Marblehead community and the Board
of Selectmen was to re-affirm their united and enthusiastic support for diversity and
respect by establishing the Marblehead Task Force Against Discrimination on
August 2, 1989, and

WHEREAS, the Marblehead Task Force against Discrimination has worked
tirelessly to engage the people of Marblehead and to respond to and prevent hate
crimes of all kinds, and

WHEREAS, Marblehead will not tolerate any form of hatred, discrimination, or
bigotry, and

WHEREAS, the need continues to address discrimination proactively and with
determination in order to establish a culture in which the dignity of all citizens of
Marblehead is respected, and

WHEREAS, a diverse community is stronger, more dynamic, and more resilient,
and so continues to be valued in Marblehead,

THEREFORE, we, the Board of Selectmen of the Town of Marblehead, hereby
designate Friday, July 31 through Sunday, August 2, 2009 as a time for Marblehead
residents to observe the 20th Anniversary of the Task Force against Discrimination,

and we call on Marblehead residents, of all ages, races, classes, sexual orientations,
faiths, physical and mental abilities, and backgrounds to join with the Task Force
against Discrimination in continuing to make Marblehead a respectful, supportive,
and inclusive community for its many and diverse citizens and visitors.




                                        216
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Respectfully submitted,

Helaine R. Hazlett, Co-Chair
Rev. Anne Marie Hunter, Co-Chair

Melissa Aizanman
Michael Harper
Mary Levine
Judy Luise
Harvey Michaels
Chief Robert Picariello
Barbara Schneider
Monica Tecca
Deacon John Whipple




                                   217
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                          TREE DEPARTMENT

Public shade trees located on public ways are under the jurisdiction of the Tree
Warden and the four person tree crew. The department made a smooth transition
from the Parks and Recreation to the DPW in January 2009. The department tries to
identify and reduce hazards along public ways including the parks, cemeteries, and
school grounds. Department employees removed over one hundred and sixty dead
or hazardous trees, also removed the same amount of stumps, and trimmed well
over four hundred trees, and planted sixty new trees around town.

Telephone calls from residents regarding tree matters remained heavy through the
spring, summer, and fall and we made every effort to respond to all calls. Tree
department employees also assist the DPW with plowing and snow removal, and
assist the Electric Light department with storm emergencies and line clearing.

Marblehead again qualified for the National Tree City USA as designated by the
National Arbor day Foundation. The department purchases seedlings from the
Massachusetts Tree Wardens and Foresters Association that were planted in
conservation areas by the Marblehead Conservancy and other volunteers. The
department also received a $5,000.00 grant for tree inspections through MIIA the
town’s insurance agency with the help of Deb Fadden special clerk and insurance
liaison.

The department would like to thank the DPW for all their help this past year with
special thanks to DPW director Dana Snow, Assistant Director David Donahue and
senior clerk Sue Hogan. I would like to thank Tree department employees for their
hard work and dedication. I would like to thank the town for their continued
support.

Respectfully submitted,
Doug Gordon, Tree Warden

Ed Park, Foreman
Art Beauchesne, Groundsman
Walter Leszynski, Heavy Equipment Operator
Rob Fallon, Tree climber/ Forestry Maintenance




                                      218
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                            VETERAN’S AGENT

I hereby submit my report as Veterans Agent, Flag Officer, Veterans Burial Officer
and Veterans Graves Registration Officer for the year ending December 31, 2009.

My number one duty is to the Veterans of the Town of Marblehead and their
families. I continue to attend State and Federal training sessions and seminars to
remain updated in all aspects of Veterans Affairs.

Office records for 2009 indicate that five Veterans or their families filed for benefits
under Mass General Laws, Chapter 115. This chapter of the law provides assistance
to Veterans in need.

Requests for assistance in filing for Department of Veterans Affairs Benefits
(Federal) remained high. This office has encouraged enrollment in the VA
Healthcare System. Many Marblehead Veterans have taken advantage of this health
benefit, which includes obtaining daily prescription drugs for $8.00 per month for
each medication. Casket Flags and Grave Markers were the principal Death
Benefits filed for with the Department of Veterans Affairs.

Packages were sent to our service men and women deployed overseas in the WAR
ON TERROR. The Gerry Five VFA, Chaplain Lyman Rollins VFW Post 2005 and
many members of the community assisted.

A total of 70 Marblehead Veterans were laid to rest between November 11, 2008
and November 11, 2009. A large percent of these men and women were World War
II Veterans. As a town and country we have an obligation to this generation of
Americans. Service to our Veterans and their families remains the most important
goal of this office.

I would like to thank Chaplain Lyman Rollins VFW Post 2005, the American
Legion Post 32 and the US Submarine Veterans, Marblehead Base for their
assistance in the affairs of this office in 2009. I would also like to thank
Marbleheader Karen Martin for her work in Memorial Park.


Respectfully submitted,


David C. Rodgers, Veterans Agent




                                         219
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                WATER AND SEWER COMMISSION

The Water and Sewer Commission is pleased to submit its report for calendar year
2009. In the past year, our staff has completed many tasks, as well as continued its
planning on many new improvements to be performed by the Water, Sewer and
Drain Departments.

The Water Department has completed all of its annual maintenance and inspections
including system flushing, hydrant inspection, painting and replacement, water
quality testing and backflow inspection, water meter reading, replacement, as well
as the continued installation of radio reading devices. Other programs performed
include leak detection, gate valve maintenance and replacement, water main repairs,
and addressing customer concerns.

In April of 2009, The Water Department started the replacement of one of the oldest
sections of water main in our inventory. This was an old 8” line on Harbor Ave.
and Ocean Ave., as well as on Nahant St. The entire length was replaced with a
new 12” PVC line to Nahant St.; with the remainder of Ocean Ave. and Nahant St.
receiving a new 8” line. This work was completed before the end of July. The
Commission is currently planning to reline water mains on a number of streets in
the Spring.

The Sewer Department has continued its annual maintenance program. This
includes the maintenance of its 28 sewer pump stations. Other maintenance will
include line cleaning, root treatment, and inspection of over 100 miles of sewer
mains, as well as over 3,000 manholes.

The Sewer Department has recently opened bids to replace sewer lines on Tuft St.
as well as Ruby Ave. This will replace two sections of old clay pipe which required
continuous maintenance. Other work in progress includes the replacement of all
electrical controls at the Fort Beach pump station.

The Storm Drain Department has continued to maintain the over 2,000 catch basins
throughout town. Other work performed included rebuilding over 34 catch basins
and building 3 new manholes. Other tasks included the repeated cleaning of ditches
and drain outlets, and the installation of a new section of drains on Bennett Rd. and
Overlook Rd. All catch basins were once again cleaned during the months of
October and November.




                                        220
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Our office staff has once again been busy processing over 30,000 bills, while
collecting over $7,000,000 in revenue. Other duties include maintaining records to
house connection cards, construction planning, scheduling appointments, providing
information to hundreds of customers, and addressing mark out requests. New for
this year is our ability to accept On-line payments, (see the Town website for
specifics).

The Commission wishes to welcome Lynne DeGrandpre` to the office staff. Our
office manager Linda Matthews will be retiring in early April. We wish her many
happy years ahead. She has been a valuable asset to the Commission for more than
21 ½ years.

I will also be retiring at the end of March after 37 ½ years with the Town. It has
been an honor to serve our community. I am very grateful to the Commission for
selecting me for employment, and extremely appreciative of the entire Town’s
support over the years. I am especially proud of all the employees who have
performed the work to make our Commission so successful.

I would like to thank all the Town Departments, and especially our own employees
for another year filled with accomplishment. Finally, I congratulate Charles
McCollum on his well deserved appointment to Superintendent of the Water and
Sewer Commission. He’ll do a great job!

Respectfully submitted,

Dana E. Snow
Superintendent

Marblehead Water and Sewer Commission
F. Carlton Siegel, P. E., Chairman
Emerson F. Brown, Vice Chairman
Wilbur E. Bassett, P. E.
Bradford N. Freeman
John P. Doane
Telephone:         (781) 631-0102
FAX Number: (781) 631-2670

Dana E. Snow, Superintendent      Charles R. McCollum, Assistant Superintendent




                                      221
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Water Department Employees:        Sewer Department Employees:
William Haskell, Spec. Labor III Mark Fulton, Spec. Labor III
Gregory Burt, Water Technician James Johnson, Mech. Pipefitter II
John Bradshaw, Mech. Pipefitter Jonathan Morley, Mech. Pipefit./TV Spec.
Michael Marsters, Mech. Pipefitter Robert Landry, Mech. Pipefitter
David Cameron, Heavy Eq. Op.       Brian Conrad, Mech. Pipefitter
Corey Smith, Spec. Labor I         Eric Hildonen, Heavy Eq. Op.
Matthew Thibault, Spec. Labor I Stephen Hull, Spec. Labor I
Peter Dorney, Spec. Labor I        Michael Atkins, Spec. Labor I

Office Employees:              Drain Department Employees:
Linda Matthews, Office Manager Kevin Wilson, Leader Drains
Krissey Regan, Billing Tech.   William Larios, Heavy Eq. Op.
Lynne DeGrandpre`, Spec. Clerk


                     WATER DEPARTMENT REPORT

1.    Water Breaks                                 6
2.    Hydrants Replaced                           5
3.    Hydrants Repaired                            4
4.    New Water Service and Renewals              14
5.    Inside Valves Replaced                      16
6.    New Water Mains or Extensions                 3
7.    Water Services Repaired                      9
8.    New Sprinkler Lines                          1
9.    Frozen Water Meters                        18
10.   Hydrants Painted                            50
11.   Hydrants Inspected                         830
12.   Trouble Calls                                  4
13.   New Radio Read Devices                     325

                      SEWER DEPARTMENT REPORT

1.    Sewer Lines Cleaned /H2O used              65,981 Ft.-206,950 Gal.
                                                  (12.4miles)
2.    Drain Lines Cleaned/H2O used               400 Ft.-8,000+- Gal.
3.    Wet Wells Cleaned/H2O used                 37 – 18,000 Gal.
4.    Total Amount H2O used from l, 2 & 3        232,950 Gallons +
5.    Vacuum Dig Repairs                         22




                                       222
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




6.    Lines Televised                                   600 Ft.+-
7.    Services Repaired – Permits                        22
        New Services                                      6
        Construction Repairs                              2
8.    Manholes Repaired                                   25
9.    Dig Safe Mark Outs                                905
10.   Oil Spills In Sewer/Drains                           0
11.   Footage of Sewer Lines Treated for Roots         4,572 Ft.
12.   Vehicles/Major Equipment Maintained                 23
13.   Constructed Inverts on Active 18” Line             3

                         DRAIN DEPARTMENT REPORT

1. Added Connections for Sump Pumps              21
2. Catch Basins Repaired or Replaced             34
3. New Manholes                                   3
4. Jet Vac Cleaned                            1,200 Ft.
5. Cleared Open Ditches
6. Check All Outfalls Regularly
7. Cleared Key Basins of Snow Multiple Times
8. Constructed A New Drain-Bennett Rd. to Overlook Rd.


               REPORT OF THE SOUTH ESSEX SEWERAGE
                          DISTRICT
As the Town’s representative to the South Essex Sewerage District (SESD), I am
pleased to submit the following report for calendar year 2009.

I am pleased to report that our treatment facility has continued to perform well. As
in past years, our staff has continued to refine our treatment methods to assure the
best level of treatment at the lowest cost. We have continued with our efforts to
design and construct a relatively new process called co-generation. This is an
efficient way of producing electricity, and then utilizing the heat of the off gasses to
heat our facility and provide drying for our odor control. Design of this facility will
be completed this year.

Our Director Hal Newhall has announced that he will retire in June of this year. He
has proven to be an excellent manager. We wish him many happy years of




                                         223
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




retirement. The current District Engineer Arthur Knight has been chosen to be his
replacement.

At this time, I wish to recognize all the employees of the SESD, and commend them
for a very productive and successful year.

As always, we are pleased to answer any questions that may arise about our
excellent waste water treatment facility. I continue to be very proud to be part of
this operation, and look forward to the continued operation of this excellent, clean,
safe and efficient facility.

Respectfully submitted,

Dana E. Snow
SESD Representative




                                        224
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Prepared by: Brian McNamee 1/5/10
SESD Treasurer

REVENUE             Method of         % Total    Amount      SESD Total
DESCRIPTION         Apportionment
Assessment          FY09 Budgeted       8.04%    2,113,067    26,274,659
Revenue             Apportionment
Member Refunds      Actual              0.00%           0    (2,902,075)
Paid
Chemical            District            7.93%      14,209       179,099
Reimbursements      Apportions
Sewer Rate Relief   Fixed Amount        0.00%           0             0
                    Budgeted for
                    Marblehead
                    Utilization
                    Balance
                    Apportioned
                    based on Appor.
                    Agree.
Septage Revenue     District            7.67%      17,631       229,914
                    Apportions
MWPAT Loan          Based on Cost       7.96%     643,500      8,089,179
Subsidies           Apportionment
                    Agreements
Interest Income,    Actual &            10.66%     23,272       218,398
Investment          District
Income              Apportions
                    Based on
                    Average
                    Monthly UFB
                    Balance
Energy Savings      Actual              8.23%       4,463        54,219
Revenue
Misc. Rev. &        Actual              11.26%      1,754        15,586
Other Income
Special             District            0.00%           0         5,231
Assessment          Apportions




                                  225
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Total Revenues                      8.76%      2,817,897    32,164,211
Expenses         Method of         % Total      Amount     SESD Total
Description      Apportionment
O & M 2000       Based on % of         0.00%          0        122,919
                 Flow
O & M 3000       Based on % of         0.00%          0        241,506
                 Flow
O & M 4000       Based on % of         0.00%          0         36,391
                 Flow
O & M 5000       Based on % of         0.00%          0        490,931
                 Flow
O & M 5001       Based on % of         0.00%          0             0
                 Flow
O & M 6000       Based on % of         7.67%     33,969        442,759
                 Flow
O & M 6001       Based on % of         0.00%          0             0
                 Flow
O & M 7000       Based on % of         8.03%    306,865      3,821,480
                 Flow
                 3 Yr. Avg. Flow
                 & Solids
O & M 7001       Based on % of         0.00%          0             0
                 Flow
                 3 Yr. Avg. Flow
                 & Solids
O & M 7050       Based on Cost         0.00%          0             0
                 Apportionment
                 Agreements
O & M 7100       Based on % of         0.00%          0         11,790
                 Flow
O & M 7200       Based on % of         0.00%          0         10,318
                 Flow
O & M 7300       Based on % of     100.00%        3,833          3,833
                 Flow

O & M 7400       Based on % of         0.00%          0         24,386
                 Flow




                                 226
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




O & M 7500   Based on % of      0.00%        0       8,227
             Flow
O & M 7600   Based on % of      0.00%        0      25,774
             Flow
O & M 7601   Based on % of      0.00%        0           0
             Flow
O & M 8010   Based on % of      8.03%   113,360   1,411,707
             Flow
             3 Yr. Avg. Flow
             & Solids
O & M 8011   Based on % of      0.00%        0           0
             Flow
             3 Yr. Avg. Flow
             & Solids
O & M 8020   Based on % of      7.47%   147,693   1,978,449
             Flow
             3 Yr. Avg. Flow
             & Solids
O & M 8021   Based on % of      0.00%        0           0
             Flow
             3 Yr. Avg. Flow
             & Solids
O & M 8030   Based on % of      7.67%    41,785    544,649
             Flow
             3 Yr. Avg. Flow
O & M 8031   Based on % of      0.00%        0           0
             Flow
             3 Yr. Avg. Flow
O & M 8040   Based on % of      8.78%   145,523   1,658,208
             BOD
O & M 8041   Based on % of      0.00%        0           0
             BOD
O & M 8060   Based on           8.08%   319,865   3,959,510
             Weighted % of
             BOD/TSS
O & M 8061   Based on           0.00%        0           0
             Weighted % of
             BOD/TSS




                          227
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




O & M 9000          Based on % of     100.00%       114,164      114,164
                    Flow
Special             Actual                0.00%           0            0
Assessment
Principal-Long      Based on Cost         7.61%     597,066     7,843,511
Term                Apportionment
                    Agreements
Interest-Long       Based on Cost         6.99%     173,237     2,479,620
Term                Apportionment
                    Agreements
MWPAT Loan          Based on Cost         7.96%     643,500     8,089,179
Subsidies           Apportionment
                    Agreements
MWPAT               Based on Cost         7.94%      11,261      141,813
Administrative      Apportionment
Fees                Agreements
Interest-Short      Based on Cost         0.00%           0            0
Term                Apportionment
                    Agreements
Debt Expense-       Based on Cost         0.00%          68          765
Origination Fees    Apportionment
                    Agreements
Lieu of Taxes       Based on Cost         11.25%     56,266      500,000
                    Apportionment
                    Agreements
Intergovernmental   Based on Cost         0.00%           0            0
Fines               Apportionment
                    Agreements
Stabilization       Based on % of         0.00%           0            0
                    3 Yr. Avg of
                    Flow & Solids
Transfer to CPF's   Actual                0.00%           0            0

Misc. Expense  Actual                     0.00%            0            0
Total Expenses                            7.97%    2,708,454   33,961,889
EXCESS (DEFICIENCY)                                  109,443
REVENUES OVER EXPENSES




                                    228
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                      ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS


The Zoning Board of Appeals met in regular session in 2009, conducting (i) 64
advertised hearings, granting 59 applications, denying 1, and allowing 4 to
withdraw; and (ii) 13 non-advertised administrative hearings for minor
modifications to previous special permits.

The Board members are: Barbara Shefftz, David Tubridy, Alan Lipkind, Karen
Tenenbaum and William R. Moriarty. The alternates are Christopher Casey,
Andrea Papanek, Betsy Burke-Jacobson and Paige Hintlian.

Special thanks to Andrea Flaxer and Steve Ware.

Respectfully submitted,


William R. Moriarty
Chair




                                      229
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                         SCHOOL DEPARTMENT
                              Feb. 2010
                   MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE

                 Patricia Blackmer          Term Expires May, 2011
                 EuRim Chun                 Term Expires May, 2012
                 Amy Drinker                Term Expires May, 2010
                 Jonathan Lederman          Term Expires May, 2010
                 Dick Nohelty               Term Expires May, 2011

                                ORGANIZATION
                         Chairperson      Dick Nohelty
                         Vice-Chairperson Amy Drinker
                         Secretary        Patricia Blackmer

                              REGULAR MEETINGS

The regular meetings of the School Committee are held in the High School Library
bi-monthly at 7:30 p.m. on the first and third Thursdays of the month except in July
and August.

                   MARBLEHEAD SCHOOLS ON THE WEB

Additional information about all Marblehead Public Schools programs can be found
on the internet site at: http://www.marbleheadschools.org

                        ADMISSIONS REQUIREMENTS

Entrance Age: Any child who will be six years of age on or before August 31 of that
school year may be admitted to the primary unit during the month of September. No
child ineligible for the primary unit in September shall be admitted during the
school year. The minimum age for entering the kindergarten shall be five years on
or before August 31 of that school year.

Children entering school for the first time are required to present a birth certificate,
a physical exam (including vision screening for distance visual acuity and
stereopsis) completed within 12 months prior to the date of school entry, and
documentation of immunizations. All children must be immunized against polio;
diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (DTaP); measles, mumps and rubella (MMR); varicella




                                         230
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




(chicken pox); and hepatitis B. Exemptions from immunizations are allowed under
Commonwealth of Massachusetts Law for either religious or medical reasons, both
of which require documentation.

                          SIGNALS FOR NO SCHOOL

No school announcements will be made over radio, television channels 4, 5 and 7,
on the Marblehead Public Schools website at http://www.marbleheadschools.org as
well as through email and phone messages with the AlertNow system. Telephone
calls should not be made to the Police or Fire Departments.

Since widely varying conditions in the various parts of Marblehead may make it
difficult to reach decisions about inclement weather conditions, parents are
requested to exercise their discretion in regard to their own children's attendance.

                           2009-10 SCHOOL HOURS
                   High School         7:55 a.m. to 2:37 p.m.
                   Middle School       8:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
                   Village School      8:00 a.m. to 2:15 p.m.
                   Glover, Gerry, Bell 8:15 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
                   Eveleth, Coffin     8:05 a.m. to 2:20 p.m.




                  SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS

The Marblehead Public School District moves into its fourth year of implementation
of the Instructional Focus designed to improve student achievement. Our students
continue to excel academically, artistically and athletically. Our students continue
to make us proud.

Students benefit from our aggressive teacher training and professional development
program. Over the last three years, our teachers have engaged in and completed
training in Responsive Classroom, Philosophy, Non-fiction Writing, Skillful
Thinking, Creative Classroom and Inquiry Based Learning (Socratic Questioning).
The culture of our schools has changed in the last three years as faculty and students
benefit from the implementation of these programs.




                                        231
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Student attitudes of inquisitiveness, creativity, truth-seeking and a keenness of mind
(Critical and Creative Thinking) continue to expand and prepare each student to
solve complex problems. As students develop these attitudes, students acquire a
“Critical Spirit.” The 2011 budget will continue to move our school system toward
its educational goals. The School Committee and I are grateful to our teachers,
teacher leaders, administrators and parent volunteers for their service to our students
in 2010.

The 2011 school budget is our fourth level-services budget in a row. This budget
anticipates 14% less state aid and 5% less local revenue from the Town of
Marblehead. We are grateful to the Town of Marblehead for its continued support
of budget increases to fully fund salaries and benefits for our staff. This year’s 2011
budget proposal covers all existing contractual obligations once again.

The 2011 budget proposal is $27,942,326.00, which is $520,776.00 more than the
FY10 amount of $27,421,550.00. This equals an increase of 1.89%. This proposal
is submitted before the completion of negotiations with all staff. Contract
negotiations continue as I write this report. It is my hope that a contract agreement
will soon be reached.

Once again this year, the administration has cut existing 2010 programs and reduced
current 2010 positions to allow the 2011 educational program to grow. The 2011
proposed budget reflects 2.5 less administrative positions for a savings of
$237,000.00 and a $100,000.00 reduction in special education programming.
Savings from teacher retirements, as well as new tuition income from special
education, provide additional revenue needed to continue our educational program
in 2011.

Within the 2011 proposed budget, we reallocate funds from the aforementioned
2010 budget to reinforce the Marblehead Public Schools strategic “Instructional
Focus” in 2011. The priorities that follow are the fundamental additions the
Superintendent is recommending to the School Committee for consideration:

Class Size
Class size will be maintained or improved, especially at the Village School and
MVMS. The High School will implement three new programs in Wellness, Social
Studies and Study Skills which will assist in reducing the number of students in
study halls as well as improve class sizes.




                                         232
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




MPS Instructional Focus Year #4
Year #4 of our MPS Instructional Focus is funded in the proposed budget. Creative
Classroom and Skillful Thinking training programs are fully funded in this budget.
A .5 Spanish program is added at Grade 4 as well as the completion of our “hands
on” Harcourt Science program in Grades 3 and 4. The PinPoint Math program is
fully funded in Grades 2, 3, 4 and 5 in this budget. This program assists students
having difficulty in math. All textbooks and instructional materials are funded in
this budget. This budget adds additional teacher leadership positions and stipends at
the K-6 level. Finally, we complete the purchase of textbooks and supplies for our
early childhood (K-4) Explicit Instruction Program in reading, writing, math and
comprehension areas in the proposed budget. We accomplish this be reallocating
funds.

Special Education Program
Funding the Special Education Program has been a challenge in the budgeting
process this year, primarily due to the midyear cuts by the Commonwealth to our
2010 reimbursement funds in the amount of $200,000.00. We have had to reduce
spending in other areas to cover these cuts within our budget and fund
approximately $200,000.00 for operations. Our proposed budget answers this
challenge through a combination of cuts, added tuition from students with special
needs new to our District, and Federal Stimulus funds.

Building Repair and Construction Projects
Buildings and maintenance projects continue to be priorities in the District. I thank
the Town for its continued support of the Village Repair Project. This construction
project is progressing very well with the first phase complete and the second phase
underway. I thank Michael Rockett, Chairman of the Village Building Oversight
Committee and all the members of this committee for their hard work and oversight.

I thank the members of the Glover School Building Committee for their work on the
Feasibility Study. The results of the Feasibility Study will be presented to the
Massachusetts School Building Authority for approval in March. The Town will
consider a warrant article for appropriating funds to support the Glover/Eveleth
School Building Project at Town Meeting, followed by a debt exclusion override
vote in June. The town is eligible for at least 40% reimbursement of approved costs
associated with the project.

Federal Stimulus Funds
We anticipate Federal Stimulus money coming for the fiscal year in 2011. Because
this is revenue anticipated for only one year, we will budget one-time expenditures




                                        233
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




with these federal dollars. The great majority of funds will be spent in the Special
Education and Title I areas. We intend to use these funds to cover the cuts in
Special Education reimbursements, the costs of out of district Special Education
placements, one time textbook and instructional material orders and teachers’
training and professional development programs. Special Education salaries for
summer programming are funded using these funds but will need to be reallocated
to the operational budget in 2012.

Contract negotiations continue with faculty and staff at this writing. We all
continue to bargain in good faith, recognizing the reality of the economic times. It
is my hope that new contracts will be agreed upon soon.

Again, on behalf of the School Committee and our schools, I wish to thank the
Town for its continued support of the education of our students. Our primary goal
is growth in student achievement. Our Instructional Plan is growing within our
schools giving students the tools, as well as the “learning attitudes” necessary for
solving the complex problems of today and the future. I have the greatest
confidence in our Marblehead students. I appreciate your continued support.

Respectively submitted,
Dr. G. Paul Dulac
Superintendent of Schools



MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Report to the Town, February, 2010

     The Marblehead School Committee’s three primary responsibilities are the
hiring and supervision of the Superintendent of Schools, the approval and oversight
of the Marblehead Public School district’s budget, and the creation and oversight of
school policy. Working closely with Superintendent Dr. G. Paul Dulac to optimize
the appropriate allocation of the school budget, the School Committee strives not
only to balance the needs of individual students, schools, and programs with the
overall direction and priorities of the district, but to live within the town’s financial
means. The School Committee continually seeks the advice, support and partnership
of the town’s many and various stakeholders including the Marblehead community,
parents, students, teachers and school administration in order to increase our ability
to make sound and sustainable decisions.




                                          234
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




          The School Committee continues its support of Superintendent Dulac’s
focus on developing Critical Spirit in all students to ensure that they have the
necessary skills to pursue their goals in the competitive global market. This vision
distinguishes Marblehead as one of the top performing school districts in
Massachusetts. In the fall of 2008, the School Committee revised its vision and
mission statements to reflect Critical Spirit/Instructional Focus as the cornerstones
for its decision-making guidelines. We continue to support the implementation of
the Instructional Focus within our district. For additional information regarding
Critical Spirit and the Instructional Focus, please visit the district website at
Marblehead.com/schools/ and click on the “Superintendent” link in the left-hand
column.

Marblehead Public Schools Vision Statement: To develop in our students a
Critical Spirit: the mastery of disciplines, creativity, inquisitiveness, a truth-seeking
disposition and a keenness of mind.

Marblehead Public Schools Instructional Mission Statement: The Marblehead
Public Schools will implement the educational programs and classroom best-
practices outlined in the district’s Instructional Focus as the means to develop in all
Marblehead students the attitudes and dispositions of a Critical Spirit.

MPS School Committee Mission Statement:
In all its decisions (policy, budget, and oversight of the Superintendent), the School
Committee will support the implementation and sustainability of the Instructional
Focus, which is the means to developing a Critical Spirit in each student.

         The School Committee’s budget deliberations for FY11 are based on
maintaining level services and meeting current contractual obligations. The
Governor’s midyear FY10 cuts to local aid and circuit breaker credits exacerbate the
pressure on both the town and school budgets. Across the state, municipalities face
escalating health insurance costs coupled with limited revenue streams, creating an
austere fiscal climate for collective bargaining. The current Marblehead teachers’
contract expired in August, 2009. The Marblehead Education Association and the
School Committee continue to bargain in good faith and the teachers have continued
to provide a high caliber education to our students. The School Committee’s goal is
to keep educators’ salaries competitive in order to attract and retain high caliber
professionals while maintaining quality educational services. A delicate balance
must be found between offering competitive salaries and living within the town’s
financial means.




                                          235
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




        The School Committee continues to address its building facility needs
through diligent maintenance and carefully planned capital projects, including the
following initiatives currently underway:

1) The Village School: In May, 2008, the Massachusetts School Building Authority
(MSBA) qualified the $21.7M Village School repair project for up to 40% state
reimbursement. After May Town Meeting approval and passage of a debt exclusion
override in June, 2008, the Village Building Oversight Committee (VBOC)
followed MSBA procedures and hired an architectural firm and an owner’s project
manager (OPM) in order to execute necessary drawings, schedule and procurement
documents in order to begin infrastructure repairs in February, 2009. In December,
2008, the 6th grade was moved from the Village School to the Middle School in
order to vacate the Village School’s one-story wing, where Phase I construction
work was completed in December 2009. Grades 4 and 5, along with administrative
and support staff offices, moved back to the single floor building and addition
located on Village Street. Phase II repair to the three story building has begun and is
expected to be completed by September 2010 allowing for the return of our sixth
grade students to the Village Street location. The extensive preparations to date
have been successfully implemented thanks to the dedicated efforts of school
personnel working in concert with the VBOC, chaired by volunteer Michael
Rockett. For further information regarding the Village project, please visit the
district website at Marbleheadschools.org/committees/ and click on the “Village
School Project” link.

2) Glover School: May 2008 Town Meeting approved funding for the Glover
School Feasibility Study which will identify the most financially responsible and
educationally sound solution to its facility needs. A $395,000 debt exclusion
override was passed in June, 2008. Per MSBA requirements, the Glover Building
Oversight Committee hired an OPM to act as a building expert for the district, as
well as a designer, who will provide architectural expertise to the district throughout
the Feasibility Study phase. The Glover School Building Committee, chaired by
Patricia Blackmer of the School Committee, is working closely with the MSBA to
get approval of a preferred option for the building of a new school building on
either the Glover or Eveleth site for 425 students in one building on one sight. The
GBOC is aggressively working within the MSBA process and timeframes in order
to meet our town meeting schedule and qualify for the highest possible state
reimbursement. For further information regarding the Glover project, please visit
the district website at Marbleheadschools.org/committees/ and click on the “Glover
School Project” link.




                                         236
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




3) Gerry School: This facility, now 103 years old, is aging gracefully but showing
its age nonetheless. Ongoing work is necessary to address securing exterior wood
components, re-pointing of portions of the brick façade, and fixing leaks in the slate
roof. The School Department will continue to be a responsible steward for this
school in anticipation of the time when the Gerry School can be submitted to the
MSBA as the district’s priority; then the collaborative process between the district
and the MSBA will identify the most financially responsible and educationally
sound solution to its facility needs.

4) Technology Master Planning Committee: Our district’s technology within the
schools continues to age and require updating and maintenance. In order to more
effectively meet to continuing needs that technology creates, we have established a
Technology Sub-Committee of educators, students, parents and community
members all of whom have skills and experiences capable of a collaborative study
of the needs and the development of a Master Plan document which can serve as the
blueprint for our technology strategy going forward. For further information
regarding the Technology Sub-Committee, please visit the district website at
Marbleheadschools.org/committees/ and click on the “Technology Committee” link.

The Marblehead School Committee is appreciative of the generosity of the many
parent groups, community members and local businesses that support our schools.
The Friends of Marblehead Public Schools continues to provide significant financial
support for innovative education through its grants. Other private foundations also
provide significant support to school programs. The School Committee remains
fully committed to providing a quality education for Marblehead’s students, while
delivering a fiscally responsible budget to the taxpayers. Public education is a
responsibility that challenges us to strive for excellence within our community’s
fiscal means, accessing state and federal funds whenever possible.

Respectfully submitted,
Dick Nohelty, Chairman
Marblehead School Committee




                                        237
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




             MARBLEHEAD PUBLIC SCHOOLS PERSONNEL
                      ADMINISTRATION


Name                               Position                         Telephone
Dr. G. Paul Dulac         Superintendent of Schools                 639-3141
         Carmen Darisse            Supt. Administrative Assistant
Jonathan Goldfield        Business Manager                          639-3140
         Kerry O’Shaughnessy       Personnel Secretary
         Christine Curtin          Payroll Secretary
         Mary Valle                Bookkeeper
         Kathy Gallagher           Accounts Payable Secretary
Steve Medeiros            Supt. Assistant to Special Projects       639-3146
Robert Bellucci           Dir. of Student Services and              639-3148
                                   Program Accountability
         Joya Pezzuto              Spec. Ed. Secretary
Sue Gee                   High School Interim Principal             639-3100
         Margo Ivers               Principal’s Secretary
Kristina Kyles            HS Asst. Principal of Instruction         639-3100
                                   & Curriculum (.5)
Sean McNiff               HS Asst. Principal
         Anne Bontaites            HS Asst. Principals’ Secretary
Elizabeth Moore           Middle School Principal                   639-3120
         Donna Carey               Principal’s Secretary
Kilmer Sweazy             Middle School Assistant Principal         639-3120
Michael Hanna             Village School Principal                  639-3159
         Melody Worthley           Principal’s Secretary
Danielle Cherry           Village School Assistant Principal        639-3159
Tom Desjardins            Bell School Principal                     639-3170
         Gayle Louisos             Principal’s Secretary
Sean Satterfield          Coffin/Gerry Schools’ Principal           639-3180
         Linda Mills               Principal’s Secretary
Mary Devlin               Glover/Eveleth Schools’ Principal         639-3190
         Barbara Hawlena           Principal’s Secretary
Mike Plansky              Athletic Director                         639-3100
         Patricia Magee            Secretary Athletic Dept.
Francois Fils-Aime        METCO Director                            639-3100
Beth Delforge             Fine Arts Curriculum Director             639-3100
Martha Bedrosian          K-12 Science Curriculum Director          639-3100
Kristina Kyles            Curriculum Director Coordinator (.5)      639-3146




                                       238
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Sue Gravel                 K-6 ELA & World Cultures Coordinator      639-3159
Kathy Comeau               Technology Director                       639-3100
Paula Dobrow               Lead Nurse                                639-3147
Richard Matthews           Director of Facilities                    639-3120
Tara Hatala                Food Services Director                    639-3100
Karen Bourgeault           Grants Coordinator                        639-3148
Katherine Farrell          Data Specialist                           639-3160
Patricia Armstrong         Sped, Autism Specialist                   639-3143
Nancy Bryson               High School Special Ed Chairperson        639-3110
Janine Glabicky            Sped Chair Inclusion Grds.4-8             639-3165
Maureen Smith              Sped Chair Special Programs PreK-8        639-3148
Nancy Charest              Early Childhood Coord. and                639-3170
                                    Sped Chair Inclusion PreK-3

                            FACULTY AND STAFF

Name                                        Current Assignment

Adams, Diana                                Custodian
Adams, Bethany                              PACE
Addis, David                                Tutor, Sped
Agostini-Sheridan, Susan                    Tutor, Reading
Alla, Joyce                                 Tutor, Title 1 Reading
Allen, Cynthia                              Para, Sped Gr 4
Alling, Matthew                             FL Latin
Alvarez-Dobrusin, Alisa                     Para, Sped
Alves, Lisa                                 Para, Sped and Lunch
Amsden, Valerie                             Tutor, Sped
Anderson, Sharon                            Tutor, Sped
Anderson, Martha                            Cafeteria
Anderson, Robin                             Social Worker
Andrews, Lisa                               Para, Sped and Lunch
Andrews, Laura                              Tutor, Sped
Angelopolus, Adam                           Grade 6
Antonucci, Deborah                          Sped, 7-8 Lang Based
Apostoloff, Kimberly                        Para, Sped
Armstrong, Cory                             Para, Sped/Lunch
Arnould, Carol                              Grade 2
Arthur, Elena                               Nurse
Audibert, Kathryn                           Cafeteria




                                      239
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Babbitt, Diane                        Kindergarten
Bach, Janet                           Sped Integ 2
Bailey, Marguerite                    Cafeteria
Baker, Amie                           Phys Ed
Balboni, Robert                       Custodian
Barrell, Maribeth                     Sped, Res Rm
Barrett, Melissa                      Tutor, Reading
Barry, Judith                         Cafeteria
Barton, O'Malley                      Math
Battle, Jennifer                      Guidance Counselor
Beaulieu, Judith                      Art
Beckman, Rachel                       Grade 1
Beechwood, Justin                     Tutor, Sped STEPS
Belli, Natalie                        Gr 5 Lang Arts/SS
Bellucci, Robert                      Director of Student Services
Benton, Danielle                      Tutor, ABA
Berg, Robin                           Grade 2
Bergeron, Leroy                       Custodian
Bergeron, Kerry                       Grade 2
Bernhardt, Terri                      Psychologist
Best, Kimberly                        Tutor, Reading
Bial, Lisa                            Tutor, Wilson Reading
Billings, Jennifer                    English
Bishop, Kathleen                      Tutor, Sped
Blake, Constance                      Grade 1
Blanchard, Gianna                     Grade 2
Blodgett, Amanda                      Grade 6 Math/Science
Bonneau, Nicole                       Social Worker
Boroda, Stefan                        Para, Therapeutic Gr 7
Bosken, Lindsay                       Grade 1 Supported
Bottiggi, Carolyn                     ABA Tutor
Bouchard, Jacqueline                  Tutor, Sped
Bowden, Denise                        Math, Gr 7
Bowden, Catherine                     Para, Lunch
Bowen, Adam                           Grade 3
Bowen, Virginia                       Library Media Specialist
Bowler, Kathleen                      Grade 3
Boyce, Leslie                         Para, Sped
Brand, Rebecca                        K-3 Reading Specialist
Branham, Kristy                       Behavior Specialist




                                240
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Breed, Nancy                           Para, Kdg/Lunch
Breed, Mary                            Phys Ed
Brennan, Dana                          Grade 5
Brenner, Nicole                        Sped, STRIDES
Broughton, Alison                      Para, Sped
Buganski, Melissa                      Spanish
Buono, Anna                            English
Buonopane, Kathy                       Computer Support
Buonopane, Susan                       Sped, 8 Inclusion
Bushman, Molly                         Tutor, Math
Butters, Bryan                         Social Studies
Butterworth, Susan                     Grade 8 English
Byrne, Katherine                       Chemistry
Calahan, Robin                         Para, Sped
Callaghan, Tawny                       Science, Grade 7
Callaghan, Mario                       Social Studies
Callahan, Meghan                       COTA
Campbell, Pamela                       Para, Sped
Carey, Cathy                           Tutor, Sped
Carpenito, Nichole                     Art .8FTE
Carroll, Linda                         Para, Clerical
Castoldi, Catherine                    Gr 9 Res Room
Cavanagh, Maureen                      Tutor, Reading
Cecere, Michael                        Phys Ed
Cefalo, Carla                          Health
Chacon, Fabio                          Custodian
Chalek, Wendy                          Tutor, Lang. Based
Chalifour, Edythe                      Cafeteria
Chavez, Jennifer                       Latin
Chaykowski, Christine                  Guidance Counselor
Christensen, Henry                     Tech Ed
Ciccone, Amy                           Para, Clerical
Clark, Lora                            Grade 4
Clayman, Sally                         Para, STEPS
Cleary, Elizabeth                      Para, Sped
Clements, Scott                        Custodian
Clough, Patrice                        English
Clough, Linda                          Para, Sped
Cohen, Craig                           Tutor, Sped ABA
Cohen, Donna                           Tutor, Sped




                                 241
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Colby, Stephanie                    Library Media Specialist
Coleman, Rosalind                   Para, Sped and Lunch
Colfer, Robert                      Social Studies
Colon, Mildred                      Para, Sped
Comeau, Ronald                      Maint, Electrician
Comins, Brenda                      Cafeteria
Conley, Karen                       Grade 3
Convery, Lauren                     Para, Sped
Cooney, Constance                   Grade 5
Costonis, Christina                 Grade 6
Cowan, Judith                       Tutor, Sped
Coyle, Carolyn                      Grade 1
Criswell, Maryann                   English
Croke, Deborah                      ABA/Home Tutor
Cronan, Elizabeth                   Para, Sped
Cronin, Lenore                      Kindergarten
Crosby, Rosemary                    Nurse
Crowley, Brian                      Social Studies
Cruz, Claridalia                    Spanish, .5
Culhane-Herman, Catherine           Nurse
Cullen, Deborah,                    Nurse
D'Amelio, Danielle                  Kindergarten
D'Amour, Eileen                     Music
Dana, Gregory                       Math
Darci, Maureen                      Kindergarten
Darling, Kara                       Tutor, Sped Language Based 4/5
Dartley Rocco, Maura                Wellness
Davidson, Gail                      Cafeteria
Davis-Allan, Ann                    Sped, 7 Inclusion
Dawes, Elizabeth                    Sped, Acad Skills
Dawes, Edmund                       Science, Engineering
DeBerardinis, Debora                Physical Therapy Assistant
DeFranco, Gloria                    Para, Sped and Lunch
Deiana, Dawna                       Grade 4 Inclusion
Delano, Judith                      Para, Lunch
Delman, Renee                       Kindergarten, Integrated
Denis, Margaret                     Cafeteria
Devanney, Amanda                    Guidance Counselor
Dewing, James                       Custodian Asst Head
Dewing, Diane                       Cafeteria




                              242
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Dexter, Lesley                      Tutor, Sped
Dickenson, Stephen                  Math - Title I
DiGiammarino, Jennifer              Tutor, Math
Dill, Estelle                       Academic Skills Grade 6
Dillon, Robert                      English
Dixon, Lelia                        Grade 4
Doane, Marilyn                      Para, Clerical
Doben, Maggie                       Grade 2
Dodge, Elizabeth                    Tutor, Sped
Doughman, Cathy                     Para, Lunch
Douglass, James                     Custodian
Dow, Brian                          Art .8FTE
Drummond, Ellen                     Grade 1
Duffy, Brianne                      Spanish
Duffy, Amy                          Grade 2
Duncan, Sharon                      Para, Sped and Lunch
Eaton, Allison                      Guidance Counselor
Edwards, Kathleen                   Tech Ed/Family Consumer
Eisenhower, Kay                     Grade 8
Elmer, Kara                         Guidance Counselor
Elterich, Kristen                   Psychologist
Emblidge, Jennifer                  Biology
Emond, Christine                    Tutor, Sped
Ericsson, Thomas                    Science, Biology
Erikson, Melissa                    Grade 3
Erskine, Kimberly                   Physical Therapist
Evans, Vanessa                      Spanish
Fairbanks, Lee-Anne                 Grade 1
Fallon, Lois                        Secretary Guidance
Fargo, Eric                         Phys Ed
Feins, Robin                        English
Feraco, Nadine                      Inclusion Grade 5
Ferris, Linda                       Para, Kdg/Lunch/Bus
Ferris, Kathryn                     Band
Finnegan, Jennifer                  Sped, Res Rm .5
Finn-Welch, Ellen                   Sped. Spch&Lang Therapist
Fischer, Susan                      Grade 5 Inclusion
Fishman, Lindsay                    Grade 5
Fitzgerald, Judith                  Cafeteria
Flynn, Bridget                      Para, Sped/Lunch




                              243
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Forero, Martha                       Custodian
Forward, Maura                       Grade 4
Foye, Kristy                         Strings, 4-12
Frankel, Dara                        Tutor, Reading
Frankhouser, Joann                   Psychologist
Fraser, Holly                        Music
Frawley, Patricia                    Sped, PK-K SAILS
Freeto, June                         Cafeteria
Friedrich, Jennifer                  Chemistry
Futcher, Edward                      Math
Gallinelli, Robert                   Grade 8 Science
Gallinelli, Bethany                  Tutor, Sped
Galper, Michelle                     Tutor, Sped
Garrett, Karen                       Tutor, Sped
Garry, Benjamin                      Language Based
Gaskell, Marian                      Tutor, Sped
Gatchell, Douglas                    Custodian Nights
Gauthier, Allan                      Guidance Counselor
Gay, Betsy                           Kindergarten
Geary, Joan                          Science
Geraghty, Anne                       Sped, Spch&Lang Asst
Giardi, Michael                      Math
Gilbert, Rebecca                     Sped, Inclusion
Gilligan, Amy                        Para, Clerical and Lunch
Goering, Kathryn                     Speech & Language 1.0FTE
Goldner, Paul                        Physics
Goodwin, Darlene                     Para, Sped
Goodwin, Josene                      Cafeteria
Gora, Diane                          Grade 1
Gorman, Kelly                        Para, Sped
Graziano, Angela                     Grade 2
Greeley, Elizabeth                   Cafeteria
Green, Joseph                        Custodian
Greenberg, Mindi                     Spanish
Guerrido, Annelly                    Tutor, 1:1 Sped
Guider, F.                           Math
Gunter, Cassandra                    METCO Bus Monitor/clerical
Gurman, Martha                       Sp/Lang. .8FTE
Guthartz, Randy                      Art
Guttadauro, Jae                      FL Spanish




                               244
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Halks, Judith                         Library Media Speciaist
Hall, Phyllis                         Cafeteria
Hall, Faith                           Grade 3
Halvorsen, Alice                      Grade 6
Hamilton, Anne                        Para, METCO Clerical
Hamilton, Monica                      Para, Sped
Hanifey, Patricia                     Para, Clerical
Hanson, Cara                          Music
Harmon, Paul                          English
Hart, Mary Ellen                      Literacy Academic Coach
Haskell, William                      Custodian
Hastings, Rebecca                     Para, Kdg and Lunch
Hecht, Elizabeth                      Kindergarten
Heenan, Brian                         Science, Biology
Heller, Jonathan                      Grade 6
Herchenhahn, Mary                     Art, Elementary .8FTE
Herrick, Cheryl                       Sped, 9 Resource Room
Hertz, Amy                            Para, Sped
Hicks, Patrick                        Tutor, Sped
Higgins, Thomas                       English
Hill, Jennifer                        Custodian
Hirshberg, Matthew                    Social Studies
Hobson, Alexandra                     Grade 5 Math/Science
Holbrook, Susan                       Sped Res Room
Holtzman, Sally                       Para, Sped/Lunch
Hughes, Anna                          Tutor, Reading
Hughes, Kenneth                       Custodian/Bus Driver
Humphrey, Melissa                     Social Studies
Hunter, Mary Jane                     Para, Sped
Hyde, Timothy                         Tutor, Special Education
Hyte, Alyson                          Para Math/Science
Ingram, Casey                         Grade 3
Introini, Jessica                     Grade 4
Jackson, Jacklyn                      Cafeteria
Jalbert, Jean                         Custodian, Head
James, Lynda                          Grade 4
Janock, Heidi                         Grade 2
Jesoraldo, Christine                  Para, Sped
Johnson, Beth                         Grade 2
Johnson, Carol                        Social Worker




                                245
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Johnston, Elisa                     Tutor, Sped
Jones, Bethan                       English
Jones, Paula                        Grade 2
Jones-Tentendo, Marylyn             Para, Kdg/Lunch
Joy, Katie                          Tutor, Sped
Joyce, Michael                      Permanent Substitute
Juncker, Henry                      Social Studies
Kakulu, Cyril                       METCO Liaison
Kalfin, Gale                        Sped Grade 11 Resource
Kalpin, David                       Math
Kaltsas, Eleni                      Cafeteria
Kamin, Shelley                      Sped Clerk
Kannally, Timothy                   Grade 4
Karns, Brigitte                     Grade 8
Kavanagh, Joan                      Sped, Lang Based
Kelley, Liam                        Custodian
Kennedy, Patricia                   Cafeteria
Keroack, Maria                      Tutor, ELL
Knight, Katherine                   Para, Kdg and Lunch
Knowlton, Nancy                     Para, Sped
Kolsky, Robert                      Custodian
Korodi, Nicole                      Grade 3
Kraft, Ali                          Tutor, Sped
Kritikos, Alexis                    Tutor, Sped
Kunzer, Julie                       STEPS Grade 6/7
Kuszmar, Linda                      Para, Clerical
Lallas, Catherine                   Guidance Counselor
Lamby, Juanita                      Guidance Counselor
Land, Howard                        Bus Driver/Custodian
Landergan, Catherine                Tech Ed
Landy, Eileen                       Tutor, Reading
Lane, Cortney                       Sped, Inclusion
Lavender, Michael                   Phys Ed
Lavoie, Scott                       Custodian
Lavoie, Susan                       Tutor, Reading
Leap, Jeanette                      Para, Kdg and Lunch
LeBlanc, JoAnne                     Para, Clerical and Lunch
LeBlanc, Mary                       Grade 6
LeClerc, Mary                       Para, Clerical
L'Ecuyer, Lindsay                   Chemistry




                              246
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




LeFleur, Sandra                      Sped, Int Preschool
Legget, Donna                        Para,Sped
Lehman, Karen                        Photography
Lemieux, Robert                      Custodian
Lemieux, Jody                        Tutor, Reading
Leslie, Margery                      Tutor, Sped
Leverone, Amy                        Tutor, Sped
Little, Luana                        Grade 7
Lonergan, Barbara                    Para, 1:1 Sped
Long, Glenn                          Custodian, Head
Lothrop, Janet                       Para, Sped, Therapeutic
Lovely, Laura                        Grade 7
Luise, Judy                          Adjustment Counselor
Lutwak, Elizabeth                    Library/Media Specialist
Lydon, Maria                         Para, Kdg/Lunch
Maag, Tracy                          Permanent Substitute
MacDonald, Melissa                   Para, Sped
Mace, Jayne                          Para, Science Lab
Mace, Richard                        Custodian
Mack, Gail                           Academic Skills
Magana, Elmer                        Spanish
Maney, Martha                        Para, PreK
Margolis, Linda                      Grade 5
Masterson, Danielle                  Grade 6
Matuza, Sarah                        Grade 7 Math
McCarthy, Elizabeth                  Para, Lunch
McCarthy, Laura                      Grade 2
McEntee, Christine                   Para, Kdg and Lunch
McGrath, Danielle                    Phys Ed
McGrath, Kristen                     Nurse
McGuinnes, Melissa                   Grade 1
McIntosh, John                       Phys Ed
McKeever, Charles                    Custodian, Head
McKie, Maryann                       Secretary
McLaughlin, Janice                   Cafeteria
McLean, Gordon                       Math
McMahon, Maura                       Grade 3
McMahon, Julie                       Grade 5
McNamara, Mary                       Para, Gr 6 Sped
McNamee, Kathleen                    Access Program




                               247
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




McWilliams, Laurence                   Tutor, Sped
Medeiros, Steve                        Principal/Adm. Asst. for
                                       Special Projects
Mello, Rena                            Grade 4/5 Academic Skills
Mellor, Margaret                       Para, Kdg/Lunch
Merrill, Melissa                       Tutor, Reading
Metheny, S                             Para, Sped
Michaud, Maria                         Para, Sped and Lunch
Miles, Mary                            Grade 6
Miller, Joan                           Sped, 7 Inclusion
Millett, Michael                       Technology Network Manager
Minigiello, MaryBeth                   Para, Kdg/Lunch
Monaco, Merel                          Tutor, Sped
Moretto, Denise                        Psychologist
Morneau, Albert                        Maint, General
Moses-Farmer, Barbara                  Secretary
Moss, Maria                            Grade 1
Moya, Luz                              Para, Lunch
Mullarkey, Tracie                      Para, Sped
Murphy, Lisa                           Sped, Lang Based
Murphy, Philip                         Phys Ed
Murray, Dawn                           Nurse
Nash, Laura                            Grade 5
Neilson, Paula                         Kindergarten
Nelson, Todd                           Para, PACE
Nesbitt, Tracy                         Tutor, Reading
Neumann, Carol                         Tutor, Math
Newsome, Jeffrey                       Guidance Counselor
Nicosia, Jennifer                      Para, Lunch
Nohelty, Tammy                         Technology
Norman, Kristen                        Secretary, Student Activities
November, Donna                        Grade 3
O'Reilly, Debora                       Science, Chemistry
Pagano, Justin                         Computer Support Specialist
Page, Susan                            Para, Lunch
Page, Carolan                          Tutor, Math
Page, Harriett                         Science, Chemistry
Pasackow, Noah                         Grade 7 Social Studies
Pasquini, Monika                       Spanish
Payne, John                            Marine Technology




                                 248
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Pedro, Christopher                   Para, Sped
Perroni, Brenda                      Grade 1
Peters, Evonne                       Tutor, Sped
Peterson, Valerie                    Music
Phillips, Tammy                      Tutor, Sped
Phillips, Raymond                    Custodian
Piccini, Donna                       Para, Lunch
Pierce, Karen                        Sped Integ 3
Pierce, Stephen                      Art
Pillsbury, Susan                     Sped, Spch&Lang Path
Pittman, Alexander                   Physics
Pittore, Patrica                     Grade 2
Poisson, Frances                     Para, Clerical
Powell, Kathleen                     Tutor, Reading
Powers, Lauren                       Gr 4/5 STEPS
Price, Dawn                          Para, Lunch
Pruett, Elizabeth                    Grade 4
Pryce, Anneka                        Tutor, ABA
Pugh, Annie                          Grade 5
Purdin, Joy                          Grade 4
Queval, Pascale                      FL French
Quigley, Suzanne                     Tutor, Sped
Quillen, Lisa                        Grade 1
Quinn, Janet                         Tutor, Reading
Racki, James                         Custodian, Head
Raimer, Jennifer                     Grade 3
Raimo, Paulette                      Para, Preschool
Ranta, Mary Ellen                    Tutor, Sped
Ray, Paula                           Para, Sped
Reardon, Meredith                    Guidance Counselor
Restaino, Gina                       Sped, Access
Reulbach, Christina                  Tutor, Math and Lunch
Reynolds, Katherine                  Science, Gr 8
Ricardo-Gil, Joan                    Tutor, ELL
Richards, James                      Custodian
Rivera, Hope                         Para, Sped and Lunch
Robles, Javier                       Custodian
Rochford, Paige                      Occupational Therapist
Roeder, Amanda                       Music
Roeser, Kathleen                     Tutor, Reading




                               249
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Rombach, Jeannie                      Tutor, Sped
Rosenthal, Michele                    Tutor, ELL
Ross, William                         Van Driver/Custodian
Ross, Killeen                         Grade 4
Rothenberg, Suzanne                   Para, Sped
Rotman, Sandra                        Phys Ed
Rowe, Julie                           TIDES
Roy, Joyce                            Grade 4
Rudloff, James                        Sped, HS Therapeutic
Rudzinski, Elizabeth                  Kindergarten, Integrated
Rumson, Janet                         Grade 5
Russett, Kristen                      FL French
Ryan, Connor                          English
Ryan, Nicole                          Art
Ryan, Micheline                       Math
Rydzewski, Kenneth                    Sped, 12 Resource Room
Sands, Klara                          Latin
Sarnevitz, Shari                      Nurse
Schaffnit, James                      Grade 7
Schiller, Barbara                     Tutor, Reading
Scott, Anne                           Nurse
Scribner, Robert                      Custodian, Head
Scribner, Deborah                     Custodian, Head
Sevinor, Meryl                        Kindergarten
Sexton, Erica                         Grade 4
Shapiro, Mary                         Grade 1
Shatford, Susan                       Tutor, Sped and Lunch
Sheehan, Amy                          Secretary, Sped
Sheridan, Peter, Shop                 Carpentry
Sheridan, Frances                     Kindergarten
Shevory, Sally                        Grade 3
Sholds, Kristinia                     English
Shull, Williard                       Grade 7
Simard, Christine                     Cafeteria/Sped Van Monitor
Skalaban, Janice                      Business
Slattery, Margaret                    Sped Admin Assistant
Slattery-Sumner, Marjorie             Cafeteria
Slepian, Jane                         Para, Sped and Lunch
Sliney, Candice                       Spanish
Smith, Karen                          Tutor, Reading




                                250
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Smith, Kathryn                       Grade 8
Smith, Nancy                         Grade 3
Smith, Bethany                       Psychologist
Smullin, Rachel                      Sped, TIDES
Snow, Lyn                            Behavior Specialist
Softic, Gavin                        Tutor ABA, Sped
Soghomonian, Allison                 Library Media Specialist
Sojka, Szymon                        STEPS
Sommerstein, Ann                     Para, Sped
Song, Kendra                         Math
Soucy, Wendy                         FL-French, Senior Project
Spear, Susan                         Tutor, Sped
Spillane, Carol                      Kindergarten
Spinale, David                       Custodian/Van Driver
Steadman, Joanne                     Phys Ed
Steinberg, Sari                      Sped, Spch&Lang Path
Stevens, Caron                       Para, Sped and Lunch
Stoddard, Joseph                     Music
Stoll, Gayle                         Sped, Spch&Lang Path
Stomatuk, Joan                       Business
Stonecipher, Timothy                 Guidance Counselor
Stout, Rebecca                       Music
Stronach, Tara                       Tutor
Stuart, Bridget                      Tutor, Sped
Sugarman, Lisa                       Tutor, Reading
Sullivan, Sarah                      Language Based
Sumner, Gregory                      Custodian
Tangney, Matthew                     Social Studies
Taranto, Beth                        Para, Sped and Lunch
Tarmey, Mark                         Permanent Substitute
Tatirosian, Lynne                    Tutor Title I ELA
Tatterfield, Martha                  Cafeteria
Taverna-Dennis, Barbara              Sped Mod Sped Needs
Tejada, Lynne                        Cafeteria
Tentindo, Paul                       Psychologist
Terpos, Katherine                    Health
Thomas, Barbara                      Kindergarten
Thompson, Cynthia                    Para, Fine Arts Clerical
Thorne, Nancy                        Tutor, Math
Thornton, Susan                      Academic Skills




                               251
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Tirelli, Robert                       Music
Tobin, Catherine                      Para, Kdg/Lunch
Todd, Caroline                        English
Trainor, Stephanie                    Grade 6
Traynor, Veronica                     Para, Sped
Treff, Maria                          Tutor, Sped
Trunfio, Jane                         Physical Therapist
Tully, Frances                        Grade 1
Turcotte, Lindsay                     Grade 3
Venezia, Stephen                      Social Studies
Volpe, Stephen                        Grade 5
Vona, Mark                            Math
Wachtel, Kyle                         Phys Ed
Wahtera, Philo                        Grade 2
Wales, G. Herrick                     Grade 4 Inclusion
Wales, Susan                          Sped
Walker, David                         Tutor, Sped
Wallace, Anthony                      Physics
Ward, Laura                           Grade 5 Math/Science
Warren, Kenneth                       Music
Warren, Nathan                        Social Studies
Watt, Melanie                         COTA
Webster, Leigh                        Tutor, Sped
Weiss, Laura                          Resource.5FTE/Preschool .5FTE
Wentzell, Jean                        Sped Gr 8 Inclusion
West, Andrea                          FL French
Whittier, Dawn                        Para, Kindergarten
Wicks, Celine                         Grade 6
Wilkens, John                         Social Studies
Willard, Marilyn                      Para, Sped
Williams, Nancy                       Para, Clerical
Williams, Jillian                     Sped, TLC Program
Williams, Pamela                      Tutor, Academic Skills
Wilson, Janice                        Secretary, Guidance
Wilson, James                         Sped Resource Room
Wolff-Variam, Cheryl                  Tutor, Wilson Reading
Wood, Enid                            Cafeteria
Woodfin, Lonna                        Nurse
Worrick, Ann                          Tutor, Reading
Xiarhos, Kristin                      Special Education Teacher




                                252
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Yakubian, Elaine                              Para, Sped
Yanow, Brooke                                 Kindergarten
Zalanowski, David                             Physics
Zarni, Patricia                               Para, Sped
Zimmer, Wendy                                 Sped, Spch&Lang Path
Zolot, Jill, Tutor                            Sped Academic Skills




                            2009 MCAS SUMMARY

                             Longitudinal Summary
                 (percentage of students at each performance level)


                              Grade 3 System Wide

    Reading/ELA              2005      2006        2007      2008     2009
    Advanced                            38          26         28      26
    Proficient                 81       40          48         47      47
    Needs Improvement          16       21          21         21      23
    Warning/Failing            2         1          4          4       4
    Mathematics                        2006        2007      2008     2009
    Advanced                             6          30         37      28
    Proficient                          64          41         37      44
    Needs Improvement                   25          21         20      21
    Warning/Failing                      5          8          6       7




                                       253
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                         Grade 4

English/Lang.     2005     2006    2007   2008   2009
Arts
Advanced           14        8      18     13    20
Proficient         51       57      63     54    50
Needs              29       28     15     27     25
Improvement
Warning/Failing    6         7      4      6      5
Mathematics       2005     2006    2007   2008   2009
Advanced           21       19      21     26    20
Proficient         37       36      37     34    34
Needs              36       38     34     34     41
Improvement
                   7         8      8      6      5

Warning/Failing




                         254
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                         Grade 5

English/Lang.     2005    2006     2007   2008   2009
Arts
Advanced                   25       21     25     29
Proficient                 55       56     54     51
Needs                      15       19     18     16
Improvement
Warning/Failing            4        3      3      4
Mathematics       2005    2006     2007   2008   2009
Advanced                   30       33     42     26
Proficient                 36       41     29     42
Needs                      26       18     20     20
Improvement
Warning/Failing             8        8     10     12
Science & Tech.   2005    2006     2007   2008   2009
Advanced           18      18       18     26     28
Proficient         53      46       42     42     32
Needs              25      32       35     27     33
Improvement
Warning/Failing    4        4       5      5      7




                          255
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                               Grade 6

English/Lang. Arts      2005     2006    2007   2008   2009
Advanced                          20      17     28     31
Proficient                        64      69     57     54
Needs Improvement                 13      12     12     13
Warning/Failing                    3      2      3      3
Mathematics             2005     2006    2007   2008   2009
Advanced                 26       25      28     39     46
Proficient               36       41      42     40     32
Needs Improvement        24       23      24     14     16
Warning/Failing          14       11      6      7      6




                               Grade 7

English/Lang. Arts      2005      2006   2007   2008   2009
Advanced                 19        20     21     20     23
Proficient               66        64     69     71     62
Needs Improvement        13        14      8      8     13
Warning/Failing          2         2      1      2      2
Mathematics             2005      2006   2007   2008   2009
Advanced                           15     21     22     30
Proficient                         37     40     44     37
Needs Improvement                  35     30     27     24
Warning/Failing                    13      9      8      9




                                256
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                              Grade 8
Eng/Language Arts        2005     2006   2007   2008   2009
Advanced                           24     39     39     29
Proficient                         60     57     55     66
Needs Improvement                  13      2      6      4
Failing                             3      2      0      0
Mathematics              2005     2006   2007   2008   2009
Advanced                  31       34     36     43     40
Proficient                34       33     37     34     41
Needs Improvement         21       15     20     15     14
Warning/Failing           14       18      7      8      4
Science/Technology       2005     2006   2007   2008   2009
Advanced                   1       12      6      8      9
Proficient                46       50     49     59     61
Needs Improvement         43       28     40     28     25
Warning/Failing            9       11      6      4      4




                                257
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                               Grade 10

Eng/Language Arts       2005      2006    2007   2008   2009
Advanced                 43        17     44     39     53
Proficient               43        70     47     48     42
Needs Improvement        12        12      9     12      3
Warning/Failing          2          2      1      1      2
Mathematics             2005      2006    2007   2008   2009
Advanced                 53        54     67     60     71
Proficient               27        28     22     26     21
Needs Improvement        17        13     10     10      6
Warning/Failing          4          5      2      4      2
Science& Technology                              2008   2009
Advanced                                         34     33
Proficient                                       42     47
Needs Improvement                                19     16
Warning/Failing                                   5      3




                                  258
               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




              Scholastic Aptitude Test Scores (SAT)
                      Marblehead SAT Scores
                      Critical
      Year                               Math         Writing
                     Reading
      2006             552                563           550
      2007             554                554           548
      2008             550                553           543
      2009             561                582           559
                         AP Examinations
           YEAR                   2006      2007   2008     2009
# of Students                     163        128   158       135
                                  250        176    210      208
Total Grades reported
# of Subjects                      14         11    13       15
% Earning 3 or higher             75%       88%    81%      86%
               National Merit Scholarship Program
  Class of 2010 - 2 Semi-Finalists & 13 Commended Scholars
  Class of 2009 – 8 Commended Scholars
  Class of 2008 - 6 Commended Scholars
  Class of 2007 – 1 Semi-Finalist and 13 Commended Students

                 Advanced Placement Awards
     Class of 2008      12 AP Scholar Awards
                         5 AP Scholar with Honors Awards
                         9 AP Scholar with Distinction Awards

     Class of 2007        20 AP Scholar Awards
                          14 AP Scholar with Honors Awards
                           3 AP Scholar with Distinction Awards
                           1 AP National Scholar

         Post Secondary Report for the Class of 2009
         Size of Class                    225
         Percentage continuing education  92 %
            Attending 4 year Colleges     84 %
            Attending 2 year Colleges      8%
            Post Grad or Technical School  1%
            Military                       1%
         Percentage going into employment 6 %




                              259
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                             Class of 2009

                   Valedictorian: Ryan Elizabeth Heffrin

    Brendon Scott Abel                          Walker Pickering Cotton
*++ Elizabeth Akselrod                      +   Tayla Malone Curtis
+   Hailey Dwyre Armstrong                  *++ Justin Robert Dana
    Colby James Bates                       *++ Caitlin Diane Davis
    Nickolas Belesis                            Michael Tyler Decotis
*++ Maria Christine Bennett                 +   Elise Danielle DiPrisco
    Matthew Bennett-Fieman                      Kylie Elizabeth Diamont
    Kirk James Blaisdell                        Anthony Robert DiGiammarino
*++ Eric Michael Blattberg                      Aaron Henry Dinnes
    Sarah Umanita Bloom                         Christopher George Donahue
    Annie Elizabeth Boldys                      Sarah Werner Dowds
    Robert Scott Boynton                        Nicholas Brian Doyle-Elwell
    Edward Graham Breed                         Kaitlyn Marie Dudley
+   Julia Leigh Brenan                          Michael Allan Ehlert
*++ Stephanie Beth Brooks                   *++ Alec Saul Eidelman
    Benjamin Ian Bryant                         Sophie Betty Enman
+   Alexander Sherman Bulger                *++ Jacob Samuel Evanter
    Melissa Aragón Butler                       Aisling Catherine Fallon
*++ Christopher Michael Butterfield         +   Katherine Elizabeth Mary Fallon
    Zachary Nicholas Calmus                     Michael Braun Farrell
    Nicholas Joseph Capalbo                     Leah Katherine Femia
+   Connor Bradford Carey                   *++ Amy Elizabeth Finn-Welch
+   Douglas Charles Carey                       Sarah Cairns Fischer
+   Arielle Sarah Carrick                       Caitlin Ann Forbes
+   Jennifer Lynn Carroll                   *++ Morgan Rose Ford
    Christopher Cason                           George Taylor Forsgard
    Lia Anderson Castner                    +   Sarah Elizabeth Forward
    Samuel Robert Chalek                        Alesandra Nicole Forziati
    Wilesha Marie Cineus                        Nicholas Vincent Freddo
    Stephan C. Clarke                       *++ Gavin Spencer Frisch
    Abigail Lavin Clayman                   *++ Emily Amber Futcher
+   Benjamin Max Cohen                      *++ Madilyn Marisa Gamble
    Michael Robert Cohn                     *++ Jonathan Joseph Gammel
+   Daniel Charles Comeau                       Elizabeth Rose Geraghty
    Anthony DeShawn Corbin                  *++ Heather Margaret Giblin




                                      260
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




++    Heather Christine Gillispie               Kea Maria MacDonald
      Michael Murphy Glabicky             +     Brittany Williams Maxwell
      Calum Bryn Gridley                  +     Katherine Fletcher Maxwell
      Kurt Benjamin Grossman                    Daniel Shane McAndrews
      Emily Farrell Haggett                     Dylan James McCloskey
      Megan Rogers Haley                        Meaghan Patricia McDonald
      Nicholas Michael Haller                   Ian Scott McKinley
      Jon Erik Hancke                           Kelsea Marie McLean
      Alexander Paul Timothy Hare               Ryan Patrick McMahon
*++   James Victor Hark                   *++   Margaret Hastings McMullen
      Zachary Gordon Harris                     Elias Odinn Medina
*++   Ryan Elizabeth Heffrin                    Ashley Marie Mendes
      Jessica Claire Helmes               *++   Cory Mitchell Meyer
+     Kathleen Pike Herlihy                     Thomas David Millett IV
+     Victoria May Hermann                      Ariel Avrham Marcus Minelli
      Maxwell Daley Hill                        Anastasiya Miroshnikova
      Katherine Mary Holian                     Hamilton Gabriel Moguea
      Joseph Fredrick Holland                   Kathleen Marie Monaco
+     Kathryn Meaghan Homan               *++   Chandler Brooke Morrison
      Olivia Sara Isquith                       Ryan Jonathan Muldoon
      Christopher Reid Jacobs                   Julia Sara Murphy
      Zachery Andrew Jalbert                    David Oniskin Nash
*++   Norah Martin Kairys                 +     Julia Diana Navon
      Benjamin Elijah Karas                     Tuzdé Geniece Nazaire
+     Adelaide Cannon Kattman                   Dorie Lyn Neely
      Isabel Grace Katzman                      Jared Ross Neely
+     Kimberly Elizabeth Kaull                  Bradlee Austin Nevins
      Andrew Francis Kim                        Daniel John Nicolas
*++   Ian Seth Kingsbury                  *++   Samantha Kate Norman
      Nathaniel Michael Kobialka                Ryan Patrick O'Connor
*++   Melissa Jill Kornfeld                     Sean Davis O'Connor
      Nathan William Krull                *++   Alexandra Leigh Oderman
+     Lauren Marie Kuszmar                      Jessica Osariemen Okundaye
      Shannon Marrie Latham                     Brian Azor Orne
+     John Joseph Lavoie-Mayer                  Kelsey Mary O'Shea
      Brandon Xavier Lee                        Serissa Nicole Peace
      Lindsay Jane Lemieux                *++   Kelsey Alyce Pedersen
+     Dylan Bennett Levine                      Hannah Morgan Pelkey
      Jonathan Michael Lourie                   Anastasia Elizabeth Pelletier
+     Taylor Elizabeth Maag                     Emma Eleanor Taylor Pennock




                                    261
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




+    Liliya Perelman                       *++ Hilary Schwartz
     Samuel Harrison Perlow                       Tyler Hall Shepard
     Jennifer Caitlin Perry                +      Samantha Krinsky Smith
     Katrin Julia Petersen                        Patrick Jeffrey Song
++ Ross Spencer Peterson                          Eric Theodore Steen
     Jessica Copeland Pingree              +      Jason Christopher Stockwell
     Deirdre Margaret Piper                       Erodita Altagracia Suarez
     Hallie Benay Pliner                          Courtney Margaret Sullivan
+    Jessica Lynne Plunkett                       Soniya Nechal Tejwani
*++ Zoe Rose Plympton                      *++ Molly Alexandra Thibodeau
     Thomas Paul Powers                    +      Theodore Hamilton Thomas
     Kara Allyson Preston                         Patrick Kenneth Trout
*++ Grace Kimball Quigley                  +      Alexandra Tsaryuk
     John Marshall Raimo                          Timothy Goodwin Tufts
     Luiza Rapoport                               Michael McCoubrey Tumulty
     Glen Alan Rawding                            Geoffrey Prescot Van Wyck
     Thomas John Raynes                    ++ Aleksander Veksler
+    Emma Lee Rengel                              Guilherme Smirne Von Zuben
     Aaron Frederick Reny                         Charles Hoyt Walker
+    Olivia Renée Ritt                     +      Brittany Kathleen Walsh
+    Hayley Catherine Robb                 *++ Steven Andrew Waslo
*++ Jessica Sue Robbins                    *++ Douglas Todd Webster
     Laura Heloise Robert                         Gregory Andrew Welch, Jr.
+    Mark Anthony Roberto                  *++ Elizabeth Lynn Whitehill
     Taylor Hill Roberts                          Thomas John Wilk
*++ Joshua Michael Rooks                          Nathaniel Ohmen Williams
     Emily Marie Rookwood                         Jade Cassandra Williamson
     Nashua Yadira Rosa                           Taylor Thomas Wright
+    William Toland Rosenfeld              +      Suzanne Frances Wyman
+    Emily Rose Rubin                      *++ Jessica Kristin Xiarhos
     Yamila Ruiz                           +      Ariel Lee Yoffe
     Peter Joseph Saggerer                 *++ Wesley David York
+    Daria Moussa Sayan                           Arthur Louis Zetes
     Emily Helen Piper Schmitt                    Irina Zhorov
     Ryan Curtis Schrater                         Ivana Eve Zimic
                         * National Honor Society Member
                  ++ High Honor Graduate: 3.8 Cumulative Grade
                        Point Average or better (7 semesters)
   + Honor Graduate: 3.4 Cumulative Grade Point Average or better (7 semesters)




                                    262
      School    PreK   K      1     2     3     4     5     6     7     8     9    10    11     12   Totals

      Bell       41    75    85    87    81                                                           369

      Coffin                       83    90                                                           173

      Gerry            88    78                                                                       166

      Glover                 95    95    109                                                          299




263
      Eveleth          77                                                                             77

      Village                                  219   263   251                                        733

      Middle                                                     228   252                            480
                                                                                                              October 1, 2009 Enrollments
                                                                                                                                            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




      High                                                                   219   239   259   238    955

      Total     41     240   258   265   280   219   263   251   228   252   219   239   259   238   3252
              MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




              Five-Year Enrollment Summary




              10/1/05   10/1/06      10/1/07   10/1/08   10/1/09

PreSchool       39        42           32        45        41
Elementary     1005      1029         1036      1036      1043
Village        610       612          707       736       733
School
Middle         462       462          463       475       480
School
High School    1001      990          982       989       955
Total          3117      3135         3220      3281      3252




                               264
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
County of Essex, ss
to Any Constable in the Town of Marblehead
Greeting:

You are hereby required and directed in the name of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts to warn and give notice to the inhabitants of Marblehead, qualified to
vote in elections and in town affairs, to meet at the Marblehead Veterans Middle
School Auditorium, Duncan Sleigh Square, 217 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA,
on Monday, the third day of May next A. D. 2010 (it being the first Monday in
May) at 7:45 o’clock in the afternoon to act on the following articles in the Warrant
for said meeting as follows:

Article 1 Articles in Numerical Order
To see if the Town will vote to adopt an order requiring articles in the Warrant to be
taken up in their numerical order, as requested by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 2 Reports of Town Officers and Committees
To receive the report of the Town Accountant, the reports of the Town Officers, and
special Committees and act thereon.

Article 3 Assume Liability
To see if the Town will assume liability in the manner provided by Section 29 of
Chapter 91 of the General Laws, for all damages that may be incurred by work to be
performed by the Massachusetts Highway Department for the improvement,
development, maintenance and protection of tidal and non tidal rivers and streams,
harbors, tidewaters, foreshores and shores along a public beach in accordance with
Section 11 of Chapter 91 of the General Laws and authorize the Selectmen to
execute and deliver a bond of indemnity therefor to the Commonwealth, or take any
other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 4 Accept Trust Property
To see if the Town will vote to accept certain trust property, gifts or grants to be
administered by the Town or modify the terms thereof, or take any other action
relative thereto, as sponsored by Town Counsel.

Article 5 Lease Town Property
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to let or
lease such land, buildings or structures owned by the Town on such terms as they




                                        265
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


may determine, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board
of Selectmen.

Article 6 Unpaid Accounts
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum
of money to provide for the payment of any unpaid accounts brought forward from
previous years, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Director.

Article 7 Ratification of Salary Bylaw
To see if the Town will vote to ratify certain actions taken by the Compensation
Committee under the 1955 Salary Bylaw, Section 3(e) as last amended. Or take any
other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Compensation Committee.

Article 8 Fiscal 2010 School Budget Additional Appropriation
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum
of money to fund additional expenses of the fiscal 2010 school budget, said sum to
be added to article 47, item 101, schools, as voted at Town Meeting in May 2009,
or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 9 Walls and Fences
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for the
construction and reconstruction of walls and fences for the protection of highways
and property, including engineering services in connection therewith; to authorize
the appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or
otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefor; to determine whether this
appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 10 Revolving Funds
To see if the Town will vote to authorize various revolving funds as required by
M.G.L. c 44 s.53E ½, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 11 Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
To see if the Town will raise and appropriate any sums of money for the purchase
of equipment for the several departments of the Town; to authorize the Board of
Selectmen to trade old equipment as part of the purchase price; to determine
whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Committee.




                                       266
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Article 12 Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for
remodeling, reconstructing and making extraordinary repairs to existing Town
buildings and purchase necessary equipment including computer hardware and
software to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or
otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen.

Article 13 Collective Bargaining (IUE/CWE – Local 1776)
To see if the Town will, pursuant to G.L. c. 150E §7, vote to appropriate the sums
of money sufficient to fund the collective bargaining agreement for fiscal year 2011
with Local 1776 of the IUE/CWE, or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by
the Board of Selectmen.

Article 14 Collective Bargaining (Fire)
To see if the Town will, pursuant to G.L. c. 150E §7, vote to appropriate the sums
of money sufficient to fund the collective bargaining agreement for fiscal year 2011
with the International Association of Firefighters AFL/CIO CLC Local 2043, or
take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 15 Collective Bargaining (Police)
To see if the Town will, pursuant to G.L. c. 150E §7, vote to appropriate the sums
of money sufficient to fund the collective bargaining agreement for fiscal year 2011
with Town of Marblehead Police Officers Union, or take any action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 16 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Administrative)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Administrative Pay Schedule; to strike out the pay schedule
as it relates to Administrative personnel, substitute in place thereof the following
new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of
money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 17 Pay Schedule and Reclassification (Traffic Supervisors)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Traffic Supervisors Pay Schedule; to waive the pay schedule
as it relates to Traffic Supervisor personnel, substitute in place thereof the following




                                         267
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of
money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 18 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Seasonal and
Temporary Personnel)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the Bylaws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Seasonal and Temporary Personnel Pay Schedules; strike
out the pay schedules as they relate to seasonal and temporary personnel, substitute
in place thereof the following new pay schedules and to transfer from available
funds and/or appropriate a sum of money to make said new pay schedules effective,
or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 19 Compensation - Town Officers
To see if the Town will vote to revise the compensation of the Town Clerk as the
Town by vote may determine and to transfer from available funds and/or
appropriate a sum of money to make said revision effective or take any other action
relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 20 Old Landfill Remediation/Construct New Transfer Station
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for permitting, public bidding and construction for the landfill
closure and new transfer station, including supplemental design services,
constructing a cap for the area(s) encompassing the old landfill, deconstructing the
old transfer station, constructing storm water controls, and constructing a new
transfer station, new Recycling Drop-Off Area, new Swap Shed, and new Yard
Waste Processing Area; to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by
borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by
Board of Health.

Article 21 Landfill Regulatory Compliance Activities
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for continued water quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk
assessment, engineering, and any other services related to the old landfill; to
determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Health.




                                       268
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Article 22 Disposal Area Remediation / Stony Brook Road
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money to be
expended by the Board of Health for disposal area remediation as it relates to Stony
Brook Road and private property(s) on Stony Brook Road, some of which abut land
owned by the Town of Marblehead; to determine whether this appropriation shall
be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Health.

Article 23 Stony Brook Road Clean-up Real Property Purchase
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to purchase,
acquire or take by eminent domain, and to raise and appropriate a sum of money,
either by appropriation, borrowing or otherwise, to fund said purchase or taking
along with all legal costs as part of the clean-up related to the historic operations of
the former landfill, the property and building(s) located at 57 Stony Brook Road,
and more particularly described in a deed found at Book 22473 Page 485 recorded
at the Essex South Registry of Deeds containing 18,430 square feet +/-; or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Health and the Board of
Selectmen.

Article 24 Taking By Eminent Domain – Landfill Closure – Utility Easement
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to purchase,
acquire or take by eminent domain, and to raise and appropriate, either by
appropriation, borrowing or otherwise, a sum of money to fund said purchase or
taking along with all legal costs necessary to obtain a permanent utility easement
for a project known as the Landfill Closure and Transfer Station Project, an interest
in land located in Tioga Way which is a portion of Tioga Way, a private way and
which easement will include approximately 20,640 square feet +/- , as more fully
described in the plan entitled “Town of Marblehead Landfill Closure and Transfer
Station Project, Proposed Tioga Way Easement” and dated January 18, 2010 on file
with the Town Clerk’s office, said land having been determined to be necessary for
the health and welfare of the inhabitants of Marblehead and to be used for
municipal water and sewer purposes; or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 25 Taking by Eminent Domain – Landfill Closure – Sewer Main
Relocation and Water Main
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to purchase,
acquire or take by eminent domain, and to raise and appropriate, either by
appropriation, borrowing or otherwise, a sum of money to fund said purchase or
taking along with all legal costs necessary to obtain a permanent utility easement




                                         269
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


for a project known as the Landfill Closure and Transfer Station Project, an interest
in land located off of Tioga Way which is a portion of Map and Lot 152 – 12 and
which includes approximately 2,160 square feet +/- , as more fully described in the
plan entitled “Town of Marblehead Landfill Closure and Transfer Station Project,
Proposed Water and Sewer Easement” and dated January 18, 2010 on file with the
Town Clerk’s office, said land having been determined to be necessary for the
health and welfare of the inhabitants of Marblehead and to be used for municipal
sewer and water purposes; or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by
the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 26 Taking by Eminent Domain – Storm Water Management
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen, to purchase,
acquire or take by eminent domain, and to raise and appropriate, either by
appropriation, borrowing or otherwise, a sum of money to fund said purchase or
taking along with all legal costs necessary to obtain a permanent storm water
management area for a project known as the Landfill Closure and Transfer Station
Project, an interest in land located off of Green Street which is a portion of Map and
Lot 160 – 39, 160 – 37 and 160 – 38 and which includes approximately 0.75 acres
+/- , as more fully described in the plan entitled “Town of Marblehead Landfill
Closure and Transfer Station Project, Proposed Land Taking on Muldoon Property”
and dated January 18, 2010 on file with the Town Clerk’s office, said land having
been determined to be necessary for the health and welfare of the inhabitants of
Marblehead and to be used for municipal purposes; or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Health.

Article 27 Transfer Station
To see if the Town of Marblehead will keep the Town dump leaf refuse area open
to the public on Sundays between September 15th and December 15th from the hours
of 10:00am – 5:00pm without interruption. The Town will make the necessary staff
scheduling adjustments without any additional expense to the Town. Sponsored by
Betsy Rickards and others.

Article 28 Amend Bylaw
To see if the Town will amend Chapter 255, Street and Sidewalk Regulations, of
the Town of Marblehead Bylaws as follows:
     1. Omit Article I §§ 255-1 through 255-3 in their entirety.
     2. Amend Article III paragraph 255-5 through 255-12 as follows: in each
         instance where the title Surveyor of Highways appears change to Director
         of Public Works
Or to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.




                                        270
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Article 29 Repair Sidewalks
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
making repairs to sidewalks and to determine whether this appropriation shall be
raised by borrowing or otherwise, or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 30 Pleasant Street Improvement Street Corridor – Land Acquisition
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to purchase,
acquire or take by eminent domain, and to raise a sum of money either by
appropriation, borrowing or otherwise, to fund said purchase or taking along with
all legal costs necessary to obtain a parcel of land located at 195 Pleasant Street,
Assessors Map 109 Lots 8 and 9 and owned by Cyr Oil Corporation/Gregg J. Bruett
Trustee and which includes approximately 3738+/-, said land having been
determined to be necessary for the health and welfare of the inhabitants of
Marblehead and to be used for municipal purposes; or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 31 Pleasant Street Corridor Improvement Project
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to fund the design,
including professional services, and construction of improvements to the Pleasant
Street corridor from the intersection of Village Vine and Pleasant Streets to Smith
Street, including but not limited to traffic light upgrades, roadway reconfigurations
and sidewalk improvements, and to raise said sum by borrowing or otherwise; or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 32 Water Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction, reconstruction and extending of
water mains, replacement of water meters, appurtenances, engineering, consultants,
surveys including revenue studies and other general Water Department purposes,
and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by
purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements necessary to take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 33 Sewer Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction or reconstruction of sewers for
sanitary purposes and for sewerage disposal, pump stations, original pumping
equipment, metering equipment, safety equipment, replacement of said equipment,




                                        271
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


engineering, consultants, surveys, including revenue studies and other general
Sewer Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or
easements necessary to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 34 Storm Drainage Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the construction or
reconstruction of sewers for surface drainage purposes, and to authorize the
appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise,
any land or easements necessary therefor, and to raise the money for such purposes
by the issue of bonds or notes or in any other manner, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 35 Water and Sewer Commission Claims
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the
Board of Selectmen acting jointly to compromise any claims for damages or suits
pending against the Town of Marblehead on account of acts which may have
occurred during the construction of the water, sewer and storm water system or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 36 Capital Improvements - Abbot Public Library
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
remodeling, renovation or making extraordinary repairs, including all professional
architectural, design or engineering fees, to the Abbot Public Library; to determine
whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Abbot Public Library Board of
Trustees.

Article 37 Financial Assistance for Conservation
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Conservation Commission and other
proper officers of the Town to apply for financial assistance from public and private
sources to be expended by the Conservation Commission for the purchase of vacant
land and any other purpose, authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General
Laws as amended, or to reimburse the Town for sums of money expended for such
purposes, or both, and to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Conservation Commission.




                                        272
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Article 38 Traffic Offenses / Driving While Distracted
To see if the Town will amend the Town of Marblehead Bylaws by adding a new
Article III in Chapter 264 Vehicles and Traffic, as follows:

Article III Moving Violations

§264-22 Failure to Maintain Control of a Motor Vehicle

        A. Purpose: To maintain good order and provide for the public’s safety
           while driving, using, walking and/or interacting on the streets and
           ways located in Marblehead.

        B. Authority: This provision is adopted pursuant to Article 89, Section 6,
           of the Amendments to the Massachusetts Constitution, G.L. c. 40, §
           21 and G.L. c. 90C.

        C. Definition. “Operation of a Motor Vehicle While Distracted” means
           the operation of a motor vehicle by a person who, while operating the
           vehicle, is engaged in the activity of typing on or reading from a
           wireless communication device (also known as “texting” or
           “emailing” or receiving or sending or reading communications from
           and/or on said device) while driving, for purposes other than making a
           call on a cellular telephone. Further that said behavior is not necessary
           to the operation of the vehicle; and that actually impairs, or would
           reasonably be expected to impair, the ability of the person to safely
           operate the vehicle.

        D. Violation: Failure To Maintain Control of a Motor Vehicle. A person
           who engages in the Operation of a Motor Vehicle While Distracted
           shall be deemed in violation of this bylaw.

        E. Exceptions: This bylaw shall not apply to public safety personnel
           including the Town of Marblehead Police Department and Fire
           Department, who are using computer and text generated information
           in the performance of their duties.

        F. Penalty: Penalties for violations hereunder shall in accordance with
           G.L. c. 90C as follows:

                 a.   First Offense:         $ 35.00




                                       273
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


                 b.   Second Offense:         $ 75.00
                 c.   Third Offense:          $ 150.00

         G. Enforcement: The Chief of Police and/or his/her employees or
             appointees shall be responsible for enforcement of this bylaw in
             accordance with G.L. c. 90C.
Or to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 39 Release Existing Easement
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen, with the approval
of town counsel as to form, to release, convey, transfer, exchange or otherwise
dispose of all or any portion of the utility easement as described as an easement
over 14 Wallace Road, shown as Old Parcel A on a plan entitled Plan for Sewer
Easements Ocean Ave. – Bubier Rd. in Marblehead, MA, dated August 4, 1997,
and recorded in Plan Book 390, Plan 60 to Dorothy Jarvis, owner of 14 Wallace
Road, Marblehead, Massachusetts, by deed dated January 20, 1981, recorded with
the Essex County Registry of Deeds at Book 6786, page 274, or take any other
action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 40 485 Lafayette Street / Western Non-Utility Section / Activity and
Use Limitation
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to negotiate and
enter into and place an Activity and Use Limitation on the property known as the
“Western Non-Utility Section” located adjacent to 485 Lafayette Street, the former
Chadwick Lead Mill Site, as part of the remediation of hazardous material being
undertaken by NL Industries Inc. and as more particularly described in a plan
entitled “Site Plan Showing Proposed Cleanup Areas” dated December 2009 by
Woodward & Curran in the area shown as the “Western Non-Utility Section”
which said plan is on file with the Town Clerk, or take any action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 41 485 Lafayette Street / Bike Path / Activity and Use Limitation
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to negotiate and
enter into and place an Activity and Use Limitation on the property known as the
“Bike Path” located adjacent to 485 Lafayette Street, the former Chadwick Lead
Mill Site, as part of the remediation of hazardous material being undertaken by NL
Industries Inc. and as more particularly described in a plan entitled “Site Plan
Showing Proposed Cleanup Areas” dated December 2009 by Woodward & Curran
in the area shown as the “Bike Path Section” on said plan which said plan is on file




                                        274
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


with the Town Clerk, or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen.

Article 42 Artificial Turf Field – Piper Field, Marblehead High School
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the design,
installation and maintenance of an artificial turf field at Piper Field, Marblehead
High School, 2 Humphrey Street; including all requisite professional fees such as
feasibility studies, design, architectural and engineering fees and all requisite
maintenance equipment including the purchase of all necessary tractors, machinery
and sports equipment suitable for artificial turf; to determine whether this
appropriation shall be raised by issuance of bonds or notes or otherwise and take
any other actions relative to this project. Sponsored by Bruce Bial and others.

Article 43 North Shore Regional Vocational School District
To see if the Town will vote to approve the gross operating and maintenance budget
of the North Shore Technical High School and appropriate a sum of money for the
Town’s assessment of the same, or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 44 Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Town to become a member of the
Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District (the “District”) in
accordance with Chapter 463 of the Acts of 2004 (as amended); and to further
authorize the Town to approve the debt of the district authorized or to be authorized
in the amount of $133,000,000.00 dollars, the Town’s share of which shall be
apportioned to the Town based on the Town’s projected percentage of enrollment
for the proposed Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical High School, to be
expended under the direction of the District for construction of the Essex North
Shore Agricultural and Technical High School, which school facility shall have an
anticipated useful life as an educational facility for the instruction of school
children for at least 50 years, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored
by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 45 Amend Dog By-law
To See if the Town of Marblehead will vote to amend Article III § 13-10 (C) of the
Town Bylaw which currently reads:
C. Licensing period. The licensing period shall be from April 1 to March 31 of
each calendar year.




                                        275
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


TO:
C. Licensing period. The licensing period shall be from January 1st to December
31st of each calendar year.
or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Town Clerk.

Article 46 Marblehead-Glover/Eveleth Project
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate, borrow or transfer from available funds,
a sum of money to be expended under the direction of the Glover School Building
Committee for the Glover/Eveleth School Building Project, to be located at either
Parcel 40-4-0 situated at 9 Maple Street or Parcel 25-21-0 situated at 3 Brook Road,
Marblehead, Massachusetts, which school facility shall have an anticipated useful
life as an educational facility for the instruction of school children of at least 50
years, and for which the Town may be eligible for a school construction grant from
the Massachusetts School Building Authority (MSBA). The MSBA’s grant
program is a non-entitlement, discretionary program based on need, as determined
by the MSBA, and any project costs the Town incurs in excess of any grant
approved by and received from the MSBA shall be the sole responsibility of the
Town. Any grant that Marblehead may receive from the MSBA for the Project
shall not exceed the lesser of (1) forty-percent (40%) of eligible, approved project
costs, as determined by the MSBA, or (2) the total maximum grant amount
determined by the MSBA. Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 47 Schools Construction and/or Renovation Program
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
remodeling, construction, purchasing technology software and equipment,
furnishing or making extraordinary repairs, including all professional feasibility
studies, design, architectural and engineering fees, to the Gerry, Coffin, Bell,
Eveleth, Glover, Village, Veterans Middle and High School and/or any other
schools and their respective playing fields, and to raise the money for these
purposes by the issue of bonds or notes, by the transfer of an unused/prior
appropriation and borrowing authority for such purposes, or in any other manner, or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 48 School Department Computer, Support Equipment, and
Technology Infrastructure.
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
purchasing computers, technology infrastructure, support software and equipment
and necessary accessory furnishings and to raise the money for these purposes by
the issuance of bonds or notes or in any other manner, or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.




                                        276
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT


Article 49 Available Funds appropriate to Reduce Tax Rate
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate free cash balance in the hands of the
Town Treasurer, including any surplus or part of surplus in the Electric Light
Department for use of the Assessors in making the tax rate or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Director.

Article 50 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the necessary and
usual expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2010, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Finance
Department.

Article 51 Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the supplemental
expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning July
1, 2010, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Finance
Department.

You are hereby further required and directed to notify and warn the Inhabitants of
the Town of Marblehead aforesaid who are qualified to vote in elections and in
Town affairs to subsequently meet at the several designated polling places in their
respective precincts in said Marblehead to wit:

In Precinct 1 - Polling Place –
OLD TOWN HOUSE
In Precinct 2 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 3 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 4 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 5 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 6 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 7 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER




                                       277
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



on Monday, the 10th day of May next A.D. 2010 (it being the second Monday in
May) at 7 o’clock in the forenoon then and there to bring into the precinct officers
of their respective precincts their votes on one ballot for the following-named Town
Officers to wit:

5 Selectmen
1 Town Clerk
1 Moderator
1 Assessor
1 Cemetery Commissioner
1 Cemetery Commissioner for 2 year unexpired term
1 Board of Health
1 Housing Authority
2 Library Trustees
2 Electric Light Commissioners
1 Planning Board
5 Recreation & Park Commissioners
2 School Committee
2 Water and Sewer Commissioners
1 Water and Sewer Commissioner for 2 year unexpired term

For these purposes the polls will be open at each and all of said precincts at 7
o’clock in the forenoon and will be closed at 8 o’clock in the afternoon at each and
all of said precincts and you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested
copies thereof at Abbot Hall and ten (10) other conspicuous places in Town as
required by the Bylaws not later than thirty (30) days after being closed.

Hereof fail not and make due return of this Warrant or a certified copy thereof with
our doings thereon, to each of the several precinct wardens at the time and place of
meetings aforesaid and to the Town Clerk as soon as may be before the said
meetings.




                                       278
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Given under our hands at Marblehead aforesaid this 17th day of February 2010.


____________________________________
JACKIE BELF-BECKER, Chair

____________________________________
HARRY C. CHRISTENSEN, JR.

____________________________________
JUDITH R. JACOBI

____________________________________
JAMES E. NYE

____________________________________
WILLIAM L. WOODFIN, II


Selectmen of Marblehead




A True Copy

Attest:                                 , Constable




                                     279
                                          Departmental Information
Emergency:
FIRE                                                   911
POLICE                                                 911

Town of Marblehead Official Website: www.marblehead.org

(Note: All phone numbers are 781 Area Code unless otherwise noted.)
Assessments                           Assessors                   631-0236
Birth, Marriage & Death Certificates Town Clerk                   631-0528
Board of Appeals (Zoning)             Engineering                 631-1529
Building Permits                      Building                    631-2220
Burial Permits                        Health                      631-0212
Cemetery                              Cemetery                    631-1182
Collector of Taxes                    Finance                     631-0587
Council on Aging                      Council on Aging            631-6737
Elections                             Town Clerk                  631-0528
Finance Director                      Finance                     631-1705
Fire Prevention                       Fire Dept.                  639-3428
Fuel Oil Storage                      Fire Dept.                  639-3428
Harbormaster                          Harbormaster                631-2386
Health                                Health Dept.                631-0212
Historical Commission                 Abbot Hall                  639-3425
Library                               Abbot Public Library        631-1480
Licenses – alcohol, common victualler
  entertainment, second hand          Selectmen’s Office          631-0000
Licenses – marriage, dog              Town Clerk                  631-0528
Plumbing Pemits                       Building                    639-9151
Police Administration                 Police Dept.                631-1212
Recreation                            Recreation & Park           631-3350
Schools:                              Administration              639-3140
                                      High School                 639-3100
                                      Veterans Middle School      639-3120
                                      Village School              639-3159
                                      Bell                        639-3171
                                      Coffin                      639-3181
                                      Gerry                       639-3186
                                      Glover                      639-3191
                                      Eveleth                     639-3196
Streets, Sidewalks                    Public Works                631-1750
Town Administrator                    Selectmen’s Office          631-0000
Town Treasurer                        Finance                     631-1033
Trees                                 Tree Warden                 631-2721
Veterans’ Benefits                    Veterans’ Agent             631-0990
Water & Sewer                         Water & Sewer               631-2694
Weights & Measures                    Sealer                      631-0990
Wiring Permits                        Building                    639-9151
Zoning Enforcement                    Building                    631-2220

FEDERAL AND STATE SENATORS AND REPRESENTATIVES:
US Senators:                Scott P. Brown   617-565-3170
                            John F. Kerry    617-565-8519
US Representative (6th Dt.) John F. Tierney  978-531-1669
MA Representative (8th Dt.) Lori Ehrlich     617-722-2090
MA Senator (3rd Dt.):       Thomas M. McGee  617-722-1350
