        ANNUAL
     TOWN REPORT
    OF THE YEAR 2007



MARBLEHEAD, MASSACHUSETTS
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                             Table of Contents

Board of Selectmen                                4
Warrant for Annual Town Meeting                   6
May 7, 2007 and Annual
Town Election May 14, 2007
Results of Annual Town Election                  43
May 14, 2007
Results of Annual Town Meeting                   48
May 7, 8, 9, 2007
Warrant for Special Election                     116
June 25, 2007
Results of Special Election                      118
June 25, 2007
Officials Elected                                120
Officials Appointed                              123
Vital Records of 2007                            134
Number of births, marriages, deaths and
causes of death recorded
Department Reports:
Abbot Public Library                             137
Board of Assessors                               140
Board of Health                                  142
Building Commissioner and Inspectional           155
Services
Cable TV Oversight Committee                     157
Cemetery Department                              158
Conservation Commission                          160
Council on Aging                                 162
Department of Public Works                       166
Engineering Department                           168
Financial Services                               170
Fire Department                                  172
Fort Sewall Oversight Committee                  184
Harbors and Waters                               186




                                          2
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Marblehead Cultural Council                     188
Marblehead Historical Commission                190
Marblehead Housing Authority                    192
Metropolitan Area Planning Council              199
Municipal Light Department                      208
Old and Historic Districts Commission           216
Planning Board                                  217
Police Department                               219
Recreation, Parks & Forestry                    225
Sealer of Weights & Measures                    235
Shellfish Constables                            236
Task Force Against Discrimination               237
Veterans’ Agent                                 239
Water and Sewer Commission                      240
Zoning Board of Appeals                         248
School Reports
Marblehead School Committee members             249
organization and meetings
Marblehead Schools on the Web                   249
Admission Requirements                          249
Signals for No Schools                          250
2007-2008 School Hours                          250
Superintendent of Schools                       250
Marblehead School Committee Report              254
Administration, Faculty and Staff               257
2007 MCAS Summary                               272
Scholastic Aptitude Test Scores (SAT)           276
5 year history
Marblehead High School Class of 2007            277
Enrollment Summaries                            282

Town Warrant – Annual Town Meeting              284
May 5, 2008




                                        3
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                        BOARD OF SELECTMEN
The Board of Selectmen meets on the second and fourth Wednesday of each month
at 7:30 PM in their Meeting Room in Abbot Hall. All meetings are open to the
public. The board is composed of five members, each elected annually. Members
of the Board of Selectmen are Harry Christensen Jr., Judith R. Jacobi, Jackie Belf-
Becker, James E. Nye and William L. Woodfin II.

Mr. Woodfin was elected in May filling the vacancy created by Jeffrey N. Shribman
who opted not to seek reelection. The Board thanks Jeff for all of his hard work and
dedication.

The construction of the causeway seawall began this year. In May, Town Meeting
voted to approve the project and in June the voters authorized the borrowing of up
to 8.7 million dollars through a proposition 2 1/12 debt exclusion override. The
construction of the seawall was put out to bid in accordance with MGL chapter
3039M and awarded to PIHL-RDA LLC of Quincy, Massachusetts. A construction
management contract was awarded to Vine Associates of Newburyport,
Massachusetts to oversee the construction.

The Board Appointed Robert Picariello Chief of Police to replace James Carney
after his retirement. The board elected to use process whereby a consultant is hired
to conduct a sole assessment center as governed by Massachusetts Civil Service
Commission.

A new ad hoc committee was formed to look at smart growth and inclusionary
housing as well as creating an affordable housing plan and an affordable housing
trust.

Annual perambulation of town ways was held on May 19 this year. The
perambulation is an annual event sponsored by the Board for Selectman and the
Marblehead Conservancy to publicize the town ways.

Every other year, the Tedesco Country Club donates the use of their facilities for a
“golf day” for a Marblehead based organization fundraiser. This year the Board of
Selectmen chose the Marblehead Community Center as the recipient.

This year the board accepted with deep regret the resignations of Mike Mentuck of
the Fireworks Committee, Elizabeth (Libby) McKinnon from the Historical




                                         4
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Commission and David Stern who had served on the planning board for over twenty
years.

In 2007, the town lost several long-standing citizens including Benjamin Arthur
Woodfin who was the cemetery superintendent for 33 years and a town employee
for 50 years, Virginia P. Gamage who was the town’s first town historian and
instrumental in creating the town’s historic districts, Paul L. Lausier who was Town
Counsel for 48 years and Elizabeth M. McKinnon who was a member of the
Historical Commission for over 20 years and former long-time Selectmen’s
Secretary prior to her retirement.

The Board wants to recognize and thank the countless volunteers throughout the
Town government and local philanthropic organizations that devote substantial
amounts of their personal free time working for the benefit of Marblehead as well as
all of those who contributed financially to the various funds established for the
benefit of the Town. Without the dedication, involvement and generosity of these
volunteers and her citizens along with the efforts of our town employees,
Marblehead (and its local government) certainly would not be as special and the
wonderful place in which we currently live and are proud to call home.

The Board of Selectmen and the staff extends their gratitude to Pat Charbonnier,
who took a temporary leave from her retirement again to assist us this summer. The
Board also thanks Anthony M. Sasso, Town Administrator; Rebecca Curran, Town
Planner; and the office staff Patricia Cerrutti, Deborah Fadden and welcomes Kyle
Wiley who joined the office in July, for all their assistance this past year and extend
our best wishes and thanks to the all of the citizens of the Town of Marblehead
whom we faithfully and conscientiously strive to represent.

Marblehead Forever!

Faithfully yours,

Harry C. Christensen, Jr., Chairman
Jackie Belf-Becker
Judith R. Jacobi
James E. Nye
William L. Woodfin, II




                                          5
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Commonwealth of Massachusetts,

County of Essex, ss

To Any Constable in the Town of Marblehead

Greeting:

         You are hereby required and directed in the name of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts to warn and give notice to the inhabitants of Marblehead, qualified to
vote in elections and in town affairs, to meet at the Marblehead Veterans Middle
School Auditorium, Duncan Sleigh Square, 217 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA,
on Monday, the seventh day of May next A. D. 2007 (it being the first Monday in
May) at 7:45 o’clock in the afternoon to act on the following articles in the Warrant
for said meeting as follows:

Article 1 Articles in Numerical Order
To see if the Town will vote to adopt an order requiring articles in the Warrant to be
taken up in their numerical order.

Article 2 Reports of Town Officers and Committees
To receive the report of the Town Accountant, the reports of the Town Officers, and
special Committees and act thereon.

Article 3 Lease Town Property
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to let or
lease such land, buildings or structures owned by the Town on such terms as they
may determine, or take any other action relative thereto.

Article 4 Accept Trust Property
To see if the Town will vote to accept certain trust property, gifts or grants to be
administered by the Town or modify the terms thereof, or take any other action
relative thereto.

Article 5 Assume Liability
To see if the Town will assume liability in the manner provided by Section 29 of
Chapter 91 of the General Laws, for all damages that may be incurred by work to be
performed by the Massachusetts Highway Department for the improvement,




                                          6
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



development, maintenance and protection of tidal and non tidal rivers and streams,
harbors, tidewaters, foreshores and shores along a public beach in accordance with
Section 11 of Chapter 91 of the General Laws and authorize the Selectmen to
execute and deliver a bond of indemnity therefore to the Commonwealth, or take
any other action relative thereto, .

Article 6 Unpaid Accounts
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of
money to provide for the payment of any unpaid accounts brought forward from
previous years, or take any other action relative thereto.

Article 7 North Shore Regional Vocational School District
To see if the Town will vote to approve the gross operating and maintenance budget
of the North Shore Technical High School and appropriate a sum of money for the
Town’s assessment of the same, or take any other action relative thereto. .

Article 8 Revolving Funds
To see if the Town will vote to authorize various revolving funds as required by
M.G.L. c44s.53E ½, or take any other action relative thereto. .

Article 9 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Administrative)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the By-laws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Administrative Pay Schedule; to strike out the pay schedule
as it relates to Administrative personnel, substitute in place thereof the following
new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of
money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
thereto.

Article 10 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Seasonal and
Temporary Personnel)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the By-laws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Seasonal and Temporary Personnel Pay Schedules; strike out
the pay schedules as they relate to seasonal and temporary personnel, substitute in
place thereof the following new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds
and/or appropriate a sum of money to make said new pay schedules effective, or
take any other action relative thereto.

Article 11 Pay Schedule and Reclassification (Traffic Supervisors)




                                         7
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the By-laws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Traffic Supervisors Pay Schedule; to waive the pay schedule
as it relates to Traffic Supervisor personnel, substitute in place thereof the following
new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of
money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
thereto.

Article 12 School Department Computer and Support Equipment
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
purchasing computers and support software and equipment and necessary accessory
furnishings and to raise the moneys for these purposes by the issue of bonds or
notes or in any other manner, or take any other action relative thereto.

Article 13 Schools Construction and or Renovation Program
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
feasibility study, design, remodeling, constructing, furnishing or making
extraordinary repairs, including all professional architectural, design and
engineering fees, to the Gerry, Coffin, Bell, Eveleth, Glover, Village, Veterans
Middle School, High School and any other schools and their respective playing
fields and to raise the money for these purposes by the issue of bonds or notes or in
any other manner, or take any other action relative thereto.

Article 14 Fiscal 2007 School Budget Additional Appropriation
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of
money to fund additional expenses of the fiscal 2007 school budget, said sum to be
added to Article 49, Item 101, Schools, as voted at Town Meeting in May 2006, or
take any action relative thereto.

Article 15 Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
To see if the Town will raise and appropriate any sums of money for the purchase of
equipment for the several departments of the Town; to authorize the Board of
Selectmen to trade old equipment as part of the purchase price; to determine
whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any
other action relative thereto.

Article 16 Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for
remodeling, reconstructing and making extraordinary repairs to existing Town
buildings and the purchase of necessary equipment including computer hardware




                                           8
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



and software in connection therewith; to determine whether this appropriation shall
be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto.

Article 17 Walls and Fences
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for the
construction and reconstruction of walls and fences for the protection of highways
and property, including engineering services in connection therewith; to authorize
the appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or
otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefor; to determine whether this
appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action
relative thereto.

Article 18 Water and Sewer Commission Claims
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the
Board of Selectmen acting jointly to compromise any claims for damages or suits
pending against the Town of Marblehead on account of acts which may have
occurred during the construction of the water, sewer and storm water system or take
any other action relative thereto.

Article 19 Storm Drainage Construction
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for the
construction or reconstruction of sewers for surface drainage purposes; to authorize
the appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or
otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefore; to determine whether this
appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action
relative thereto.

Article 20 Sewer Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money to be
expended by the Water and Sewer Commission for the construction or
reconstruction of sewers for sanitary purposes and for sewerage disposal, pump
stations, original pumping equipment, metering equipment, safety equipment,
replacement of said equipment, engineering, consultants, surveys, including revenue
studies and other general Sewer Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of
Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or
otherwise any lands or easements necessary; to determine whether this
appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action
relative thereto.

Article 21 Water Department Construction




                                         9
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction, reconstruction and extending of
water mains, replacement of water meters, appurtenances, engineering, consultants,
surveys, including revenue studies and other general Water Department purposes,
and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by
purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements necessary or take
any other action relative thereto.

Article 22 Storm water Management and
Erosion Control By-Law for the Town of Marblehead
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Marblehead By-Laws by adding a New
Chapter 195, Storm Water Management and Erosion Control By-Law, as follows:
Chapter 195

ARTICLE I.        Purpose

1.        Increased volumes of stormwater, contaminated stormwater runoff from
impervious surfaces, and soil erosion and sedimentation are major causes of:
impairment of water quality and flow in lakes, ponds, streams, rivers, wetlands and
groundwater; contamination of drinking water supplies;            erosion of stream
channels; alteration or destruction of aquatic and wildlife habitat; flooding; and
overloading or clogging of municipal catch basins and storm drainage systems.
The United States Environmental Protection Agency has identified sedimentation
from land disturbance activities and polluted stormwater runoff from land
development and redevelopment as major sources of water pollution, impacting
drinking water supplies, natural habitats and recreational resources. Regulation of
activities that result in the disturbance of land and the creation of stormwater runoff
is necessary for the protection of the water bodies and groundwater resources within
the Town of Marblehead, to safeguard the health, safety and welfare of the general
public and protect the natural resources of the Town.

2        The objectives of this By-Law are to:
         A.      protect water resources;
         B.      require practices that eliminate soil erosion and sedimentation;
         C.      control the volume and rate of stormwater runoff resulting from
                 land disturbance activities in order to minimize potential impacts
                 of flooding;
         D.      require practices to manage and treat stormwater runoff generated
                 from new development and redevelopment;
         E.      protect groundwater and surface water from degradation;




                                         10
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



        F.       promote infiltration and the recharge of groundwater;
        G.       prevent pollutants from entering the municipal storm drain
                 system;
        H.       ensure that soil erosion and sedimentation control measures and
                 stormwater runoff management practices are incorporated into the
                 site planning and design process and are implemented and
                 maintained;
        I.       ensure adequate long-term operation and maintenance of
                 structural stormwater best management practices;
        J.       require practices to control waste such as discarded building
                 materials, concrete truck washout, chemicals, litter and sanitary
                 waste at construction sites that may cause adverse impacts to
                 water quality;
        K.       comply with state and federal statutes and regulations relating to
                 stormwater discharges; and
        L.       establish the Town of Marblehead’s legal authority to ensure
                 compliance with the provisions of this By-Law through
                 inspection, monitoring and enforcement.

ARTICLE II.    Definitions
      For the purposes of this By-Law, the following shall mean:
      ABUTTER: The owner(s) of land abutting the activity.

AGRICULTURE: The normal maintenance or improvement of land in agricultural
or aquacultural use, as defined by the Massachusetts Wetlands Protection Act and
its implementing regulations.

ALTERATION OF DRAINAGE CHARACTERISTICS: Any activity on an area
of land that changes the water quality or the force, quantity, direction, timing or
location of runoff flowing from the area. Such changes include change from
distributed runoff to confined, discrete discharge; change in the volume of runoff
from the area; change in the peak rate of runoff from the area; and change in the
recharge to groundwater in the area.

APPLICANT: Any “person,” as defined below, requesting a soil erosion and
sediment control permit for proposed land-disturbance activity.

AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY: The Conservation Commission
and its employees or agents designated to enforce this By-Law.




                                        11
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP): An activity, procedure, restraint or
structural improvement that helps to reduce the quantity of and/or improve the
quality of stormwater runoff.

CONSTRUCTION AND WASTE MATERIALS: Excess or discarded building or
site materials, including but not limited to concrete truck washout, chemicals, oils,
litter and sanitary waste at a construction site that may adversely impact water
quality.

CLEARING: Any activity that removes the vegetative surface cover. Clearing
activities generally include grubbing activity as defined below.

DEVELOPMENT: The modification of land to accommodate a new use or
expansion of an existing use, usually involving construction.

DISTURBANCE OF LAND: Any action, including clearing and grubbing, that
causes a change in the position, location or arrangement of soil, sand, rock, gravel
or similar earth material.

ENVIRONMENTAL SITE MONITOR: A Registered Professional Engineer or
other trained professional selected by the Authorized Enforcement Authority and
retained by the Authorized Enforcement Authority and paid by the holder of a
Minor Land Disturbance Permit or a Full Land Disturbance Permit to periodically
inspect the work and report to the Authorized Enforcement Authority.

EROSION: The wearing away of the land surface by natural or artificial forces
such as wind, water, ice, gravity or vehicle traffic and the subsequent detachment
and transportation of soil particles.

EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL PLAN: A document containing
narrative, drawings and details developed by a Registered Professional Engineer
(PE) or a Registered Professional Land Surveyor (PLS), which includes best
management practices or equivalent measures designed to control surface runoff,
erosion and sedimentation during pre-construction and construction-related land
disturbance activities.

ESTIMATED HABITAT OF RARE WILDLIFE AND CERTIFIED VERNAL
POOLS: Habitats delineated for state-protected rare wildlife and certified vernal
pools. See the Wetlands Protection Act regulations (310 CMR 10.00) and the Forest
Cutting Practices Act regulations (304 CMR 11.00).




                                        12
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




GRADING: Changing the level or shape of the ground surface.

GRUBBING: The act of clearing land surface by digging or grinding up roots and
stumps.

IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any material or structure on or above the ground that
prevents water infiltrating the underlying soil. Impervious surface includes, without
limitation, roads, paved parking lots, sidewalks and roof tops. Impervious surface
also includes soils, gravel driveways and similar surfaces with a runoff coefficient
(Rational Method) greater than 85.

LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY or LAND DISTURBANCE: Any activity
including, without limitation, clearing, grubbing, grading, digging, cutting or
excavation of soil; placement of fill; and construction that causes a change in the
position or location of soil, sand, rock, gravel or similar earth material.

LOT: A single parcel of land held in identical ownership throughout and defined by
metes, bounds or boundary lines in a recorded deed on a recorded plan.

MASSACHUSETTS ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT: M.G.L. Ch. 131A and its
implementing regulations at 321 CMR 10.00, which prohibit the “taking” of any
rare plant or animal species listed as “Endangered,” “Threatened,” or “Of Special
Concern.”

MASSACHUSETTS STORMWATER MANAGEMENT POLICY: The Policy
issued by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, as amended,
that coordinates the requirements prescribed by state regulations promulgated under
the authority of the Massachusetts Wetlands Protection Act, M.G.L. Ch. 131, § 40,
and the Massachusetts Clean Waters Act, M.G.L. Ch. 21, §§ 23-56. The Policy
addresses stormwater impacts through implementation of performance standards to
reduce or prevent pollutants from reaching water bodies and control the quantity of
runoff from a site.

MUNICIPAL STORM DRAIN SYSTEM or MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM
SEWER SYSTEM (MS4): The system of conveyances designed or used for
collecting or conveying stormwater, including any road with a drainage system,
street, gutter, curb, inlet, piped storm drain, pumping facility, retention or detention
basin, natural or manmade or altered drainage channel, open channel, reservoir and




                                          13
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



other drainage structure that together comprise the storm drainage system owned or
operated by the Town of Marblehead.

OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE PLAN: A plan describing the functional,
financial and organizational mechanisms for the ongoing operation and maintenance
of a stormwater management system to ensure that it continues to function as
designed.

OUTFALL: The point at which stormwater flows out from a discernible, confined
point source or discrete conveyance into a receiving water body and/or wetland.

OUTSTANDING RESOURCE WATERS (ORWs): Waters designated by the
Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection as ORWs. These waters
have exceptional sociologic, recreational, ecological and/or aesthetic values and are
subject to more stringent requirements under both the Massachusetts Water Quality
Standards, promulgated at 314 CMR 4.00, and the Massachusetts Stormwater
Management Standards, set forth in the Massachusetts Stormwater Management
Policy. ORWs include vernal pools certified by the Natural Heritage Program of
the Massachusetts Department of Fisheries and Wildlife and Environmental Law
Enforcement, all Class A designated public water supplies with their bordering
vegetated wetlands and other waters specifically designated.

OWNER: A person with a legal or equitable interest in property.

PERMITTEE: The person who holds a land disturbance permit and therefore bears
the responsibilities and enjoys the privileges conferred thereby.

PERSON:       An individual, partnership, association, firm, company, trust,
corporation, agency, authority, department or political subdivision of the
Commonwealth or the federal government, to the extent permitted by law, and any
officer, employee or agent thereof.

POINT SOURCE: Any discernible, confined and discrete means of conveyance,
including but not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete
fissure or container from which pollutants are or may be discharged.

PRE-CONSTRUCTION: All activity in preparation for construction.




                                         14
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



PRIORITY HABITAT OF RARE SPECIES: Habitats delineated for rare plant and
animal populations protected pursuant to the Massachusetts Endangered Species
Act and its regulations.

REDEVELOPMENT: Development, rehabilitation, expansion, demolition or
phased projects that disturb the ground surface or increase the impervious area on
previously developed sites.
RESPONSIBLE PARTIES: Owner(s) and persons with financial, operational
and/or administrative responsibility.

RUNOFF: Rainfall, snowmelt or irrigation water flowing over the ground surface.

SEDIMENT: Mineral or organic soil material that is transported by wind or water
from its origin to another location; the product of erosion processes.

SEDIMENTATION: The process or act of deposition of sediment.

SITE: Any lot or parcel of land or area of property where land-disturbing activities
are, were or will be performed.

SLOPE: The incline of a ground surface expressed as a ratio of horizontal distance
to vertical distance.

SOIL: Any earth, sand, rock, gravel or similar material.

STABILIZATION: The use, singly or in combination, of mechanical, structural or
vegetative methods to prevent or retard erosion.

STORMWATER: Stormwater runoff, snow melt runoff and surface water runoff
and drainage.

STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN: A document containing narrative,
drawings and details prepared by a Registered Professional Engineer (PE), which
includes structural and non-structural best management practices to manage and
treat stormwater runoff generated from regulated development activity. A
Stormwater Management Plan also includes an Operation and Maintenance Plan
describing the maintenance requirements for structural best management practices.

STRIP: Any activity which removes the vegetative ground surface cover, including
tree removal, clearing, grubbing and storage or removal of topsoil.




                                        15
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS): Material, including but not limited to trash,
debris and sand, suspended in stormwater runoff.

VERNAL POOLS: Temporary bodies of freshwater which provide critical habitat
for a number of vertebrate and invertebrate wildlife species. For the purpose of this
By-law, vernal pools shall be as those areas certified as such by the Commonwealth
of Massachusetts Division of Fisheries and Wildlife.

WATERCOURSE: A natural or man-made channel through which water flows,
including a river, brook, stream, underground stream, pond or lake.

WETLAND RESOURCE AREA: An area specified in the Massachusetts Wetlands
Protection Act, M.G.L. Ch. 131, § 40, and accompanying regulations and/or in
Chapter 194 of the By-Laws of the Town of Marblehead.

WETLANDS: Freshwater wetland, marsh, bog, wet meadow and swamp are
defined in M.G.L. Ch. 131, § 40, and accompanying regulations, and the Town of
Marblehead Wetlands Protection By-Law and Regulations and are collectively
known as vegetated wetlands. Credible evidence as to wetland affinities of other
vegetation in an area shall be considered in making wetland determinations.

ARTICLE III.      Authority

This By-Law is adopted under authority granted by the Home Rule Amendment of
the Massachusetts Constitution, the Home Rule statutes, G.L. c. 83 § 1, 10 and 16
and G.L. ch. 149 §135 - 140 and pursuant to the regulations of the Federal Clean
Water Act, found at 40 CFR 122.34 and published in the Federal Register on
December 8, 1999, as amended.

ARTICLE IV.       Applicability

This By-Law shall apply to all land-disturbing activities within the jurisdiction of
the Town of Marblehead. Except as permitted by the Authorized Enforcement
Authority, or as otherwise provided in this By-Law, no person shall perform any
activity that results in land disturbance of 40,000 square feet or more, including
40,000 square feet of area which is comprised of smaller, individual parcels within
the same project or unconnected areas which comprise 40,000 square feet or more
in the aggregate.




                                        16
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



1.   Regulated Activities
     Regulated activities shall include, but not be limited to:
A.   land disturbance of 40,000 square feet or more, whether or not associated
     with construction or reconstruction of structures;
B.   development or redevelopment involving multiple separate activities in
     discontinuous locations or on different schedules if the activities are part of
     a larger common plan of development that all together disturbs 40,000
     square feet or more of land;
C.   paving or other change in surface material over an area of 40,000 square
     feet or more causing a significant reduction of permeability or increase in
     runoff;
D.   construction of a new drainage system or alteration of an existing drainage
     system or conveyance serving a drainage area of 40,000 square feet or
     more;
E.   any other activity altering the surface of an area exceeding 40,000 square
     feet or more that will, or may, result in increased stormwater runoff
     flowing from the property into a public way, the municipal storm drain
     system, or wetlands; or
F.   construction or reconstruction of structures where 40,000 square feet or
     more of roof drainage is altered.

2.   Erosion and Sedimentation Control Requirement
     A project which includes land disturbance of less than 40,000 square feet
     shall be considered to be in conformance with this By-Law if soils or other
     eroded matter have been or will be prevented from being deposited onto
     adjacent properties, rights-of-ways, the public storm drainage system or
     wetlands and watercourses. The design, installation and maintenance of
     erosion and sediment control operations and facilities shall adhere to the
     standards specified in the Regulations adopted pursuant to this By-Law.

3.   Exempt Activities
     The following activities are exempt from the requirements of this By-Law:

A.   normal maintenance and improvement of land in agricultural use as
     defined by the Massachusetts Wetlands Protection Act;

B.   repair of septic systems when required by the Board of Health for the
     protection of public health and in compliance with Section IV.B hereof;




                                      17
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



C.      normal maintenance of existing landscaping, gardens or lawn areas
        associated with a single family dwelling, provided such maintenance does
        not include the addition of more than 50 cubic yards of soil material,
        construction of any walls, alteration of existing grades by more than one
        foot in elevation or alteration of drainage patterns;

D.      the construction of fencing that will not alter existing terrain or drainage
        patterns;

E.      construction of utilities other than drainage (e.g. gas, water, electric,
        telephone) that will not alter terrain or drainage patterns; and

F.      projects wholly within the jurisdiction of the Authorized Enforcement
        Authority and requiring an Order of Conditions.

ARTICLE V.       Administration

The Authorized Enforcement Authority shall administer, implement and enforce
this By-Law. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the Authorized
Enforcement Authority through this By-Law may be delegated in writing by the
Authorized Enforcement Authority to its employees and/or agents.

ARTICLE VI.      Regulations

The Authorized Enforcement Authority may adopt and periodically amend rules and
regulations to effectuate the purposes of this By-Law. Prior to the adoption and
subsequent amendment to the rules and regulations, if any, the Authorized
Enforcement Authority shall hold a public hearing. Notice of the time and place of
the hearing, and of the subject matter, sufficient for identification, shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the Town once in each of two
successive weeks, the first publication to be not less than fourteen days before the
day of the hearing. A copy of the adopted regulations shall be made available at the
Office of the Town Clerk and as otherwise deemed appropriate by the Authorized
Enforcement Authority. Failure by the Authorized Enforcement Authority to
promulgate such rules and regulations shall not have the effect of suspending or
invalidating this By-Law.

ARTICLE VII. Permits




                                        18
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



A    Permit hereunder is required prior to any activity disturbing 40,000 or
     more square feet of land. The site owner or his/her agent shall apply to the
     Authorized Enforcement Authority for the permit. While application may
     be made by a representative, the permittee must be the owner of the site.

1.   Applications
     An application shall be made to the Authorized Enforcement Authority in a
     form and containing information as specified in this By-Law and in the
     rules and regulations adopted by the Authorized Enforcement Authority, if
     any, and shall be accompanied by payment of the appropriate application
     and review fees.
2.   Fees
     Fees shall be established by Authorized Enforcement Authority to cover
     expenses connected with public notice, application review and monitoring
     permit compliance. The fees shall be sufficient to cover professional
     review as well. The Authorized Enforcement Authority is authorized to
     retain a Registered Professional Engineer or other professional consultant
     to advise the Authorized Enforcement Authority on any or all aspects of
     the application. Applicants must pay all review fees before the review
     process may begin. The applicant for a Land Disturbance Permit may be
     required to cover the costs of said consultant(s) through an account
     established pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 44, § 53G.
3.   Information Requests
     The Authorized Enforcement Authority may request such additional
     information as is necessary to enable the Authorized Enforcement
     Authority to determine whether the proposed land disturbance activity will
     protect water resources and comply with the requirements of this By-Law.
4.   Determination of Completeness
     The Authorized Enforcement Authority shall make a determination as to
     the completeness of the application and adequacy of the materials
     submitted. No review shall take place until the application has been found
     to be complete.
5.   Coordination with Other Boards
     On receipt of a complete application for a Land Disturbance Permit, the
     Authorized Enforcement Authority shall distribute one copy each to the
     Planning Board, the Water and Sewer Commission, the Board of Health
     and the Building Commissioner for review and comment. Said agencies
     and persons shall, in their discretion, investigate the case and report their
     recommendations to the Authorized Enforcement Authority.                 The
     Authorized Enforcement Authority shall not hold a hearing on the Land




                                     19
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



     Disturbance Permit until it has received reports from said agencies or until
     said agencies have allowed twenty (20) days to elapse after receipt of the
     application materials without submission of a report thereon.
6.   Entry
     Filing an application for a Land Disturbance Permit grants the Authorized
     Enforcement Authority or its agent(s) permission to enter the site to verify
     the information in the application and to inspect for compliance with
     permit conditions, to the extent permitted by law.
7.   Hearing
     Within thirty (30) days of receipt of a complete application for a Land
     Disturbance Permit, the Authorized Enforcement Authority shall hold a
     public hearing and shall take final action within thirty (30) days from the
     close of said hearing, unless such time is extended by agreement between
     the applicant and the Authorized Enforcement Authority. Notice of the
     public hearing shall, at least Five (5) business days prior to said hearing, be
     given by publication in a local newspaper of general circulation, and by
     posting. The Authorized Enforcement Authority shall be responsible for
     publishing the notice in the local newspaper and posting the notice at
     Abbot Hall, and the Applicant shall be responsible for paying the costs of
     same. The Authorized Enforcement Authority shall make the application
     available for inspection by the public during business hours at the Mary
     Alley Building.
8.   Action
     The Authorized Enforcement Authority may:

     A.       approve the application and issue a permit if it finds that the
              proposed plan will protect water resources and complies with the
              requirements of this By-Law;
     B.       approve the application and issue a permit with conditions,
              modifications and/or restrictions that the Authorized Enforcement
              Authority determines are required to ensure that the project will
              protect water resources and complies with the requirements of this
              By-Law; or
     C.       disapprove the application and deny a permit if it finds that the
              proposed plan will not protect water resources or fails to meet the
              objectives of and/or comply with the requirements of this
              By-Law. If the Authorized Enforcement Authority finds that the
              applicant has submitted insufficient information to describe the
              site, the work or the effect of the work on water quality and runoff




                                      20
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                  volume, the Authorized Enforcement Authority may disapprove
                  the application, denying a permit.
         D.       If approved, the Authorized enforcement Authority shall require
                  hat the permit, in addition to the Plan as noted herein, shall be
                  placed on record at the Southern Essex Registry of Deeds. Upon
                  completion of the project and following approval of compliance
                  with the permit, the Authorized Enforcement Authority shall issue
                  a certificate of completion to be placed on record at the Southern
                  Essex Registry of Deeds.
9.       Project Changes

         The permittee, or his/her agent, must notify the agent of the Authorized
         Enforcement Authority in writing of any change or alteration of a land
         disturbing activity before the change or alteration occurs. If the agent of
         the Authorized Enforcement Authority determines that the change or
         alteration is significant, based on the design requirements listed in the rules
         and regulations adopted by the Authorized Enforcement Authority
         pursuant to this By-Law, if any, the agent of the Authorized Enforcement
         Authority may require that an amended application or a new full
         application be filed in accordance with this Section. If any unauthorized or
         unpermitted change or alteration from the Land Disturbance Permit occurs
         during land disturbing activities, the agent of the Authorized Enforcement
         Authority may require the Permittee to cease all work and/or require the
         installation of interim erosion and sedimentation control measures before
         approving the change or alteration.

ARTICLE VIII. Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan
The Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan shall contain sufficient information to
describe the nature and purpose of the proposed development, pre and post
construction conditions of the site and the adjacent areas and proposed erosion and
sedimentation controls. The applicant shall submit such material as is necessary to
show that the proposed development will comply with the design standards and
contain the information listed in the rules and regulations adopted by the Authorized
Enforcement Authority for administration of this By-Law, if any.

ARTICLE IX. Stormwater Management Plan
The Stormwater Management Plan shall contain sufficient information to describe
the nature and purpose of the proposed development, pre and post construction
conditions of the site and the adjacent areas and proposed best management
practices for the permanent management and treatment of stormwater. The




                                          21
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Stormwater Management Plan shall contain sufficient information for the
Authorized Enforcement Authority to evaluate the environmental impact,
effectiveness and acceptability of the measures proposed by the applicant for
reducing adverse impacts from stormwater. The Plan shall be designed to meet the
Massachusetts Stormwater Management Standards, as set forth in the Massachusetts
Stormwater Management Policy and the United States Department of
Environmental Protection’s Stormwater Management Handbook: Volumes I and II.
The Stormwater Management Plan shall fully describe the project in drawings and
narrative. The applicant shall submit such material as is required by the rules and
regulations adopted by the Authorized Enforcement Authority for the administration
of this By-Law, if any.

ARTICLE X.       Operation and Maintenance Plan

1.      Requirements
        An Operation and Maintenance Plan (O&M Plan) for the permanent storm
        water management system is required for all projects at the time of
        application. The O&M Plan shall be designed to ensure compliance with
        this By-Law and its Regulations, if any, and the Massachusetts Surface
        Water Quality Standards, 314 CMR 4.00, in all seasons and throughout the
        life of the system. The O&M Plan shall include any requirements deemed
        necessary by the Authorized Enforcement Authority to ensure compliance
        therewith, including, without limitation, a covenant. The Authorized
        Enforcement Authority shall make the final decision of what maintenance
        option is appropriate in a given situation. In making said decision, the
        Authorized Enforcement Authority will consider natural features, the
        proximity of the site to water bodies and wetlands, the extent of
        impervious surfaces, the size of the site, the types of stormwater
        management structures and the potential need for ongoing maintenance
        activities. Once approved by the Authorized Enforcement Authority, the
        O&M Plan shall be recorded at the Southern Essex District Registry of
        Deeds by and at the expense of the permittee, shall run with the land, shall
        remain on file with the Authorized Enforcement Authority and shall be an
        ongoing requirement. The O&M Plan shall conform to the requirements
        listed in the rules and regulations adopted by the Authorized Enforcement
        Authority for the administration of this By-Law, if any. Stormwater
        management easements shall be provided by the property owner(s) in areas
        and as necessary to carry out the required maintenance.

2.      Changes to Operation and Maintenance Plan




                                       22
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




      A.       The owner(s) of the stormwater management system must notify
               the Authorized Enforcement Authority or its agent of changes in
               ownership or assignment of financial responsibility.
      B.       The maintenance schedule in the Maintenance Agreement may be
               amended to achieve the purposes of this By-Law by mutual
               agreement of the Authorized Enforcement Authority and the
               responsible parties. Amendments must be in writing and signed
               by all responsible parties. Once the amended O&M Plan is
               signed, the Authorized Enforcement Authority shall file it with
               the Southern Essex District Registry of Deeds at the expense of
               the current owner(s).

ARTICLE XI.    Inspection and Site Supervision

1.    Preconstruction Meeting
      Prior to clearing, excavation, construction or any land disturbing activity
      requiring a permit, the applicant, the applicant’s technical representative,
      the general contractor, pertinent subcontractors and any person with
      authority to make changes to the project shall meet with the Authorized
      Enforcement Authority or its designated agent to review the permitted
      plans and proposed implementation.

2.    Inspection
      The Authorized Enforcement Authority or its designated agent shall make
      inspections as hereinafter required and shall either approve that portion of
      the work completed or shall notify the permittee wherein the work fails to
      comply with the approved plans and/or any conditions of approval. One
      copy of the approved plans and conditions of approval, signed by the
      Authorized Enforcement Authority, shall be maintained at the site during
      the progress of the work. To facilitate inspections, the permittee shall
      notify the agent of the Authorized Enforcement Authority within twenty-
      four (24) hours after each of the following events:
      A.       erosion and sediment control measures are in place and stabilized;
      B.       rough grading has been substantially completed;
      C.       final grading has been substantially completed;
      D.       bury inspection, prior to backfilling of any underground drainage
               or stormwater conveyance structures;
      E.       close of the construction season; and




                                     23
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



         F.       final landscaping (permanent stabilization) and project final
                  completion.

3.       Permittee Inspections
         The permittee or his/her agent shall conduct and document inspections of
         all control measures no less frequently than weekly or as specified in the
         permit, and prior to and following anticipated storm events. The purpose
         of such inspections will be to determine the overall effectiveness of the
         control plan, and the need for maintenance and/or additional control
         measures. The permittee or his/her agent shall submit monthly reports to
         the Authorized Enforcement Authority or designated agent in a format
         approved by the Authorized Enforcement Authority. The Authorized
         Enforcement Authority may require, as a condition of approval, that a
         professional environmental site monitor, approved by the Authorized
         Enforcement Authority, be retained by and paid for by the permittee to
         conduct such inspections and prepare and submit such reports to the
         Authorized Enforcement Authority or its designated agent.

4.       Access Permission
         To the extent permitted by law, or if authorized by the owner or other party
         in control of the property, the Authorized Enforcement Authority, its
         agents, officers and employees may enter upon privately owned property
         for the purpose of performing their duties under this By-Law and may
         make or cause to be made such examinations, surveys or samplings as the
         Authorized Enforcement Authority deems reasonably necessary to
         determine compliance with the permit.

ARTICLE XII. Surety

Prior to the start of land disturbance activity, the Authorized Enforcement Authority
may require the permittee to post a surety bond, irrevocable letter of credit, cash or
other acceptable security. The form of the bond shall be approved by Town
Counsel, and shall be in an amount deemed sufficient by the Authorized
Enforcement Authority to ensure that the work will be completed in accordance
with the permit. If the project is phased, the Authorized Enforcement Authority
may release part of the bond as each phase is completed in compliance with the
permit, but the bond may not be fully released until the Authorized Enforcement
Authority has received the final report as required by Article XIII and issued a
certificate of completion.




                                         24
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



ARTICLE XIII. Final Reports

Upon completion of the work, the permittee shall submit a report, including
certified, as built construction plans, from a Registered Professional Engineer (P.E.)
certifying that all requirements of the permit and any approved changes and
modifications thereto have been completed in accordance with the conditions of the
approved permit.

ARTICLE XIV. Enforcement

1.       Authority
         The Authorized Enforcement Authority or its authorized agent shall
         enforce this By-Law, the rules and regulations adopted pursuant hereto, if
         any, and all orders, violation notices and/or enforcement orders, and may
         pursue all civil and criminal remedies for such violations.

2.       Orders

A.                The Authorized Enforcement Authority or an authorized agent of
                  the Authorized Enforcement Authority may issue a written order
                  to enforce the provisions of this By-Law or the rules and
                  regulations adopted pursuant hereto, if any, which may include (i)
                  a requirement to cease and desist from the land-disturbing activity
                  until there is compliance with the By-Law and provisions of the
                  land-disturbance permit; (ii) maintenance, installation or
                  performance of additional erosion and sedimentation control
                  measures; (iii) monitoring, analyses and reporting; or (iv)
                  remediation of erosion and sedimentation resulting directly or
                  indirectly from the land disturbing activity.

B.       If the enforcing person or entity determines that abatement or remediation
         of erosion and sedimentation is required, the order shall set forth a deadline
         by which such abatement or remediation must be completed. Said order
         shall further advise that, should the permittee or property owner fail to
         abate or perform remediation within the specified deadline, the Town of
         Marblehead may, at its option, undertake such work, and the permittee or
         property owner shall reimburse the Town’s for the cost thereof.

C.       Within thirty (30) days after completing all measures necessary to abate the
         violation or to perform remediation, the permittee and the property owner




                                         25
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



       shall be notified of the costs incurred by the Town of Marblehead,
       including administrative costs. The permittee or property owner may file a
       written protest objecting to the amount or basis of costs with the
       Authorized Enforcement Authority within thirty (30) days of receipt of
       said notification. If the amount due is not received by the expiration of the
       time in which to file a protest or within thirty (30) days following a
       decision of the Authorized Enforcement Authority affirming or reducing
       the costs, or from a final decision of a court of competent jurisdiction to
       that effect, the costs shall become a special assessment against the property
       owner and shall constitute a lien on the owner’s property for the amount
       thereof. Interest shall begin to accrue on any unpaid costs at the statutory
       rate, as provided in M.G.L. Ch. 59, § 57, after the thirty-first day following
       the day on which the costs were due.

3.     Criminal Penalty
       Any person who violates any provision of this By-Law, the rules and
       regulations adopted pursuant hereto, if any, or an order or permit issued
       hereunder shall be punished by a fine of not more than $300.00 for each
       offense. Each day or part thereof that such violation occurs or continues
       shall constitute a separate offense.

4.     Non-Criminal Disposition
       As an alternative to criminal prosecution or civil action, the Town of
       Marblehead may elect to utilize the non-criminal disposition procedure set
       forth in M.G.L. Ch. 40, §21D, in which case the Authorized Enforcement
       Authority or authorized agent shall be the enforcing person. The penalty
       for each violation shall be $300.00. Each day or part thereof that such
       violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense.

5.     Appeals
       All decisions, permits or orders of the Authorized Enforcement Authority
       shall be final. Further relief shall be sought only in a court of competent
       jurisdiction.

6.     Remedies Not Exclusive
       The remedies listed in this By-Law are not exclusive of any other remedies
       vailable under any applicable federal, state or local law.

ARTICLE XV. Certificate of Completion




                                       26
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



The Authorized Enforcement Authority will issue a Certificate of Completion upon
receipt and approval of the final reports and/or upon otherwise determining that all
work under the permit has been satisfactorily completed in conformance with this
By-Law and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant hereto, if any. The
Certificate of Completion shall be recorded at the Essex Southern District Registry
of Deeds by the property owner(s) and at the property owner(s) expense.

ARTICLE XVI. Severability

If any provision, paragraph, sentence or clause of this By-Law or the application
hereof to any person, establishment or circumstance shall be held invalid for any
reason, all other provisions shall continue in full force and effect to the extent
permitted by law. Or take any other action thereto.

Article 23 Public Shade Tree By-Law
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Marblehead By-Laws by adding a new
Article IV in Chapter 177, Public Shade Trees, Protection and Fines, as follows:
1.       Add a new Article IV in Chapter 177, as follows:
         Public Shade Trees, Protection and Fines:
          Marblehead which are approved by the Board of Selectmen, may be
         penalized by a non-criminal disposition in the manner provided in chapter
         40, section 21D of the General Laws. For the purpose of this section, the
         specific penalty which is to apply for violation of said Regulations shall be
         listed below and the Town officer or employee whose title(s) are listed
         shall be deemed the enforcing officer(s) for the Regulations.
         Public Shade Tree Regulations:
         Penalty for violation of the Public Shade Tree Regulations shall be as
         follows:
         $300 for each offense and on each day a violation exists may be deemed to
         be a separate offense. An offense shall be deemed to occur on each day
         from the day the offense(s) occurs through the date upon which a public
         hearing resulting in the resolution of the offense(s) is closed as determined
         by the Tree Warden; and
         Said penalty shall be paid in accordance with G.L. c. 40 §21D. This
         section shall be enforced by the Tree Warden. Or take any other action
         thereto.

Article 24 Town Bylaws Section 209-7. Digging, dredging or removal of
materials




                                         27
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



To see if the Town will vote to add the following sentences to the end of Section
209-7 of Chapter 209: Conservation Areas:
Any person or organization performing or causing to be performed the above
described activities shall remove, restore and rehabilitate at their expense the area
on which material has been dug, dredged, removed, dumped or otherwise disposed
of. The removal, restoration and rehabilitation shall be done as defined by and
within the time frame specified by the Conservation Commission. In addition to the
foregoing removal, restoration and rehabilitation, a fine in accordance with
paragraph 209-14 may be levied against the person or organization causing the
removal.

Article 25 Town Bylaws Section 209-5, Cutting or removal of trees, flowers
and other plants
To see if the Town will vote to eliminate Section 209-5 of Chapter 209:
Conservation Areas of the Town Bylaws as it currently reads and replace it with a
new Section 209-5 to read as follows:
Section 209-5. Cutting or removal of trees, flowers and other plants.
Except pursuant to authority granted under paragraph 209-4 above, the following
applies:
1.        DEFINITIONS:
         “Vegetation” applies to trees, bushes, plants, shrubs, flowers, grasses.
         They can be live or dead, naturally occurring or human introduced.
         “Removal” means cutting, pruning, digging, poisoning, damaging,
         covering with yard waste or any similar action resulting in the loss of the
         vegetation.
         “Conservation Lands” means those lands currently under the jurisdiction of
         the Marblehead Conservation Commission.
2.        REQUIREMENTS:
         No vegetation is to be removed from conservation lands without the
         expressed, written permission of the Marblehead Conservation
         Commission.
         In the event vegetation is removed without the permission of the
         Marblehead Conservation Commission, all removed vegetation must be
         replaced or replanted with identical vegetation or its equivalent (to be
         approved by the Commission).
Example: a tree with a diameter of one inch (measured six inches from its base)
should be replaced with the same size tree.
Example: a tree with a diameter of five inches (measured twelve inches from its
base) should be replaced with five trees measuring one inch diameter six inches
from their base.




                                        28
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



All expenses incurred with the replacement or replanting are to be borne by the
person or organization causing the original removal.
The replaced or replanted vegetation must have a survival rate of at least 70% of the
replaced or replanted vegetation at the end of two years after the replacement or
replanting. If the 70% survival rate is not met at the end of the two year period,
sufficient additional vegetation must be planted to achieve the 70% survival rate at
the end of an additional two year period.
In addition to the foregoing replacement or replanting, a fine in accordance with
paragraph 209-14 may be levied against the person or organization causing the
removal.

Article 26 Financial Assistance for Conservation
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Conservation Commission and other
proper officers of the Town to apply for financial assistance from public and private
sources to be expended by the Conservation Commission for the purchase of vacant
land and any other purpose, authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General
Laws as amended, or to reimburse the Town for sums of money expended for such
purposes, or both, and to take any other action relative thereto

Article 27 Robinson Farm Land
To see if the Town will vote to place the land known as the Robinson Farm,
purchased on December 1, 2005 pursuant to the approval by voters of Article 25 of
the Annual Town Meeting of May 2nd and 3rd, 2005, and subsequently approved
under a town-wide referendum, under the care, custody and control of the
Marblehead Conservation Commission to be used for open space purposes, or take
any other action relative thereto.

Article 28 Land Acquisition
To see if the town will vote to purchase or otherwise acquire a portion of a certain
parcel of land owned by William Hawkes Jr. and located on Norman Street
adjacent to Redd’s Pond (Assessor Map 170 Lot 9 ) for open space purposes to
determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or
take any other action relative thereto.

Article 29 Amend Bylaw - Alternate Members
To see if the town will vote to amend the town by-law as follows:
(bold text added) Amend           Chapter 24 BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND
COMMITTEES, Article IV Planning Board paragraph 24-6 Membership, first
paragraph which presently reads as follows: A Planning board of five members
hereby is established under Chapter 41, Section 81A of the General Laws. To read




                                        29
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



instead; A Planning board of five members and an alternate member hereby is
established under Chapter 41, Section 81A of the General Laws. And add a
sentence at the end of the paragraph which reads
“Alternate members shall be appointed by a majority vote of the Board of
Selectmen and the Planning Board.
Or take any other action relative thereto.

Article 30 Adopt Chapter 39 Section 32D
To see if the town will adopt chapter 39 section 32D of the Massachusetts General
Laws allowing that a member of any municipal board, committee or commission
when holding an adjudicatory hearing shall not be disqualified from voting on the
matter solely due to that members absence from no more than a single session of the
hearing at which testimony or other evidence is received. Or take any other action
relative thereto

Article 31 Amend Chapter 13, ANIMALS, of the General By-Law
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 13 , of the Town By-laws to allow
dogs to run in a Town designated dog park as follows:
          a.       Article III Dogs, Section 13.5 Running At Large which presently
                   reads:
          “No person owning, harboring or having custody and control of a dog shall
          permit such dog to be at large in the Town of Marblehead at any time,
          elsewhere than on the premises of the owner, except it be on the premises
          of another person with the knowledge and assent of such person shall
          control and restrain such dog by a leash of appropriate length. Whoever
          violates the provisions of this section shall pay a fine in accordance with
          the following schedule:
     A. First offense within calendar year: $25.
     B. Second or subsequent offense within calendar year: $50.”
     a. to read as follows: “No person owning, harboring or having custody and
     control of a dog shall permit such dog to be at large in the Town of Marblehead
     at any time, elsewhere than on the premises of the owner except;
               1. it be on the premises of another person with the knowledge and
                   assent of such person, or
               2. it be in a Dog Park established by the Town for the specific
                   purpose to allow dogs to run;
and otherwise the dog shall be controlled and restrained by a leash of
appropriate length. Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall pay a
fine in accordance with the following schedule:
          A. First offense within calendar year: $25.




                                        30
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



         B. Second or subsequent offense within calendar year: $50.
b.        Article III Dogs, Section 13-11. Seasonal prohibition of dogs from certain
         areas. which presently reads: “ No person owning, harboring or having
         custody or control of a dog shall permit such dog to be on any public
         cemetery of the Town at any time throughout the year, nor shall such
         person permit such dog to be on any public beach, athletic area,
         playground or park of the Town between May 1 and October 1 of each
         year, provided, however, that this prohibition shall not apply to Chandler
         Hovey Park, Crocker Park, Fort Sewell, Fountain Park, Upper Seaside
         Park, Riverhead Beach. Whoever violates the provisions of this section
         shall pay a fine in accordance with the following schedule:
         A.        First offense in calendar year: $25.
         B.        Second or subsequent offense within calendar year: $50.”
b.       to read as follows: “ No person owning, harboring or having custody or
         control of a dog shall permit such dog to be on any public cemetery of the
         Town at any time throughout the year, nor shall such person permit such
         dog to be on any public beach, athletic area, playground or park of the
         Town between May 1 and October 1 of each year, provided, however, that
         this prohibition shall not apply to Chandler Hovey Park, Crocker Park, Fort
         Sewall, Fountain Park, Upper Seaside Park, Riverhead Beach or the Town
         designated Dog Park. Whoever violates the provisions of this section
         shall pay a fine in accordance with the following schedule:
         A.        First offense in calendar year: $25.
         B.        Second or subsequent offense within calendar year: $50.”
Or take any other action relative thereto.

Article 32 Land Transfer
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Conservation Commission to transfer
land abutting and within the old landfill for purposes of remediating and capping the
old landfill area(s) located off Blueberry and Stoneybrook Roads.
Specifically described as: Town of Marblehead Parcels 161-2-0 and 161-3-0
(formerly owned by Dixey) to the Board of Health.

Article 33 Landfill Assessment and
Regulatory Compliance Activities
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for continued water quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk
assessment, engineering and any other services related to the Old Landfill; to
determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or
take any action relative thereto.




                                        31
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Article 34 Disposal Area Remediation, Closure and Post Closure Use Option 1
(One)
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money to be
expended by the Board of Health for the design of a cap and post closure use of the
area(s) encompassing the Old Landfill; (selection of this option would provide
funds for design of a landfill cap, retain the existing Transfer Station and Recycling
Drop-Off Area with no yard waste disposal post closure use) to determine whether
this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other
action relative thereto.

Article 35 Disposal Area Remediation and Closure Option 1 (One) A
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for the design of a cap and remediation for the area(s)
encompassing the Old Landfill; (this design option caps the old landfill and closes
the entire facility) to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by
borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto.

Article 36 Disposal Area Remediation, Closure and Post Closure Use Option 2
(Two)
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for the design of a cap and post closure use of the area(s)
encompassing the Old Landfill; (selection of this option would provide funds for
design of a landfill cap, and retains existing Transfer Station with a new Recycling
Drop-Off Area, and yard waste disposal post closure use) to determine whether this
appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action
relative thereto.

Article 37 Disposal Area Remediation, Closure and Post Closure Use Option 3
(Three)
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for the design of a cap and post closure use of the area(s)
encompassing the Old Landfill; (selection of this option would provide funds for
design of a landfill cap, design a new Transfer Station to replace the existing
Transfer Station and Recycling Drop-Off Area as well as design for continued yard
waste disposal as a post closure use) to determine whether this appropriation shall
be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto.

Article 38 Amend zoning Map Rezoning a Single Residence Area to Business
To see if the Town will vote to:




                                         32
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Revise the Zoning Map of the Town by taking an area that is presently zoned Single
Residence and changing its designation to Business. This area to be rezoned is
described as follows:
The lot of land with building thereon known as an numbered 242-260 Humphrey
Street, Marblehead, Massachusetts, being Assessor’s Map 4, Parcel 14, as shown on
the plan entitled “Site Plan 242-260 Humphrey Street, Marblehead, MA, Land of
Beach Bluff, LLC” of Easements, Lafayette Tides”, dated November 7, 2006,
prepared by Kane Land Surveyors, a copy of which plan is on file in the Office of
the Town Clerk,. Or take any other action relative thereto.

Article 39 Land Acquisition
To see if the Town Meeting will vote to purchase or otherwise acquire a certain
parcel of land owned by Mario and Camille Angenica and located on Longview
Drive West (Assessor Map 21 Lot 19) for the purpose of open space; to determine
whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; take any other
action relative thereto.

Article 40 Grant Access and Maintenance Easements
To see if the Town will vote to:
Authorize the Board of Selectmen, with the approval of Town Counsel as to form,
to execute and record all necessary and appropriate documents to effectuate the
grant of all or any portion of the easements for utility installation, construction and
maintenance purposes, and for emergency and public access and maintenance
purposes, as described in Article 41 and shown on the plan entitled “Plan of
Easements, Lafayette Tides in Marblehead, Mass.”, dated January 23, 2007,
prepared by Hayes Engineering, Inc. Civil Engineers & Land Surveyors, a copy of
which plan is on file in the Office of the Town Clerk, in exchange for appropriate
consideration and provided the owner of said 485 Lafayette Street pays the Town’s
costs of effectuating said transaction. Or take any other action relative thereto

Article 41 Grant Access and Maintenance Easements
To see if the Town will vote to:
Instruct the Board of Selectmen, the Water and Sewer Commission and the
Municipal Light Department, with the approval of Town Counsel as to form, to
grant certain permanent and/or temporary easements for utility installation,
construction and maintenance purposes, and for emergency and public access and
maintenance purposes, in conjunction with the development of that parcel of land
known as and numbered 485 Lafayette Street, Marblehead, Massachusetts, and to
allow the Board of Selectmen, the Water and Sewer Commission and the Municipal
Light Department to more specifically define the easement area within which that




                                         33
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



area shown on a plan entitled “Plan of Easements, Lafayette Tides in Marblehead,
Mass.”, dated January 23, 2007, prepared by Hayes Engineering, Inc. Civil
Engineers & Land Surveyors, a copy of which plan is on file in the Office of the
Town Clerk. Or take any other action relative thereto.

Article 42 Acquire Utility Easements
To see if the Town will vote to:
Authorize the Board of Selectmen, with the approval of Town Counsel as to form,
to execute and record all necessary and appropriate documents to effectuate the
acquisition, purchase or acceptance of all or any portion of the easements for utility
installation, construction and maintenance purposes, as described in Article 43 and
shown on the plan entitled “Plan of Easements, Lafayette Tides in Marblehead,
Mass.”, dated January 23, 2007, prepared by Hayes Engineering, Inc. Civil
Engineers & Land Surveyors, a copy of which plan is on file in the Office of the
Town Clerk, in exchange for appropriate consideration and provided the owner of
said 485 Lafayette Street pays the Town’s costs of effectuating said transaction. Or
take any other action relative thereto.

Article 43 Acquire Utility Easements
To see if the Town will vote to:
Instruct the Board of Selectmen, the Water and Sewer Commission and the
Municipal Light Department, with the approval of Town Counsel as to form, to
acquire by gift or purchase or take by eminent domain certain permanent and/or
temporary easements for utility installation, construction and maintenance purposes,
in conjunction with the development of that parcel of land known as and numbered
485 Lafayette Street, Marblehead, Massachusetts, and to allow the Board of
Selectmen, the Water and Sewer Commission and the Municipal Light Department
to more specifically define the easement area within which that area shown on a
plan entitled “Plan of Easements, Lafayette Tides in Marblehead, Mass.”, dated
January 23, 2007, prepared by Hayes Engineering, Inc. Civil Engineers & Land
Surveyors, a copy of which plan is on file in the Office of the Town Clerk. Or take
any other action relative thereto.

Article 44 Transfer Existing Easement
To see if the Town will vote to:
Instruct the Water and Sewer Commission and the Municipal Light Department,
with the approval of Town Counsel as to form, to transfer the care, custody,
management and control of all or any portion of the utility easement on that parcel
of land known as and numbered 485 Lafayette Street, Marblehead, Massachusetts,
shown as “20’ WIDE EASEMENT” on a plan entitled “Town of Marblehead Light




                                         34
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Department Easement for Electric Lines Former Lead Mills”, dated May 22, 1969,
prepared by George H. Clark, Jr. Engineer, and recorded with the Essex South
Registry of Deeds with the Deed on Certificate of Title Number 38093 Registration
Book 168, Page 38093, to the Board of Selectmen for the purpose of releasing,
conveying, transferring, exchanging or otherwise disposing of all or any portion of
said easement in exchange for a substantially similar utility easement. Or take any
other action relative thereto

Article 45 Release Existing Easement
To see if the Town will vote to:
Authorize the Board of Selectmen, with the approval of town counsel as to form, to
release, convey, transfer, exchange or otherwise dispose of all or any portion of the
utility easement described in Article 44 as follows: all or any portion of the utility
easement on that parcel of land known and numbered 485 Lafayette Street,
Marblehead, Massachusetts, shown as “20’ WIDE EASEMENT” on a plan entitled
“Town of Marblehead Light Department Easement for Electric Lines Former Lead
Mills”, dated May 22, 1969, prepared by George H. Clark, Jr. Engineer, and
recorded with the Essex South Registry of Deeds with the Deed on Certificate of
Title Number 38093 Registration Book 168, Page 38093, in exchange for a
substantially similar utility easement as shown on a plan entitled “Plan of
Easements, Lafayette Tides in Marblehead, Mass.”, dated January 23, 2007,
prepared by Hayes Engineering, Inc. Civil Engineers & Land Surveyors, a copy of
which plan is on file in the Office of the Town Clerk. Or take any other action
relative thereto.

Article 46 Amend Zoning By-Law to
Establish Multifamily Residence District
To see if the Town will vote to:
Amend the Zoning By-Law of the Town to establish a Multifamily Residence
District as follows:
(a)       Article III Zoning Districts – Section 200-8. Establishment of districts,
Subsection A. Zone districts, to insert after “SG-R Shoreline General Residence”
the following class of district: “M-R Multifamily Residence”
(b)       Article III Zoning Districts – Section 200-9.
Interpretation of zone district boundaries., to add the following subsection:
“E. Multifamily District boundaries. Where a Multifamily Residence District is
immediately adjacent to a river or shoreline, its boundaries shall be determined
consistent with the provisions for Shoreline and Harborfront Districts contained in
subsection D above.




                                         35
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



(c) Article IV Use Regulations – Section 200-15, Subsection B(5) which presently
reads: “Not more than one principal dwelling or other principal building shall be
constructed or placed on a lot.” to read as follows: “In all districts except a
Multifamily Residence District, not more than one principal dwelling or other
principal building shall be constructed or placed on a lot.”
(d)       Article V Dimensional Regulations – Section 200-16. Additional
dimensional provisions, Subsection D Maximum front yard setback. which now
reads: “In all districts the maximum setback, measured through the lot, shall not
exceed twice the lot frontage.” to read as follows: “In all districts except a
Multifamily Residence District, the maximum setback, measured through the lot,
shall not exceed twice the lot frontage.”
(e)       Article V Dimensional Regulations – Section 200-16.
Additional dimensional provisions, Subsection E Minimum Lot width. which
presently reads “The width of a lot shall not at any point be less than 75% of the
required lot frontage (for corner lots only the frontage opposite the rear lot line)
without having first obtained a special permit for use and dimension from the Board
of Appeals. (See the definition of “lot width” in §200-7).” to read as follows: “In all
districts except a Multifamily Residence District, the width of a lot shall not at any
point be less than 75% of the required lot frontage (for corner lots only the frontage
opposite the rear lot line) without having first obtained a special permit for use and
dimension from the Board of Appeals. (See the definition of “lot width” in §200-7).
(f)       Article V Dimensional Regulations – Section 200-16. Additional
dimensional provisions, Subsection G Maximum building height. which now
reads: “In all zone districts the maximum height of any building shall be 35 feet
excepting the five Shoreline Districts and the Harborfront District where the
maximum height for all buildings shall be 30 feet” to read as follows: “In all zone
districts the maximum height of any building shall be 35 feet excepting the five
Shoreline Districts and the Harborfront District where the maximum height for all
buildings shall be 30 feet. In addition, in a Multifamily Residence District the
maximum height of new construction multifamily dwellings shall be 48 feet
measured from the highest point of the finished grade of the ground adjoining the
building to the highest point of any roof or parapet, which may not be altered by the
Board of Appeals by special permit. Height limitation shall not apply to chimneys.”
(g)       Article IX Special Permits – Section 200-37 Special Permit for site
plan review., Subsection A Applicability, subpart (3), which now reads:
“(3) Any construction or external addition provided that the addition exceeds 500
square feet in gross floor area in any of the five Shoreline Districts or in the
Harborfront District” to read as follows: “(3) Any construction or external addition
provided that the addition exceeds 500 square feet in gross floor area in any of the
five Shoreline Districts or in either the Harborfront District or Multifamily District.”




                                          36
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



(h)        Table 1 Land Use Regulations, to revise the classifications of Land Use
Regulations as shown on Table 1 by adding a column between that for the G-R &
SG-R districts and that for the B districts for the M-R districts as follows: except for
Multifamily dwelling all classification shall be the same as those of the SS-R
districts, and the classification for Multifamily dwelling shall be “Yes”.
(i)        Table 2 Dimensional Regulations, to revise the dimensional regulations
as shown on Table 2 by adding two rows for the Multifamily Residence district, one
for One-family dwellings which shall be the same as that for One-family dwellings
in a Shoreline Single Residence district, and one for Multifamily dwellings which
with footnotes shall provide as follows:

Max Ht.                    (9)
Lot Area (sq. ft.)         (7)
Min. Frontage (feet)       300
Min. Front Setback         0
Min. Side Setback          0
Min. Rear Setback          0
Min. Open Area             (8)

(7) 100,000 square feet or 4,000 square feet per unit, whichever is greater, which
cannot be altered by the Board of Appeals by special permit.
(8) One square foot of total lot area for each square foot of gross floor area,
excluding from gross floor area below grade parking areas and maneuvering areas.
(9) 48 feet measured from the highest point of the finished grade of the ground
adjoining the building to the highest point of any roof or parapet, which may not be
altered by the Board of Appeals by special permit. Height limitation shall not apply
to chimneys. Or take any other action relative thereto.

Article 47 Amend Zoning Map Rezoning a Shoreline Single Residence Area to
Multifamily Residence
To see if the Town will vote to:
Revise the Zoning Map of the Town by taking an area that is presently zoned
Shoreline Single Residence and changing its designation to Multifamily Residence.
This area to be rezoned is described as follows:
The 300-foot wide strip of land that has the Marblehead/Salem boundary line along
the Forest River as its northwesterly boundary and that begins at the Leggs Hill
Road Marblehead/Salem boundary line and continues in a northeasterly direction to
the mouth of the Forest River at Salem Harbor; thence this 300-foot wide strip, now
with the shoreline of Salem Harbor as its northwesterly boundary, continues in a
northeasterly direction for approximately 800-feet, as measured along the shoreline




                                          37
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



of Salem Harbor, to include a 300-foot wide strip of the property of the Town of
Marblehead shown on the Town of Marblehead Assessors Maps as Map 59, Parcel
10 and Map 55, Parcel 2. Or take any other action relative thereto.

Article 48 Layout and acceptance of Tioga Way
To see if the Town will vote to accept and allow the layout of Tioga Way as a Town
Way as made by the Selectmen and authorize the Selectmen to take by eminent
domain or otherwise the lands included in said layout and raise and appropriate a
sum of money for the payment of land damages and for the construction of said
way, or to take any other action relative thereto.

Article 49 Land Acquisition
To see if the Town of Marblehead will vote to acquire for conservation and
recreation purposes a fee simple interest in certain parcel(s) of land totaling
approximately three acres, commonly known as the WESX property, located on
Naugus Avenue, owned by ATCO Inc. or the Trust for Public Land, which are
shown on Marblehead Assessors Maps as Map 176 Lot 16, which land shall be held
in the care and custody of the Conservation Commission pursuant to Massachusetts
provisions of Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 40, Section 8C, as it may
hereafter be amended and other Massachusetts statutes relating to Conservation
and/or Recreation; that a sum of money be appropriated for such purpose and to
raise such appropriation, the Treasurer be authorized to borrow under and pursuant
to Chapter 44, Section 7 and 8C, and if applicable Chapter 40, Section 8C, of the
General Laws or any other enabling authority, and to issue bonds or notes of the
Town therefor; provided that the amount authorized to be borrowed hereunder shall
be contingent upon the vote of the Town Election to exempt from the provisions of
Proposition 2-1/2, so called, the amount required to satisfy the obligations,
including principal and interest, under the bonds; and further than the Marblehead
Conservation Commission shall be authorized to file on behalf of the Town of
Marblehead any and all applications deemed necessary for grants and /or
reimbursements from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts or the United States
under the Self-Help Act (Chapter 132A, Section 11) and/or any other state or
federal programs including those in aid of conservation or recreation land
acquisition and to receive and accept such grants and reimbursements, including
grants from private parties, for this purpose and/or any others in any way connected
with the scope of this Article; and the Conservation Commission in conjunction
with the Board of Selectmen shall be authorized to transfer the amount of any
financial contributions received by the Town of Marblehead designated for the
purchase of the Naugus Avenue land to the Trust for Public Land; and the
Conservation Commission in conjunction with the Board of Selectmen shall be




                                        38
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



authorized to enter into all agreements and to execute any and all instruments as
may be necessary on behalf of The Town of Marblehead to affect said purchase; or
take any other action in relation thereto.

Article 50 Capital Improvements
Abbot Public Library
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
remodeling or making extraordinary repairs, including all professional architectural,
design or engineering fees, to the Abbot Public Library and to determine whether
this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other
action relative thereto.
Article 51 Ratification of Salary By-law
To see if the Town will vote to ratify certain actions taken by the Compensation
Committee under Chapter 121 of the By-law, as last amended and amend the
classification of positions as follows:

1. Reclassify positions in the Administrative Pay Schedule:
         a. Director Council on Aging from Group 54 to Group 55
         b. Assistant Sewer/Water Superintendent from Group 54 to Group 55
2. Reclassify and change job title in the Administrative Pay schedule:
         a. One Accounting position from Group 51 to Group 52 with the new title
         of Accounting and Website Assistant
         b. Senior Clerk position in the Payroll Office reclassified as an
         Administrative Clerk Group 50
3. Addition of position title and grade to Temporary Personnel Pay Scale
         a. Add Heavy Equipment Operator Group 26 to Temporary Personnel Pay
         Schedule.
Or take any other action relative thereto.

Article 52 Causeway Seawalls
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the construction
and/or reconstruction of the Ocean Avenue Causeway Seawall for the protection of
highways, property and harbor, including engineering services in connection
therewith; to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or
otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto.

Article 53 Fiscal 2007 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, to defray the
necessary and usual expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal
year




                                        39
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



beginning July 1, 2006, to be added to Article 49 of the May 2006 Annual Town
Meeting, or take any other action relative thereto,

Article 54 Compensation - Town Officers
To see if the Town will vote to revise the compensation of the Town Clerk as the
Town by vote may determine and to transfer from available funds and/or
appropriate a sum of money to make said revision effective or take any other action
relative thereto, .

Article 55 Available Funds Appropriate to Reduce Tax Rate
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate free cash balance in the hands of the
Town Treasurer, including any surplus or part of any surplus, in the Water, Sewer,
Harbor and Waters and Electric Light Departments for the use of the Assessors in
making the tax rate or take any other action relative thereto.

Article 56 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the necessary and
usual expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2007, or take any other action relative thereto.

Article 57 Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the supplemental
expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning July
1, 2007, or take any other action relative thereto.
You are hereby further required and directed to notify and warn the Inhabitants of
the Town of Marblehead aforesaid who are qualified to vote in elections and in
Town affairs to subsequently meet at the several designated polling places in their
respective precincts in said Marblehead to wit:

In Precinct 1 - Polling Place –
OLD TOWN HOUSE
In Precinct 2 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 3 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 4 - Polling Place –




                                        40
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 5 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 6 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 7 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER

on Monday, the 14th day of May next A.D. 2007 (it being the second Monday in
May) at 7 o’clock in the forenoon then and there to bring into the precinct officers
of their respective precincts their votes on one ballot for the following-named Town
Officers to wit:

5 Selectmen
1 Town Clerk
1 Assessor
1 Cemetery Commissioner
1 Board of Health
2 Library Trustees
2 Electric Light Commissioners
1 Moderator
1 Planning Board
5 Recreation & Park Commissioners
2 School Committee
2 Water and Sewer Commissioners

For these purposes the polls will be open at each and all of said precincts at 7
o’clock in the forenoon and will be closed at 8 o’clock in the afternoon at each and
all of said precincts and you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested
copies thereof at Abbot Hall and ten (10) other conspicuous places in Town as
required by the By-laws not later than thirty (30) days after being closed.

Hereof fail not and make due return of this Warrant or a certified copy thereof with
our doings thereon, to each of the several precinct wardens at the time and place of
meetings aforesaid and to the Town Clerk as soon as may be before the said
meetings.




                                         41
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



        Given under our hands at Marblehead aforesaid this 14th day of February
        2007.

                Harry C. Christensen, Jr., Chairman

                Jackie Belf-Becker

                Judith R. Jacobi

                James E. Nye

                Jeffrey N. Shribman

                Selectmen of Marblehead

A True Copy Attest: Cabot W. Dodge, Constable




                                      42
                            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                              Marblehead Massachusetts
                               Annual Town Election
                               Monday May 14th, 2007

The Number of Votes Cast were as follows:

Precinct 1        627                   28.1% of 2,229 Registered Voters
Precinct 2        471                   23.5% of 2,004 Registered Voters
Precinct 3        457                   24.4% of 1,867 Registered Voters
Precinct 4        524                   24.5% of 2,131 Registered Voters
Precinct 5        377                   18.5% of 2,033 Registered Voters
Precinct 6        486                   22.3% of 2,175 Registered Voters
Precinct 7        593                   28.2% of 2,101 Registered Voters
Total             3535                  24.3% of 14,540 Registered Voters

             Canvass Completed at 8:55pm


                                 Selectmen 1 Year Term

                                        Vote for Five

Precinct                     1      2       3      4      5      6        7      Total
Blanks                       791    646     655    691    549    643      851    4826
Jackie Belf-Becker           419    300     279    339    261    327      352    2277
Harry Christensen            436    320     321    362    247    344      415    2445
Judith R. Jacobi             464    320     311    389    268    346      392    2490
James E. Nye                 417    304     286    366    236    344      395    2348
Rose Ann Wheeler McCarthy    154    143     130    139    105    119      148    938
William L. Woodfin, III      453    318     303    329    214    305      411    2333
Write-Ins                    1      4       0      5      5      2        1      18
Total                        3135   2355    2285   2620   1885   2430     2965   17675


                               Town Clerk – 3 Year Term
Precinct                      1     2    3      4    5    6              7    Total
Blanks                      7     6    5      21   17   24              7     87
E. Fredrick Armstrong       22    15   25     26   23   24              21    156
Gail Brown                  103 77     73     87   68   64              98    570
Robin A. Michaud            493 373 353 390 269 373                     466   2717
Write-Ins                   2     0    1      0    0    1               1     5
Total                       627 471 457 524 377 486                     593   3535




                                             43
                           MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                               Assessors 3 Year Term

                                      Vote for One

Precinct              1      2       3         4     5       6       7     Total
Blanks                201    160     140       178   131     175     214   1199
Anne Nancy McCarthy   425    310     317       345   244     309     379   2329
Write-Ins             1      1       0         1     2       2       0     7
Total                 627    471     457       524   377     486     593   3535


                       Cemetery Commission 3 Year Term

                                      Vote for One


Precinct                1         2           3         4        5       6        7   Total
Blanks                 204     159         156       183      121      177     242    1240
Benjamin A.            419     303         298       339      254      307     348    2268
Woodfin

Write-Ins              4       9           3         2        2        2       3      25

Total                  627     471         457       524      377      486     593    3535




                            Board of Health 3 Year Term

                                      Vote for One

                       1      2       3          4       5    6       7      Total
Precinct
Blanks                196    139     124       158   115     154     191     1077
Helaine R. Hazlett    431    331     332       366   261     330     402     2453
Write-Ins             0      1       1         0     1       2       0       5




                                               44
                           MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                     627         471     457    524     377     486     593    3535
Total


                  Abbot Public Library Trustee 3 Year Term
Vote for Two

Precinct               1          2       3      4       5       6       7       Total

Blanks                 380        306     267    340     276     322     388     2279

Judy S. Gates          422        302     300    351     236     313     382     2306

Philip W. Sweeney      450        332     347    357     240     335     416     2477

Write-Ins              2          2       0      0       2       2       0       8

Total                  1254       942     914    1048    754     972     1186    7070



                 Municipal Light Commissioner 3 Year Term
Vote for Two
Precinct                 1         2       3      4        5       6      7      Total
Blanks                 468        382     333    442      313     398    457     2793
Calvin T. Crawford     387        285     292    315      221     293    350     2143
Walter E. Homan        397        275     289    291      219     281    379     2131
Write-Ins               2          0       0      0        1       0      0        3
Total                  1254       942     914    1048     754     972    1186    7070


                                 Moderator 1 Year Term
Vote for One
Precinct          1         2       3      4      5       6       7      Total
Blanks           163       131     118    164    116     157     178     1027
Gary A. Spiess   464       338     339    358    260     328     415     2502
Write-Ins         0         2       0      2      1       1       0       6




                                                45
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Total            627    471    457    524    377       486   593     3535



                          Planning Board 3 Year Term
Vote for Two
Precinct    1     2       3      4      5         6     7    Total
Blanks     594   443     419    498    350       457   558   3319
Write-Ins 33     28      38     26     27        29    35     216
Total      627   471     457    524    377       486   593   3535




                Recreation and Park Commission 1 Year Term
Vote for Five
Precinct                1      2     3     4      5     6                    7      Total
Blanks                1026 827      726  818     689   796                  976     5858
Linda Rice Collins     352    260   269  300     183   255                  334     1953
Sam K. Ganglani        315    232   239  298     216   284                  306     1890
Derek Y. Norcross      362    252   272  309     224   308                  334     2061
Todd R. Norman         322    226   227  279     219   265                  303     1841
Charles E.             367    280   268  333     180   285                  339     2052
Osborne,Jr
David C. Rodgers       391    275   284  283     174   233                  373     2013
Write-Ins               0      3     0     0      0     4                    0        7
Total                 3135 2355 2285 2620 1885 2430                         2965    17675

                         School Committee 3 Year Term
Vote for One
Precinct               1       2      3      4         5     6       7      Total
Blanks                 462     373    337    396       286   369     467    2690
Amy T. Drinker         423     302    329    344       266   324     380    2368
Jonathan Lederman      365     266    248    307       201   275     338    2000
Write-Ins              4       1      0      1         1     4       1      12
Total                  1254    942    914    1048      754   972     1186   7070
`

                    Water & Sewer Commission 3 Year Term




                                            46
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Vote for One
Precinct              1     2     3      4     5     6      7    Total
Blanks              388    294   260   370    269   333   360    2274
Wilbur E. Bassett    439   331   335    343   240   322    431   2441
F. Carlton Siegel    425   316   319   334    242   312   395    2343
Write-Ins             2     1     0      1     3     5      0     12
Total               1254   942   914   1048   754   972   1186   7070




                                       47
            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                Town of Marblehead
                Annual Town Meeting
                  May 7th, 8th & 9th
                        2007

ARTICLE 1    Articles in Numerical Order
             Voted:
             That the articles be taken up in their numerical order.

ARTICLE 2    Reports of Town Officers and Committees
             Voted:
             To receive the report of the town Accountant, the reports
             of the Town Officers, and Special Committee.

ARTICLE 3    Lease Town Property
             Voted:
             To allow the Board of Selectmen and School Committee
             to let or lease such land, buildings or structures owed by
             the Town on such terms as they may determine.

ARTICLE 4    Accept Trust Property
             Voted:
             That the Town accept certain trust property:

                 1.   Tyrone Bumpurs Scholarship Fund:
                      $12,374.73, plus any additional amounts that
                      may be paid, to be administered by the Board of
                      Selectmen.
ARTICLE 5    Assume Liability
             Voted:
             That the Town will assume liability in the manner
             provided by Section 29 of Chapter 91 of the General
             Laws as most recently amended by Chapter 5, Acts of
             1995, for all damages that may be incurred by the work
             to be performed by the Department of Public Works of
             Massachusetts for the improvement, development,
             maintenance and protection of tidal and non tidal rivers
             and streams, harbors, tidewaters, foreshores and shores
             along a public beach in accordance with Section II of
             Chapter 91 of the General Laws and authorize the




                           48
            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



             Selectmen to execute and deliver a bond of indemnity
             therefore to the Commonwealth.

ARTICLE 6    Unpaid Accounts
             Voted:
             To appropriate the sum of $4,372.00 to provide for the
             payment of any unpaid accounts brought forward from
             previous years, to be transferred from the following
             grants, revolving funds or Article 49, May 2006 Annual
             Town Meeting – Expenses of Several Departments as
             Follows:

             Item     064     Police Indemnification     1,354.00
             Item     101     School Budget              2,758.00
             Fiscal 2007 Metco Grant                       260.00

ARTICLE 7    North Shore Regional Vocational School District
             Voted:
             To approve the gross operating and maintenance budget
             of the North Shoe Regional Vocational School District
             and appropriate the sum of $129,597.00 for the town’s
             assessment of the same to be expended by the School
             Committee.

ARTICLE 8    Revolving Fund
             Voted:
             To create the following new revolving funds as required
             by M.G.L. Chapter 44, Section 53E ½ as recommended
             by the Board of Selectmen.

             1.       Special Education Revolving Fund in the
                     amount of $450,000. in fiscal 2008 for the use
                     of the School Committee; revenues to be take
                     from tuition collected for special education
                     students tuitioned in to the Marblehead Public
                     Schools and from funds collected to pay for the
                     other special education contracted services for
                     out of district special education students being
                     provided service through the North Shore
                     Special Education Consortium and other




                          49
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



       approved special education public and private
       placements; said funds to be expended on costs
       directly related to the special education
       programs provided to these out of district
       students.
2.     Storm Water by – law revolving Fund in the
       amount of $10,000 in fiscal 2008 for the use of
       the conservation Commission; to be taken from
       revenues in connection with receipts collected
       from application fees associated with the town’s
       storm water management and erosion control
       regulations; said funds to be expended for
       expenses related to the enforcement and
       administration of the Storm Water By-Law.
3.     Council on Aging Revolving Fund in the
       amount of $200,000 in fiscal 2008 for the use of
       the Council on Aging Board of Directors to be
       taken from revenues in connection with the
       meals on wheels, and nutrition programs, mini-
       bus donations, trips, miscellaneous programs,
       instructional classes, recreational programs,
       games and tournaments, luncheons, and
       entertainment, and other activities including
       program fees, fund raising, rentals,
       miscellaneous sales and promotional fees; said
       appropriation to be used for the expense of said
       activities and trips including equipment and
       promotions; and expended by the Council on
       Aging Board of Directors.
4.     Dog Officer/Animal Control Officer Revolving
       Fund in the amount of $20,000 in fiscal 2008
       for the use of the Dog Officer to be taken from
       revenues in connection with fees,
       reimbursements, deposits and refunds of animal
       medical expenses including spay and neuter
       expenses, miscellaneous other sales and various
       fund raising events; said appropriation to be
       used for the expense of said programs and
       activities including medical bills animal food,
       pet supplies and equipment, and promotional




           50
            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                      expenses; and expended by the Dog
                      Officer/Animal Control Officer.
            5.        RAD Program Revolving Fund in the amount of
                      $7,500.00 in fiscal 2008 for the use of the
                      Police Chief to be taken from revenues in
                      connection with tuition, fees, reimbursements,
                      miscellaneous sales, gifts and donations of the
                      RAD program; said appropriation to be used for
                      the expense of said program including salaries
                      and expenses including equipment.
            6.        School Tuition Revolving Fund in the amount
                      of $50,000.00 in fiscal 2008 for the use of the
                      School Committee to be taken from revenues in
                      connection with tuition’s from nonimmigrant
                      foreign students; said appropriation to be used
                      for the expenses of instruction including
                      salaries, instruction supplies and equipment.
            7.        Commercial Waste Revolving Fund in the
                      amount of $450,000.00 in fiscal 2008 for the
                      use of the Board of Health to be taken from
                      revenues in connection with commercial waste
                      disposal receipts; said fund to be expended for
                      the cost of solid Waste disposal.
            8.        Conservation Fines Revolving Fund in the
                      amount of $10,000.00 in fiscal 2008 for the use
                      of the Conservation Commission to be taken
                      from revenues in connection with receipts
                      collected from fines assessed by the
                      commission; said fund to be expended for
                      remediation of wetlands violations.
            9.        Sump Pump Improvement Revolving fund in
                      the amount of $25,000 in fiscal 2008 for the use
                      of Sewer and Water Commission; to be taken
                      from revenues connection with permitting fees;
                      said fund to be expended for the aid in removal
                      of sump pumps currently tied into the sewer
                      system.
ARTICLE 9      Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule
               (Administrative)
               Voted:




                           51
                               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                                 To amend Chapter 121 of the By-laws,
                                Classification and Wage Salary Plan, by
                                changing certain job titles where indicated and
                                reclassify certain positions in the
                                Administrative Pay Schedule; to wave Section8
                                of the 1955 Salary By-Law as last amended, by
                                striking out the pay schedule as it relates to
                                Administrative personnel, substitute in place
                                thereof the following new pay schedules as it
                                relates to said personnel:

                                ADMINISTRATIVE SALARY SCHEDULE
                                   EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2007 – 2%
Grade                  Title             Step 1   Step 2     Step 3    Step 4    Step 5
 59     Town Administrator              1568.14    1697.98   1827.81   1957.61   2087.45
 58                                     1411.62    1528.64   1645.68   1762.70   1879.74
 57     Dir Finance/Town Accountant     1271.19    1376.53   1481.83   1587.18   1692.50
        Police Chief
        Fire Chief
        Supt Water/Sewer
 56     Town Engineer                   1142.48    1237.55   1332.64   1427.72   1522.82
        Assistant Assessor
        Director Public Health
        Director Library
 55     Harbormaster                    1028.36    1113.94   1199.53   1285.10   1370.69
        Supt Recreation/Park
        Building Commissioner
        Director Public Works
        Director Council on Aging
        Assistant Supt Water/Sewer
        Town Planner
 54     Assistant Director Revenue       925.96    1002.38   1078.85   1155.28   1231.71
        Assistant Director Accounting
        Assistant Director Library
        Public Health Nurse




                                           52
                               MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



        Plumbing Inspector
        Wire Inspector
 53     Superintendent Cemetery           833.79     902.56    971.31   1040.08   1108.82
        Local Inspector Building
        Recreation Supervisor
        Assistant Wire Inspector
        Office Manager Sewer/Water
        Asst Director/Tree Warden
        Asst Director/Public Works
 52     Assistant Revenue Officer         782.60     836.74    890.84    944.99    999.09
        Health Inspector
        Veterans Agent/Sealer
        Accounting & Website
        Assistant
        Assistant Harbormaster
        Administrative Aid Selectmen
        Payroll Administrator
 51     Dog Officer                       743.10     791.38    839.65    887.94    936.22
        Accounting Assistant
 50     Administrative Clerk              668.52     713.88    759.20    804.56    849.94
 49                                       602.69     643.26    683.86    724.44    765.08


                                ADMINISTRATIVE SALARY SCHEDULE
                                   Effective January 1, 2008 - 1%
Grade                  Title              Step 1    Step 2    Step 3    Step 4    Step 5
 59     Town Administrator                1583.82   1714.96   1846.09   1977.19   2108.32
 58                                       1425.73   1543.93   1662.13   1780.33   1898.53
 57     Dir Finance/Town Accountant       1283.90   1390.30   1496.64   1603.05   1709.42
        Police Chief
        Fire Chief
        Supt Water/Sewer
 56     Town Engineer                     1153.91   1249.92   1345.97   1442.00   1538.05
        Assistant Assessor
        Director Public Health
        Director Library
 55     Harbormaster                      1038.65   1125.08   1211.53   1297.95   1384.39




                                            53
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



      Supt Recreation/Park
      Building Commissioner
      Director Public Works
      Assistant Supt Water/Sewer
      Director Council on Aging
      Town Planner
 54   Assistant Director Revenue          935.22    1012.41   1089.64   1166.84    1244.03
      Assistant Director Accounting
      Assistant Director Library
      Public Health Nurse
      Plumbing Inspector
      Wire Inspector
 53   Superintendent Cemetery             842.13     911.58    981.02   1050.48    1119.91
      Local Inspector Building
      Recreation Supervisor
      Assistant Wire Inspector
      Office Manager Sewer/Water
      Asst Director/Tree Warden
      Asst Director/Public Works
 52   Assistant Revenue Officer           790.42     845.10    899.75    954.44    1009.08
      Health Inspector
      Veterans Agent/Sealer
      Assistant Harbormaster
      Accounting & Website
      Assistant
      Administrative Aid Selectmen
      Payroll Administrator
 51   Dog Officer                         750.53     799.29    848.05    896.82     945.58
      Accounting Assistant
 50   Administrative Clerk                675.20     721.02    766.79    812.60     858.43
 49                                       608.71     649.70    690.70    731.69     772.73

ARTICLE 10                    Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule
                              (Seasonal and Temporary Personnel)
                              Voted:
                              To waive section 8 of the 1955 Salary By-Laws as last
                              amended by Striking out the pay schedules as they relate




                                           54
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                           to Seasonal and Temporary Personnel and substitute in
                           place thereof the following new pay schedules as they
                           relate to said employees:

                       SEASONAL PERSONNEL PAY SCHEDULE
                           EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2007 – 2%
GP                 TITLE                        DEPT         1       2        3
27   Sr. Seasonal Harbor Asst          HM                 619.69   658.39   697.15
26                                                        581.63   617.99   654.32
25   Beach Supervisor                  Rec/Park/Tree      544.95   578.80   612.88
     Park Police                       Rec/Park/Tree
     Summer Acct Assistant             Finance            512.32   544.95   577.56
24   Summer Programmer Asst            Finance
     Seasonal Harbor Asst              HM
23   Summer Acct Trainee               Finance            482.40   512.64   542.88
     Summer Programer Trainee          Finance
     General Laborer III               Hwy/PW/Waste
     Recreation Leader, Sailing        Rec/Park/Tree
22   General Laborer B                 Sewer/ Water       463.43   486.83   510.30
     Recreation Leader,Arts & Crafts   Rec/Park/Tree
     Recreation Leader, Athletics      Rec/Park/Tree
     Recreation Leader, Facilities     Rec/Park/Tree
     Recreation Leader, Playgrounds    Rec/Park/Tree
     Recreation Leader,Tennis          Rec/Park/Tree
     Lifeguard                         Rec/Park/Tree
     Seasonal Custodian                Public Bld/Insp
21   Seasonal Laborer                  Cemetery           455.25   472.22   489.22
     General Laborer B                 Health
     Data Entry Clerk                  Public Bldg/Insp
20   Summer Clerical                   Finance            445.75   451.18   456.60
     Beach Maintenance Person          Rec/Park/Tree
     Forestry Worker                   Rec/Park/Tree
     Grounds Caretaker                 Rec/Park/Tree
     Recreational Instructor           Rec/Park/Tree
     Seasonal Labor                    Rec/Park/Tree
2    General Labor C                                      423.49   442.55
B    Custodian                         Lib                333.47   350.13   367.71




                                        55
                           MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




      Summer Asst                      Dog Off

                        SEASONAL PERSONNEL PAY SCHEDULE
                          EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2008 – 1%
GP                 TITLE                     DEPT           1        2       3
27   Sr Seasonal Harbor Asst           HM                 625.89   664.97   704.12
26                                                        587.45   624.17   660.86
25   Beach Supervisor                  Rec/Park/Tree      550.39   584.59   619.01
     Park Police                       Rec/Park/Tree
24   Summer Acct Assistant             Finance            517.44   550.39   583.34
     Summer Programmer Asst            Finance
     Seasonal Harbor Asst              HM
23   Summer Acct Trainee               Finance            487.22   517.77   548.31
     Summer Programer Trainee          Finance
     General Laborer III               Hwy/PW/Waste
     Recreation Leader, Sailing        Rec/Park/Tree
22   General Laborer B                 Sewer/ Water       468.06   491.69   515.40
     Recreation Leader,Arts & Crafts   Rec/Park/Tree
     Recreation Leader, Athletics      Rec/Park/Tree
     Recreation Leader, Facilities     Rec/Park/Tree
     Recreation Leader, Playgrounds    Rec/Park/Tree
     Recreation Leader,Tennis          Rec/Park/Tree
     Lifeguard                         Rec/Park/Tree
     Seasonal Custodian                Public Bld/Insp
21   Seasonal Laborer                  Cemetery           459.80   476.94   494.11
     General Laborer B                 Health
     Data Entry Clerk                  Public Bldg/Insp
20   Summer Clerical                   Finance            450.21   455.69   461.17
     Beach Maintenance Person          Rec/Park/Tree
     Forestry Worker                   Rec/Park/Tree
     Grounds Caretaker                 Rec/Park/Tree
     Recreational Instructor           Rec/Park/Tree
     Seasonal Labor                    Rec/Park/Tree
2    General Labor C                                      427.73   446.97
B    Custodian                         Lib                336.80   353.63   371.39
     Summer Asst                       Dog Off




                                        56
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                         TEMPORARY PERSONNEL PAY SCHEDULE

                                 EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2007 - 2%

GP        TITLE                  DEPT           1        2        3        4        5
     Heavy Equipment
26   Operator              Hwy,HM,Waste       605.25   640.75   676.28   711.79   740.27

25   Senior Clerk          Finance            544.95   578.91   612.88   646.85   680.83

24   General Clerk         Assr,Sel,Fire      512.32   544.95   577.56   610.17   642.76
     Vol/Comm Res
     Coord                 COA

     Prgm/Vol Coord        Library

     E-911 Dispatch        Sel

23   Special Clerk-Rev     Finance            482.40   512.64   542.88   573.12   603.38
     General Laborer
     III                   Health

22                                            463.43   486.83   510.30   533.69   557.18
     Temporary
21   Laborer               Cem, COA           455.25   472.22   489.22   506.22   523.20
     Temp Special
     Labor I               Library

20                                            445.75   451.18   456.60   462.05   467.47
14   Sr Staff Engineer     Eng                633.29   662.79   693.80   726.36   760.52

13   Tech Ser Librarian    Lib                605.20   633.29   662.79   693.80   726.36

     Adult Librarian       Lib
     Child Librarian       Lib
     Young Adult
     Librarian             Lib

12                                            578.47   605.20   633.29   662.79   693.80

11   Sanitarian            Hlh                552.91   578.47   605.20   633.29   662.79

10                                            528.70   552.91   578.47   605.20   633.29

9    Special Labor C       Lib                505.54   528.70   552.91   578.47   605.20

     Library Para-Prof     Lib

     Asst Dog Officer      Dog Off




                                           57
                           MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




8                                                483.48     505.54     528.70     552.91     578.47

7    Special Clerk           Hlth, Assr          483.48     505.54     528.70     552.91

                             Cem,Swr/Wtr

     Library Tech            Lib
     Lib Tech or Tec
     Adm                     Lib

6    Chauffeur               COA                 483.48     505.54     528.70

5    Sr Library Asst         Lib                 483.48     505.54

     General Clerk           Finance

4                                                462.45     483.48

3    Unclassified Labor                          442.55     462.45

     Data Entry Oper

2    Library Assistant       Library             423.49     442.55

1    Temporary Clerk                             405.40     423.49



                         TEMPORARY PERSONNEL PAY SCHEDULE
                            EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2008 – 1%
GP        TITLE                  DEPT        1             2           3          4          5
      Heavy
      Equipment            Hwy,HM,Was
26    Operator             te              611.30         647.16     683.04     718.90     747.67

                                                                                           687.64
25    Senior Clerk         Finance         550.39         584.70     619.01     653.32
24    General Clerk        Assr,Sel,Fire   517.44         550.39     583.34     616.28     649.19
      Vol/Comm Res
      Coord                COA
      Prgm/Vol
      Coord                Library
      E-911
      Dispatch             Sel
      Special Clerk-
23    Rev                  Finance         487.22         517.77     548.31     578.85     609.41
      General
      Laborer III          Health
22                                         468.06         491.69     515.40     539.03     562.75




                                            58
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



      Temporary
 21   Laborer           Cem, COA          459.80    476.94   494.11   511.28   528.43
      Temp Special
      Labor I           Library
 20                                       450.21    455.69   461.17   466.67   472.14
      Sr Staff
 14   Engineer          Eng               639.62    669.41   700.74   733.63   768.13
      Tech Ser
 13   Librarian         Lib               611.25    639.62   669.41   700.74   733.63
      Adult Librarian   Lib
      Child Librarian   Lib
      Young Adult
      Librarian         Lib
 12                                       584.26    611.25   639.62   669.41   700.74
 11   Sanitarian        Hlh               558.44    584.26   611.25   639.62   669.41
 10                                       533.98    558.44   584.26   611.25   639.62
      Special Labor
 9    C                 Lib               510.60    533.98   558.44   584.26   611.25
      Library Para-
      Prof              Lib
      Asst Dog
      Officer           Dog Off
 8                                        488.31    510.60   533.98   558.44   584.26
 7    Special Clerk     Hlth, Assr        488.31    510.60   533.98   558.44
                        Cem,Swr/Wtr
      Library Tech      Lib
      Lib Tech or
      Tec Adm           Lib
 6    Chauffeur         COA               488.31    510.60   533.98
 5    Sr Library Asst   Lib               488.31    510.60
      General Clerk     Finance
 4                                        467.07    488.31
      Unclassified
 3    Labor                               446.97    467.07
      Data Entry
      Oper
      Library
 2    Assistant         Library           427.73    446.97
      Temporary
 1    Clerk                               409.45    427.73

ARTICLE 11                    Pay Schedule and Reclassification ( Traffic
                              Supervisors)




                                           59
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



              Voted:
              To increase the pay for Marblehead Traffic Supervisors,
              2% effective July 1, 2007 and 1% effective January 1,
              2008.

ARTICLE 12    School Department Computer and Support
              Equipment
              Voted:
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 13    Schools Construction and or Renovation Program
              Voted:
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 14    Fiscal 2007 School Budget Additional Appropriation
              Voted:
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 15    Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
              Voted:
              That the sum of $541,672.00 to be appropriated, and to
              meet this appropriation the sum of $70,230.00 is to be
              transferred from Sewer Retained Earnings, $90,120.00 is
              to be transferred from water Retained Earnings,
              $1,707.00 is to be transferred from the Cemetery sale of
              Lots Fund and $379,615.00 is to be raised by taxation.
              To include the following:

              Police Department
              2 police Vehicles
              1 Lease Vehicle (3rd year)
              1 Lease Vehicle (3rd year)
              1 Lease Vehicle (3rd year)
              Tree Department
              1 Dump Truck
              Park Department
              1 Line Painting Machine
              1 Utility Trailer
              1 Office Copy Machine
              Highway Department




                           60
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



              1 Dump Truck
              Waste Collection Department
              1 Roll-Off Container
              Rebuild Compactor
              Cemetery Department
              1 Crawler Tractor Excavator (3)
              School Department
              1 Pick-Up Truck
              Sewer Department
              1 Utility Truck (1)
              1 Dump Truck (1)
              Water Department
              1 Backhoe (2)

              1. From Sewer Retained Earnings
              2. From Water Retained Earnings
              3. From Cemetery Sale of Lots Fund

ARTICLE 16    Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
              Voted:
              That the sum of $160,000.00 is appropriated to be
              expended by the Board of Selectmen for remodeling,
              reconstructing and making extraordinary repairs and
              improvements to existing Town buildings and
              infrastructure including the following repairs:

              Highway Garage – Main
              Repair to supporting masonry columns & wall
              Re-glaze & paint upper window units
              Hobb’s Building
              Repair Siding & Paint 2 sides of Building & Garage
              Town House
              Paint Building Exterior
              Fire Headquarters
              Paint Central Floor
              New Phone System
              New Carpeting
              Garage – Tree Department
              Replace Heating System
              Engineering




                           61
              MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



               Upgrade ArcIMS Application
               New Townwide Orthos
               Library
               Repair roofing & Flashing
               Replace Controller for heating system
               Fire Alarm
               Upgrade Circuitry

ARTICLE 17     Walls and Fences
               Voted:
               That $25,000 appropriated in fiscal 2007 for the
               construction and reconstruction of walls and fences for
               the protection of highways and property, including
               engineering services in connection therewith; and that
               the Board of Selectmen is authorized to acquire by
               purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any land or
               easement necessary therefore.

ARTICLE 18     Water and Sewer Commission Claims
               Voted:
               To authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the
               Board of Selectmen acting jointly to compromise any
               claims for damages or suits pending against the Town of
               Marblehead on account of acts which may have occurred
               during the construction of the water and sewer system.

ARTICLE 19     Storm Drainage Construction
               Voted:
               That $324,000.00 is appropriated from taxation for the
               construction and reconstruction of sewers for surface
               drainage purposes, including engineering services in
               connection there with, to authorize the appropriate Town
               Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or
               otherwise, any land or easement necessary; to be
               expended by the Water and Sewer Commission.

ARITICLE 20    Sewer Department Construction
               Voted:
               That the sum of $643,176.00 is appropriated from sewer
               retained earnings to be expended by the Water and Sewer




                            62
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



              Commission for the construction or reconstruction of
              sewers for sanitary purposes and for sewage disposal,
              pump stations, original pumping station equipment,
              metering equipment, safety equipment, replacement of
              said equipment, engineering, consultants and surveys
              including revenue studies, and other general Sewer
              Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of
              Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by purchase
              eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements
              necessary.

ARTICLE 21    Water Department Construction
              Voted:
              That the sum of $648,762.00 is appropriated from water
              retained earnings to be expended by the Water and Sewer
              Commission for the construction, reconstruction and
              extending of water mains, replacement of water meters,
              appurtenances, engineering, consultants, surveys
              including revenue studies, and other general Water
              Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of
              Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by purchase,
              eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements

ARTICLE 22    Stormwater Management and
              Erosion Control By-Law for the Town of
              Marblehead

              Voted:
              To amend the Marblehead By-Laws by adding a New
              Chapter 195, Storm Water Management and Erosion
              Control By-Law, as follows:

              Chapter 195
              ARTICLE I.         Purpose

              1.      Increased volumes of stormwater, contaminated
                      stormwater runoff from impervious surfaces,
                      and soil erosion and sedimentation are major
                      causes of: impairment of water quality and flow
                      in lakes, ponds, streams, rivers, wetlands and




                            63
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



          groundwater; contamination of drinking water
          supplies; erosion of stream channels; alteration
          or destruction of aquatic and wildlife habitat;
          flooding; and overloading or clogging of
          municipal catch basins and storm drainage
          systems.

 The United States Environmental Protection Agency has
 identified sedimentation from land disturbance activities
 and polluted stormwater runoff from land development
 and redevelopment as major sources of water pollution,
 impacting drinking water supplies, natural habitats and
 recreational resources. Regulation of activities that result
 in the disturbance of land and the creation of stormwater
 runoff is necessary for the protection of the water bodies
 and groundwater resources within the Town of
 Marblehead, to safeguard the health, safety and welfare
 of the general public and protect the natural resources of
 the Town.

 2.       The objectives of this By-Law are to:

          A.        protect water resources;

          B.        require practices that eliminate soil
                    erosion and sedimentation;

          C.        control the volume and rate of
                    stormwater runoff resulting from land
                    disturbance activities in order to
                    minimize potential impacts of
                    flooding;

          D.        require practices to manage and treat
                    stormwater runoff generated from new
                    development and redevelopment;

          E.        protect groundwater and surface water
                    from degradation;




               64
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



         F.         promote infiltration and the recharge of
                    groundwater;

         G.         prevent pollutants from entering the
                    municipal storm drain system;

         H.         ensure that soil erosion and
                    sedimentation control measures and
                    stormwater runoff management
                    practices are incorporated into the site
                    planning and design process and are
                    implemented and maintained;

         I.         ensure adequate long-term operation
                    and maintenance of structural
                    stormwater best management practices;

         J.         require practices to control waste such
                    as discarded building materials,
                    concrete truck washout, chemicals,
                    litter and sanitary waste at construction
                    sites that may cause adverse impacts to
                    water quality;

         K.         comply with state and federal statutes
                    and regulations relating to stormwater
                    discharges; and

         L.         establish the Town of Marblehead’s
                    legal authority to ensure compliance
                    with the provisions of gh inspection,
                    monitoring and enforcement.

 ARTICLE II.        Definitions

          For the purposes of this By-Law, the following
 shall mean:

 ABUTTER: The owner(s) of land abutting the activity.




               65
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



 AGRICULTURE: The normal maintenance or
 improvement of land in agricultural or aquacultural use,
 as defined by the Massachusetts Wetlands Protection Act
 and its implementing regulations.

 ALTERATION OF DRAINAGE CHARACTERISTICS:
 Any activity on an area of land that changes the water
 quality or the force, quantity, direction, timing or
 location of runoff flowing from the area. Such changes
 include change from distributed runoff to confined,
 discrete discharge; change in the volume of runoff from
 the area; change in the peak rate of runoff from the area;
 and change in the recharge to groundwater in the area.

 APPLICANT: Any “person,” as defined below,
 requesting a soil erosion and sediment control permit for
 proposed land-disturbance activity.

 AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY: The
 Conservation Commission and its employees or agents
 designated to enforce this By-Law.

 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP): An
 activity, procedure, restraint or structural improvement
 that helps to reduce the quantity of and/or improve the
 quality of stormwater runoff.

 CONSTRUCTION AND WASTE MATERIALS:
 Excess or discarded building or site materials, including
 but not limited to concrete truck washout, chemicals,
 oils, litter and sanitary waste at a construction site that
 may adversely impact water quality.

 CLEARING: Any activity that removes the vegetative
 surface cover. Clearing activities generally include
 grubbing activity as defined below.

 DEVELOPMENT: The modification of land to
 accommodate a new use or expansion of an existing use,
 usually involving construction.




               66
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




 DISTURBANCE OF LAND: Any action, including
 clearing and grubbing, that causes a change in the
 position, location or arrangement of soil, sand, rock,
 gravel or similar earth material.

 ENVIRONMENTAL SITE MONITOR: A Registered
 Professional Engineer or other trained professional
 selected by the Authorized Enforcement Authority and
 retained by the Authorized Enforcement Authority and
 paid by the holder of a Land Disturbance Permit to
 periodically inspect the work and report to the
 Authorized Enforcement Authority.

 EROSION: The wearing away of the land surface by
 natural or artificial forces such as wind, water, ice,
 gravity or vehicle traffic and the subsequent detachment
 and transportation of soil particles.

 EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
 PLAN: A document containing narrative, drawings and
 details developed by a Registered Professional Engineer
 (PE), which includes best management practices or
 equivalent measures designed to control surface runoff,
 erosion and sedimentation during pre-construction and
 construction-related land disturbance activities.

 ESTIMATED HABITAT OF RARE WILDLIFE AND
 CERTIFIED VERNAL POOLS: Habitats delineated for
 state-protected rare wildlife and certified vernal pools.
 See the Wetlands Protection Act regulations (310 CMR
 10.00) and the Forest Cutting Practices Act regulations
 (304 CMR 11.00).

 GRADING: Changing the level or shape of the ground
 surface.

 GRUBBING: The act of clearing land surface by
 digging or grinding up roots and stumps.




               67
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



 IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any material or structure on
 or above the ground that prevents water infiltrating the
 underlying soil. Impervious surface includes, without
 limitation, roads, paved parking lots, sidewalks and roof
 tops. Impervious surface also includes soils, gravel
 driveways and similar surfaces with a runoff coefficient
 (Rational Method) greater than 85.

 LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY or LAND
 DISTURBANCE: Any activity including, without
 limitation, clearing, grubbing, grading, digging, cutting
 or excavation of soil; placement of fill; and construction
 that causes a change in the position or location of soil,
 sand, rock, gravel or similar earth material.

 LOT: A single parcel of land held in identical ownership
 throughout and defined by metes, bounds or boundary
 lines in a recorded deed on a recorded plan.

 MASSACHUSETTS ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT:
 M.G.L. Ch. 131A and its implementing regulations at
 321 CMR 10.00, which prohibit the “taking” of any rare
 plant or animal species listed as “Endangered,”
 “Threatened,” or “Of Special Concern.”

 MASSACHUSETTS STORMWATER
 MANAGEMENT POLICY: The Policy issued by the
 Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection,
 as amended, that coordinates the requirements prescribed
 by state regulations promulgated under the authority of
 the Massachusetts Wetlands Protection Act, M.G.L. Ch.
 131, § 40, and the Massachusetts Clean Waters Act,
 M.G.L. Ch. 21, §§ 23-56. The Policy addresses
 stormwater impacts through implementation of
 performance standards to reduce or prevent pollutants
 from reaching water bodies and control the quantity of
 runoff from a site.

 MUNICIPAL STORM DRAIN SYSTEM or
 MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM




               68
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



 (MS4): The system of conveyances designed or used for
 collecting or conveying stormwater, including any road
 with a drainage system, street, gutter, curb, inlet, piped
 storm drain, pumping facility, retention or detention
 basin, natural or manmade or altered drainage channel,
 open channel, reservoir and other drainage structure that
 together comprise the storm drainage system owned or
 operated by the Town of Marblehead.

 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE PLAN: A plan,
 which is prepared by a Registered Professional Engineer,
 describing the functional, financial and organizational
 mechanisms for the ongoing operation and maintenance
 of a stormwater management system to ensure that it
 continues to function as designed.

 OUTFALL: The point at which stormwater flows out
 from a discernible, confined point source or discrete
 conveyance into a receiving water body and/or wetland. .

 OUTSTANDING RESOURCE WATERS (ORWs):
 Waters designated by the Massachusetts Department of
 Environmental Protection as ORWs. These waters have
 exceptional sociologic, recreational, ecological and/or
 aesthetic values and are subject to more stringent
 requirements under both the Massachusetts Water
 Quality Standards, promulgated at 314 CMR 4.00, and
 the Massachusetts Stormwater Management Standards,
 set forth in the Massachusetts Stormwater Management
 Policy. ORWs include vernal pools certified by the
 Natural Heritage Program of the Massachusetts
 Department of Fisheries and Wildlife and Environmental
 Law Enforcement, all Class A designated public water
 supplies with their bordering vegetated wetlands and
 other waters specifically designated.

 OWNER: A person with a legal or equitable interest in
 property.




               69
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



 PERMITTEE: The person who holds a land disturbance
 permit and therefore bears the responsibilities and enjoys
 the privileges conferred thereby.

 PERSON: An individual, partnership, association, firm,
 company, trust, corporation, agency, authority,
 department or political subdivision of the
 Commonwealth or the federal government, to the extent
 permitted by law, and any officer, employee or agent
 thereof.

 POINT SOURCE: Any discernible, confined and
 discrete means of conveyance, including but not limited
 to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete
 fissure or container from which pollutants are or may be
 discharged.

 PRE-CONSTRUCTION: All activity in preparation for
 construction.

 PRIORITY HABITAT OF RARE SPECIES: Habitats
 delineated for rare plant and animal populations
 protected pursuant to the Massachusetts Endangered
 Species Act and its regulations.

 REDEVELOPMENT: Development, rehabilitation,
 expansion, demolition or phased projects that disturb the
 ground surface or increase the impervious area on
 previously developed sites.

 RESPONSIBLE PARTIES: Owner(s) and persons with
 financial, operational and/or administrative
 responsibility.

 RUNOFF: Rainfall, snowmelt or irrigation water
 flowing over the ground surface.

 SEDIMENT: Mineral or organic soil material that is
 transported by wind or water from its origin to another
 location; the product of erosion processes.




               70
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




 SEDIMENTATION: The process or act of deposition of
 sediment.

 SITE: Any lot or parcel of land or area of property
 where land-disturbing activities are, were or will be
 performed.

 SLOPE: The incline of a ground surface expressed as a
 ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance.

 SOIL: Any earth, sand, rock, gravel or similar material.

 STABILIZATION: The use, singly or in combination,
 of mechanical, structural or vegetative methods to
 prevent or retard erosion.

 STORMWATER: Stormwater runoff, snow melt runoff
 and surface water runoff and drainage.

 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN: A document
 containing narrative, drawings and details prepared by a
 Registered Professional Engineer (PE), which includes
 structural and non-structural best management practices
 to manage and treat stormwater runoff generated from
 regulated development activity. A Stormwater
 Management Plan also includes an Operation and
 Maintenance Plan describing the maintenance
 requirements for structural best management practices.

 STRIP: Any activity which removes the vegetative
 ground surface cover, including tree removal, clearing,
 grubbing and storage or removal of topsoil.

 TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS): Material,
 including but not limited to trash, debris and sand,
 suspended in stormwater runoff.

 VERNAL POOLS: Temporary bodies of freshwater
 which provide critical habitat for a number of vertebrate




               71
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



 and invertebrate wildlife species. For the purpose of this
 By-law, vernal pools shall be those areas certified as
 such by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Division
 of Fisheries and Wildlife.

 WATERCOURSE: A natural or man-made channel
 through which water flows, including a river, brook,
 stream, underground stream, pond or lake.

 WETLAND RESOURCE AREA: An area specified in
 the Massachusetts Wetlands Protection Act, M.G.L. Ch.
 131, § 40, and accompanying regulations and/or in
 Chapter 194 of the By-Laws of the Town of Marblehead
 and accompanying regulations.

 WETLANDS: As defined in M.G.L. Ch. 131, § 40, and
 accompanying regulations, and the Town of Marblehead
 Wetlands Protection By-Law and Regulations.
 ARTICLE III. Authority

 This By-Law is adopted under authority granted by the
 Home Rule Amendment of the Massachusetts
 Constitution, the Home Rule statutes, G.L. c. 83 § 1, 10
 and 16 and G.L. ch. 149 §135 - 140 and pursuant to the
 regulations of the Federal Clean Water Act, found at 40
 CFR 122.34 and published in the Federal Register on
 December 8, 1999, as amended.

 ARTICLE IV.        Applicability

 This By-Law shall apply to all land-disturbing activities
 within the jurisdiction of the Town of Marblehead.
 Except as permitted by the Authorized Enforcement
 Authority, or as otherwise provided in this By-Law, no
 person shall perform any activity that results in land
 disturbance of 40,000 square feet or more, including
 40,000 square feet of area which is comprised of smaller,
 individual parcels within the same project or
 unconnected areas which comprise 40,000 square feet or
 more in the aggregate.




               72
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




 1.    Regulated Activities

       Regulated activities shall include, but not be
       limited to:

 A.    land disturbance of 40,000 square feet or more,
       whether or not associated with construction or
       reconstruction of structures;

 B.    development or redevelopment involving
       multiple separate activities in discontinuous
       locations or on s if the activities are part of a
       larger common plan of development that all
       together disturbs 40,000 square feet or more of
       land;

 C.    paving or other change in surface material over
       an area of 40,000 square feet or more causing a
       significant reduction of permeability or increase
       in runoff;

 D.    construction of a new drainage system or
       alteration of an existing drainage system or
       conveyance serving a drainage area of 40,000
       square feet or more;

 E.    any other activity altering the surface of an area
       of 40,000 square feet or more that will, or may,
       result in increased stormwater runoff flowing
       from the property into a public way, the
       municipal storm drain system, or wetlands; or

 F.    construction or reconstruction of structures
       where 40,000 square feet or more of roof
       drainage is altered.

 2.    Erosion and Sedimentation Control
       Requirement




            73
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



 A project which includes land disturbance of less than
 40,000 square feet shall be considered to be in
 conformance with this By-Law if soils or other eroded
 matter have been or will be prevented from being
 deposited onto adjacent properties, rights-of-ways, the
 public storm drainage system or wetlands and
 watercourses. Failing same, the design, installation and
 maintenance of erosion and sediment control operations
 and facilities shall adhere to the standards specified in
 the Regulations adopted pursuant to this By-Law.

 3.       Exempt Activities

          The following activities are exempt from the
          requirements of this By-Law:

 A.       normal maintenance and improvement of land
          in agricultural use as defined by the
          Massachusetts Wetlands Protection Act (M.G.L.
          c. 131, §40 and its accompanying regulations);

 B.       repair of septic systems when required by the
          Board of Health for the protection of public
          health and in compliance with Section IV.2
          hereof;

 C.       normal maintenance of existing landscaping,
          gardens or lawn areas associated with a single
          family dwelling, provided such maintenance
          does not include the addition of more than 50
          cubic yards of soil material, construction of any
          walls, alteration of existing grades by more than
          one foot in elevation or alteration of drainage
          patterns;

 D.       the construction of fencing that will not alter
          existing terrain or drainage patterns;




               74
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



 E.       construction of utilities other than drainage (e.g.
          gas, water, electric, telephone) that will not alter
          terrain or drainage patterns; and

 F.       projects wholly within the jurisdiction of the
          Authorized Enforcement Authority and
          requiring an Order of Conditions.

 ARTICLE V.         Administration

 The Authorized Enforcement Authority shall administer,
 implement and enforce this By-Law. Any powers
 granted to or duties imposed upon the Authorized
 Enforcement Authority through this By-Law may be
 delegated in writing by the Authorized Enforcement
 Authority to its employees and/or agents.

 ARTICLE VI.        Regulations

 The Authorized Enforcement Authority may adopt and
 periodically amend rules and regulations to effectuate the
 purposes of this By-Law. Prior to the adoption and
 subsequent amendment to the rules and regulations, if
 any, the Authorized Enforcement Authority shall hold a
 public hearing. Notice of the time and place of the
 hearing, and of the subject matter, sufficient for
 identification, shall be published in a newspaper of
 general circulation in the Town once in each of two
 successive weeks, the first publication to be not less than
 fourteen days before the day of the hearing. A copy of
 the adopted regulations shall be made available at the
 Office of the Town Clerk and as otherwise deemed
 appropriate by the Authorized Enforcement Authority.
 Failure by the Authorized Enforcement Authority to
 promulgate such rules and regulations shall not have the
 effect of suspending or invalidating this By-Law.

 ARTICLE VII. Permits




               75
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



 A Permit hereunder is required prior to any activity
 disturbing 40,000 or more square feet of land. The site
 owner or his/her agent shall apply to the Authorized
 Enforcement Authority for the permit. While application
 may be made by a representative, the permittee must be
 the owner of the site.

 1.      Applications

         An application shall be made to the Authorized
         Enforcement Authority in a form and containing
         information as specified in this By-Law and in
         the rules and regulations adopted by the
         Authorized Enforcement Authority, if any, and
         shall be accompanied by payment of the
         appropriate application and compliance fees.

 2.      Fees

         Application and compliance fees shall be
         established by Authorized Enforcement
         Authority to cover expenses connected with
         public notice, application review and
         monitoring permit compliance. Additional fees
         may be required to cover professional review as
         well. The Authorized Enforcement Authority is
         authorized to retain a Registered Professional
         Engineer or other professional consultant to
         advise the Authorized Enforcement Authority
         on any or all aspects of the application.
         Applicants must pay all review fees before the
         review process may begin. The applicant for a
         Land Disturbance Permit shall be required to
         cover the costs of said consultant(s) through an
         account established pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 44,
         § 53G.

 3.      Information Requests




                76
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



       The Authorized Enforcement Authority may
       request such additional information as is
       necessary to enable the Authorized Enforcement
       Authority to determine whether the proposed
       land disturbance activity will protect water
       resources and comply with the requirements of
       this By-Law.

 4.    Determination of Completeness

       The Authorized Enforcement Authority shall
       make a determination as to the completeness of
       the application and adequacy of the materials
       submitted. No review shall take place until the
       application has been found to be complete.

 5.    Coordination with Other Boards

       On receipt of a complete application for a Land
       Disturbance Permit, the Authorized
       Enforcement Authority shall distribute one copy
       each to the Planning Board, the Water and
       Sewer Commission, the Board of Health and the
       Building Commissioner for review and
       comment. Said agencies and persons shall, in
       their discretion, investigate the case and report
       their recommendations to the Authorized
       Enforcement Authority. The Authorized
       Enforcement Authority shall not hold a hearing
       on the Land Disturbance Permit until it has
       received reports from said agencies or until said
       agencies have allowed twenty (20) days to
       elapse after receipt of the application materials
       without submission of a report thereon.

 6.    Entry

       Filing an application for a Land Disturbance
       Permit grants the Authorized Enforcement
       Authority or its agent(s) permission to enter the




           77
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



         site to verify the information in the application
         and to inspect for compliance with permit
         conditions, to the extent permitted by law.

 7.      Hearing

         Within thirty (30) days of receipt of a complete
         application for a Land Disturbance Permit, the
         Authorized Enforcement Authority shall hold a
         public hearing and shall take final action within
         thirty (30) days from the close of said hearing,
         unless such time is extended by agreement
         between the applicant and the Authorized
         Enforcement Authority. Notice of the public
         hearing shall, at least Five (5) business days
         prior to said hearing, be given by publication in
         a local newspaper of general circulation, and by
         posting. The Authorized Enforcement
         Authority shall be responsible for publishing the
         notice in the local newspaper and posting the
         notice at Abbot Hall, and the Applicant shall be
         responsible for paying the costs of same. The
         Authorized Enforcement Authority shall make
         the application available for inspection by the
         public during business hours at the Mary Alley
         Building.

 8.      Action

 The Authorized Enforcement Authority may:

 A.      approve the application and issue a permit if it
         finds that the proposed plan will protect water
         resources and complies with the requirements of
         this By-Law;

 B.      approve the application and issue a permit with
         conditions, modifications and/or restrictions that
         the Authorized Enforcement Authority
         determines are required to ensure that the




              78
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



       project will protect water resources and
       complies with the requirements of this By-Law;
       or

 C.    disapprove the application and deny a permit if
       it finds that the proposed plan will not protect
       water resources or fails to meet the objectives of
       and/or comply with the requirements of this
       By-Law. If the Authorized Enforcement
       Authority finds that the applicant has submitted
       insufficient information to describe the site, the
       work or the effect of the work on water quality
       and runoff volume, the Authorized Enforcement
       Authority may disapprove the application,
       denying a permit.

 D.    If approved, the Authorized enforcement
       Authority shall require that the permit, in
       addition to the Plan as noted herein, shall be
       placed on record at the Southern Essex Registry
       of Deeds. Upon completion of the project and
       following approval of compliance with the
       permit, the Authorized Enforcement Authority
       shall issue a certificate of completion to be
       placed on record at the Southern Essex Registry
       of Deeds.

 9.    Project Changes

       The permittee, or his/her agent, must notify the
       agent of the Authorized Enforcement Authority
       in writing of any change or alteration of a land
       disturbing activity before the change or
       alteration occurs. If the agent of the Authorized
       Enforcement Authority determines that the
       change or alteration is significant, based on the
       design requirements listed in the rules and
       regulations adopted by the Authorized
       Enforcement Authority pursuant to this By-
       Law, if any, the agent of the Authorized




           79
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



          Enforcement Authority may require that an
          amended application or a new full application
          be filed in accordance with this Section. If any
          unauthorized or unpermitted change or
          alteration from the Land Disturbance Permit
          occurs during land disturbing activities, the
          agent of the Authorized Enforcement Authority
          may require the Permittee to cease all work
          and/or require the installation of interim erosion
          and sedimentation control measures before
          approving the change or alteration.

 ARTICLE VIII. Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan

 The Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan shall
 contain sufficient information to describe the nature and
 purpose of the proposed development, pre and post
 construction conditions of the site and the adjacent areas
 and proposed erosion and sedimentation controls. The
 applicant shall submit such material as is necessary to
 show that the proposed development will comply with
 the design standards and contain the information listed in
 the rules and regulations adopted by the Authorized
 Enforcement Authority for administration of this By-
 Law, if any.

 ARTICLE IX.       Stormwater Management Plan

 The Stormwater Management Plan shall contain
 sufficient information to describe the nature and purpose
 of the proposed development, pre and post construction
 conditions of the site and the adjacent areas and proposed
 best management practices for the permanent
 management and treatment of stormwater. The
 Stormwater Management Plan shall contain sufficient
 information for the Authorized Enforcement Authority to
 evaluate the environmental impact, effectiveness and
 acceptability of the measures proposed by the applicant
 for reducing adverse impacts from stormwater. The Plan
 shall be designed to meet the Massachusetts Stormwater




              80
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



 Management Standards, as set forth in the Massachusetts
 Stormwater Management Policy and the United States
 Department of Environmental Protection’s Stormwater
 Management Handbook: Volumes I and II. The
 Stormwater Management Plan shall fully describe the
 project in drawings and narrative. The applicant shall
 submit such material as is required by the rules and
 regulations adopted by the Authorized Enforcement
 Authority for the administration of this By-Law, if any.

 ARTICLE X.        Operation and Maintenance Plan

 1.      Requirements

 An Operation and Maintenance Plan (O&M Plan) for the
 permanent storm water management system is required
 for all projects at the time of application. The O&M
 Plan shall be designed to ensure compliance with this
 By-Law and its Regulations, if any, and the
 Massachusetts Surface Water Quality Standards, 314
 CMR 4.00, in all seasons and throughout the life of the
 system. The O&M Plan shall include any requirements
 deemed necessary by the Authorized Enforcement
 Authority to ensure compliance therewith, including,
 without limitation, a covenant. The Authorized
 Enforcement Authority shall make the final decision of
 what maintenance option is appropriate in a given
 situation. In making said decision, the Authorized
 Enforcement Authority will consider natural features, the
 proximity of the site to water bodies and wetlands, the
 extent of impervious surfaces, the size of the site, the
 types of stormwater management structures and the
 potential need for ongoing maintenance activities. Once
 approved by the Authorized Enforcement Authority, the
 O&M Plan shall be recorded at the Southern Essex
 District Registry of Deeds by and at the expense of the
 permittee, shall run with the land, shall remain on file
 with the Authorized Enforcement Authority and shall be
 an ongoing requirement. Stormwater management
 easements shall be provided by the property owner(s) in




              81
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



 areas and as necessary to carry out the required
 maintenance.

 2.       Changes to Operation and Maintenance Plan

 A.       The owner(s) of the stormwater management
          system must notify the Authorized Enforcement
          Authority or its agent of changes in ownership
          or assignment of financial responsibility.

 B.       The maintenance schedule in the Maintenance
          Agreement may be amended to achieve the
          purposes of this By-Law by mutual agreement
          of the Authorized Enforcement Authority and
          the responsible parties. Amendments must be
          in writing and signed by all responsible parties.
          Once the amended O&M Plan is signed, the
          Authorized Enforcement Authority shall file it
          with the Southern Essex District Registry of
          Deeds at the expense of the current owner(s).

 ARTICLE XI.        Inspection and Site Supervision

 1.       Preconstruction Meeting

          Prior to clearing, excavation, construction or
          any land disturbing activity requiring a permit,
          the applicant, the applicant’s technical
          representative, the general contractor, pertinent
          subcontractors and any person with authority to
          make changes to the project shall meet with the
          Authorized Enforcement Authority or its
          designated agent to review the permitted plans
          and proposed implementation.

 2.       Inspection

          The Authorized Enforcement Authority or its
          designated agent shall make inspections as
          hereinafter required and shall either approve




               82
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



       that portion of the work completed or shall
       notify the permittee wherein the work fails to
       comply with the approved plans and/or any
       conditions of approval. One copy of the
       approved plans and conditions of approval,
       signed by the Authorized Enforcement
       Authority, shall be maintained at the site during
       the progress of the work. To facilitate
       inspections, the permittee shall notify the agent
       of the Authorized Enforcement Authority within
       twenty-four (24) hours after each of the
       following events:

 A.    erosion and sediment control measures are in
       place and stabilized;

 B.    rough grading has been substantially completed;

 C.    final grading has been substantially completed;

 D.    bury inspection, prior to backfilling of any
       underground drainage or stormwater
       conveyance structures;

 E.    close of the construction season; and

 F.    final landscaping (permanent stabilization) and
       project final completion.

 3.    Permittee Inspections

       The permittee or his/her agent shall conduct and
       document inspections of all control measures no
       less frequently than weekly or as specified in
       the permit, and prior to and following
       anticipated storm events. The purpose of such
       inspections will be to determine the overall
       effectiveness of the control plan, and the need
       for maintenance and/or additional control
       measures. The permittee or his/her agent shall




           83
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



          submit monthly reports to the Authorized
          Enforcement Authority or designated agent in a
          format approved by the Authorized
          Enforcement Authority. The Authorized
          Enforcement Authority may require, as a
          condition of approval, that a professional
          environmental site monitor, approved by the
          Authorized Enforcement Authority, be retained
          by and paid for by the permittee to conduct such
          inspections and prepare and submit such reports
          to the Authorized Enforcement Authority or its
          designated agent.

 4.       Access Permission

          To the extent permitted by law, or if authorized
          by the owner or other party in control of the
          property, the Authorized Enforcement
          Authority, its agents, officers and employees
          may enter upon privately owned property for
          the purpose of performing their duties under this
          By-Law and may make or cause to be made
          such examinations, surveys or samplings as the
          Authorized Enforcement Authority deems
          reasonably necessary to determine compliance
          with the permit.

 ARTICLE XII. Surety

 Prior to the start of land disturbance activity, the
 Authorized Enforcement Authority may require the
 permittee to post a surety bond, irrevocable letter of
 credit, cash or other acceptable security. The form of the
 bond shall be approved by Town Counsel, and shall be in
 an amount deemed sufficient by the Authorized
 Enforcement Authority to ensure that the work will be
 completed in accordance with the permit. If the project
 is phased, the Authorized Enforcement Authority may
 release part of the bond as each phase is completed in
 compliance with the permit, but the bond may not be




              84
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



 fully released until the Authorized Enforcement
 Authority has received the final report as required by
 Article XIII and issued a certificate of completion.

 ARTICLE XIII. Final Reports

 Upon completion of the work, the permittee shall submit
 a report, including certified, as built construction plans,
 from a Registered Professional Engineer (P.E.) certifying
 that all requirements of the permit and any approved
 changes and modifications thereto have been completed
 in accordance with the conditions of the approved
 permit.

 ARTICLE XIV. Enforcement

 1.       Authority

 The Authorized Enforcement Authority or its authorized
 agent shall enforce this By-Law, the rules and
 regulations adopted pursuant hereto, if any, and all
 orders, violation notices and/or enforcement orders, and
 may pursue all civil and criminal remedies for such
 violations.

 Pursuant hereto, the Authorized Enforcement Authority
 shall hereby be given the authority to appoint any of the
 following entities or individuals to be its agent(s): The
 Town of Marblehead Building Inspector, the Town of
 Marblehead Conservation Agent, the Town of
 Marblehead Zoning Board of Appeals, the Town of
 Marblehead Planning Board, the Town of Marblehead
 Water and Sewer Commission, the Town of Marblehead
 Highway Department. The Authorized Enforcement
 Authority shall provide notice of said appointment to the
 named agent(s) in writing.

 2.       Orders




               85
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



 A.    The Authorized Enforcement Authority or an
       authorized agent of the Authorized Enforcement
       Authority may issue a written order to enforce
       the provisions of this By-Law or the rules and
       regulations adopted pursuant hereto, if any,
       which may include (i) a requirement to cease
       and desist from the land-disturbing activity until
       there is compliance with the By-Law and
       provisions of the land-disturbance permit; (ii)
       maintenance, installation or performance of
       additional erosion and sedimentation control
       measures; (iii) monitoring, analyses and
       reporting; or (iv) remediation of erosion and
       sedimentation resulting directly or indirectly
       from the land disturbing activity.

 B.    If the Authorized Enforcement Authority or an
       authorized agent thereof determines that
       abatement or remediation of erosion and
       sedimentation is required, the order shall set
       forth a deadline by which such abatement or
       remediation must be completed. Said order
       shall further advise that, should the permittee or
       property owner fail to abate or perform
       remediation within the specified deadline, the
       Town of Marblehead may, at its option,
       undertake such work, and the permittee or
       property owner shall reimburse the Town for
       the cost thereof.

 C.    Within thirty (30) days after completing all
       measures necessary to abate the violation or to
       perform remediation, the permittee and the
       property owner shall be notified of the costs
       incurred by the Town of Marblehead, including
       administrative costs. The permittee or property
       owner may file a written protest objecting to the
       amount or basis of costs with the Authorized
       Enforcement Authority within thirty (30) days
       of receipt of said notification. If the amount due




            86
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



       is not received by the expiration of the time in
       which to file a protest or within thirty (30) days
       following a decision of the Authorized
       Enforcement Authority affirming or reducing
       the costs, or from a final decision of a court of
       competent jurisdiction to that effect, the costs
       shall become a special assessment against the
       property owner and shall constitute a lien on the
       owner’s property for the amount thereof.
       Interest shall begin to accrue on any unpaid
       costs at the statutory rate, as provided in M.G.L.
       Ch. 59, § 57, after the thirty-first day following
       the day on which the costs were due.

 3.    Criminal Penalty

       Any person who violates any provision of this
       By-Law, the rules and regulations adopted
       pursuant hereto, if any, or an order or permit
       issued hereunder shall be punished by a fine of
       not more than $300.00 for each offense. Each
       day or part thereof that such violation occurs or
       continues shall constitute a separate offense.

 4.    Non-Criminal Disposition

       As an alternative to criminal prosecution or civil
       action, the Town of Marblehead may elect to
       utilize the non-criminal disposition procedure
       set forth in M.G.L. Ch. 40, §21D, in which case
       the Authorized Enforcement Authority or
       authorized agent shall be the enforcing person.
       The penalty for each violation shall be $300.00.
       Each day or part thereof that such violation
       occurs or continues shall constitute a separate
       offense.

 5.    Appeals




           87
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                        All decisions, permits or orders of the
                        Authorized Enforcement Authority shall be
                        final. Further relief shall be sought only in a
                        court of competent jurisdiction.

              6.        Remedies Not Exclusive

                        The remedies listed in this By-Law are not
                        exclusive of any other remedies available under
                        any applicable federal, state or local law.

              ARTICLE XV. Certificate of Completion

              The Authorized Enforcement Authority will issue a
              Certificate of Completion upon receipt and approval of
              the final reports and/or upon otherwise determining that
              all work under the permit has been satisfactorily
              completed in conformance with this By-Law and the
              rules and regulations adopted pursuant hereto, if any.
              The Certificate of Completion shall be recorded at the
              Essex Southern District Registry of Deeds by the
              property owner(s) and at the property owner(s) expense.

              ARTICLE XVI. Severability

              If any provision, paragraph, sentence or clause of this
              By-Law or the application hereof to any person,
              establishment or circumstance shall be held invalid for
              any reason, all other provisions shall continue in full
              force and effect to the extent permitted by law.

ARTICLE 23    Public Shade Tree By-Law
              Voted:
              To amend the Marblehead By-Laws by adding a new
              Article IV in Chapter 177, Public Shade Trees,
              Protection and Fines, as follows:

                   1.   Add a new Article IV in Chapter 177, as
                        follows:




                             88
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                       Public Shade Trees, Protection and Fines:

                       Violations of the Public Shade Tree Regulations
                       of the Town of Marblehead which are approved
                       by the Board of Selectmen, may be penalized by
                       a non-criminal disposition in the manner
                       provided in chapter 40, section 21D of the
                       General laws. For the purpose of this section,
                       the specific penalty which is to apply for
                       violation of said Regulations shall be listed
                       below and the Town officer or employee whose
                       title(s) are listed shall be deemed the enforcing
                       officer(s) for the Regulations.

                       Public Shade Tree Regulations:
                       Penalty for violation of the Public Shade Tree
                       Regulations shall be as follows:

                       $300 for each offense and on each day a
                       violation exists may be deemed to be a separate
                       offense. An offense shall be deemed to occur on
                       each day from the day the offense(s) occurs
                       through the date upon which a public hearing
                       resulting in the resolution of the offense(s) is
                       closed as determined by the Tree Warden; and
                       Said penalty shall be paid in accordance with
                       G.L. c. 40 §21D.

                       This section shall be enforced by the Tree
                       Warden.

ARTICLE 24    Town Bylaws Section 209-7. Digging, dredging or
              removal of materials
              Voted:
              To add the following sentences to the end of Section
              209-7 of Chapter 209: Conservation Areas:

              Any person or organization performing or causing to be
              performed the above described activities shall remove,
              restore and rehabilitate at their expense the area on which




                            89
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



              material has been dug, dredged, removed, dumped or
              otherwise disposed of. The removal, restoration and
              rehabilitation shall be done as defined by and within the
              time frame specified by the Conservation Commission.
              In addition to the foregoing removal, restoration and
              rehabilitation, a fine in accordance with paragraph 209-
              14 may be levied against the person or organization
              causing the removal.

ARTICLE 25    Town Bylaws Section 209-5, Cutting or removal of
              trees, flowers and other plants
              Voted:
              To eliminate Section 209-5 of Chapter 209: Conservation
              Areas of the Town Bylaws as it currently reads and
              replace it with a new Section 209-5 to read as follows:

              Section 209-5. Cutting or removal of trees, flowers
              and other plants.

              Except pursuant to authority granted under paragraph
              209-4 above, the following applies:

              1.      DEFINITIONS:

                      “Vegetation” applies to trees, bushes, plants,
                      shrubs, flowers, grasses. They can be live or
                      dead, naturally occurring or human introduced.

                      “Removal” means cutting, pruning, digging,
                      poisoning, damaging, covering with yard waste
                      or any similar action resulting in the loss of the
                      vegetation.

                      “Conservation Lands” means those lands
                      currently under the jurisdiction of the
                      Marblehead Conservation Commission.

              2.      REQUIREMENTS:




                           90
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



          No vegetation is to be removed from
          conservation lands without the expressed,
          written permission of the Marblehead
          Conservation Commission.

          In the event vegetation is removed without the
          permission of the Marblehead Conservation
          Commission, all removed vegetation must be
          replaced or replanted with identical vegetation
          or its equivalent (to be approved by the
          Commission).

           Example: a tree with a diameter of one inch
          (measured six inches from its base) should be
          replaced with the same size tree.

          Example: a tree with a diameter of five inches
          (measured twelve inches from its base) should
          be replaced with five trees measuring one inch
          diameter six inches from their base.

          All expenses incurred with the replacement or
          replanting are to be borne by the person or
          organization causing the original removal.

          The replaced or replanted vegetation must have
          a survival rate of at least 70% of the replaced or
          replanted vegetation at the end of two years
          after the replacement or replanting. If the 70%
          survival rate is not met at the end of the two
          year period, sufficient additional vegetation
          must be planted to achieve the 70% survival rate
          at the end of an additional two year period.

 In addition to the foregoing replacement or replanting, a
 fine in accordance with paragraph 209-14 may be levied
 against the person or organization causing the removal.




              91
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



ARTICLE 26    Financial Assistance for Conservation
              Voted:
              To authorize the Conservation Commission and other
              proper officers of the Town to apply for financial
              assistance from public and private sources to be
              expended by the Conservation Commission for the
              purchase of vacant land and any other purpose
              authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General
              Laws as amended, or to reimburse the town for sums of
              money expended for such purposes, or both.

ARTICLE 27    Robinson Farm Land
              Voted:
              To place the land known as the Robinson Farm,
              purchased on December 1, 2005 pursuant to the approval
              by voters of Article 25 of the Annual Town Meeting of
              May 2nd and 3rd, 2005 and subsequently approved under
              a town wide referendum, under the care, custody and
              control of the Marblehead Conservation Commission to
              be used for open space purposes.

ARTICLE 28    Land Acquisition
              Voted:
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 29    Amend By-Law – Alternate Members
              Voted:
              To amend the town by-laws as follows:
              (bold text added) Amend Chapter 24 BOARDS,
              COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES, Article IV
              Planning Board paragraph 24-6 Membership, first
              paragraph which presently reads as follows: A Planning
              Board of five members hereby is established under
              Chapter 41, Section 81A of General Laws. To read
              instead; a Planning Board of five member and an
              alternate member hereby is established under Chapter
              41, Section 81A of General Laws. And add a sentence at
              the end of the paragraph which reads The alternate
              member shall be appointed by a majority vote of the
              Board of Selectmen and the Planning Board.




                            92
              MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




ARTICLE 30      Adopt Chapter 39 Section 23D
                Voted:
                To adopt chapter 39 section 23D of the Massachusetts
                general Laws allowing that a member of any municipal
                board, committee or commission when holding an
                adjudicatory hearing shall not be disqualified from
                voting on a matter solely due to that members absence
                from no more than a single session of the hearing which
                testimony or other evidence is received.

ARTICLE 31      Amend Chapter 13, ANIMALS, of the General By-
                Law
                a.        Article III Dogs, Section 13.5 Running At Large
                which presently reads:
                “No person owning, harboring or having custody and
                control of a dog shall permit such dog to be at large in
                the Town of Marblehead at any time, elsewhere than on
                the premises of the owner, except it be on the premises
                of another person with the knowledge and assent of such
                person shall control and restrain such dog by a leash of
                appropriate length. Whoever violates the provisions of
                this section shall pay a fine in accordance with the
                following schedule:

                A.       First offense within calendar year: $25.
                B.      Second or subsequent offense within calendar
                        year: $50.”
                a.      to read as follows: “No person owning,
                        harboring or having custody and control of a
                        dog shall permit such dog to be at large in the
                        Town of Marblehead at any time, elsewhere
                        than on the premises of the owner except;

             1. it be on the premises of another person with the
                knowledge and assent of such person, or
             2. it be in a Dog Park established by the Town for the
                specific purpose to allow dogs to run;
                and otherwise the dog shall be controlled and
                restrained by a leash of appropriate length. Whoever




                             93
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



 violates the provisions of this section shall pay a fine in
 accordance with the following schedule:

 A.       First offense within calendar year: $25.
 B.       Second or subsequent offense within calendar
          year: $50.

 b.        Article III Dogs, Section 13-11. Seasonal
          prohibition of dogs from certain areas. which
          presently reads: “ No person owning,
          harboring or having custody or control of a dog
          shall permit such dog to be on any public
          cemetery of the Town at any time throughout
          the year, nor shall such person permit such dog
          to be on any public beach, athletic area,
          playground or park of the Town between May 1
          and October 1 of each year, provided, however,
          that this prohibition shall not apply to Chandler
          Hovey Park, Crocker Park, Fort Sewell,
          Fountain Park, Upper Seaside Park, Riverhead
          Beach. Whoever violates the provisions of this
          section shall pay a fine in accordance with the
          following schedule:

          A.        First offense in calendar year: $25.
          B.        Second or subsequent offense within
                    calendar year $50.”

 b.        to read as follows: “ No person owning,
          harboring or having          custody or control of
          a dog shall permit such dog to be on any public
          cemetery of the Town at any time throughout
          the year, nor shall such person permit such dog
          to be on any public beach, athletic area,
          playground or park of the Town between May 1
          and October 1 of each year, provided, however,
          that this prohibition shall not apply to Chandler
          Hovey Park, Crocker Park, Fort Sewall,
          Fountain Park, Upper Seaside Park, Riverhead
          Beach or the Town designated Dog Park.




               94
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                       Whoever violates the provisions of this section
                       shall pay a fine in accordance with the
                       following schedule:

                       A.        First offense in calendar year: $25.
                       B.        Second or subsequent offense within
                                 calendar year $50.”

ARTICLE 32    Land Transfer
              Voted:
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 33    Landfill Assessment and Regulatory Compliance
              Activities
              Voted:
              That the sum of $136,400.00 is appropriated to be
              expended by the Board of Health for the continued water
              quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk assessment,
              engineering and any other services related to the Old
              Landfill.

ARTICLE 34    Disposal Area Remediation, Closure and Post Closure
              Use Option 1 (one)
              Voted:
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 35    Disposal Area Remediation and Closure
              Option 1(One) A
              Voted:
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 36    Disposal Area Remediation, Closure and Post Closure
              Use Option 2 (Two)
              Voted:
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 37    Disposal Area Remediation, Closure and Post Closure
              Option 3 (Three)
              Voted:




                            95
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                        That $1,010,000. is appropriated for the cost of
                        engineering services relating to the design of a cap and
                        post closure use of the areas encompassing the Old
                        Landfill, including design of a landfill cap, design of a
                        new Transfer Station to replace the existing Transfer
                        Station and Recycling Drop-Off Area and design for
                        continued yard waste disposal as a post closure use; that
                        to meet this appropriation the treasurer with the approval
                        of the Board of Selectmen is authorized to borrow
                        $1,010,000 under G.L. C44; and that the Board of Health
                        is authorized to take any other action necessary to carry
                        out this project; provided, however, that this vote shall
                        not take effect until the Town votes to exempt from the
                        limitation on total taxes imposed by G.L. c59 §21 (C)
                        (Proposition 2 ½) amounts required to pay the principal
                        of and interest on the borrowing authorized by this vote.

Voted to Adjourn at 10:15pm until 7:45pm, Tuesday May 8, 2007

May 8th, 2007 with a quorum present the second night of Town meeting
continued at 7:50pm

ARTICLE 38              Amend Zoning Map Rezoning a Single Residence
                        Area to Business
                        Counted Vote: Yes 190                No 180
                        2/3 Vote not achieved:
                        To revise the Zoning Map of the Town by taking an area
                        that is presently zoned Single Residence and changing its
                        designation to Business. This area to be rezoned is
                        described as follows:
                        The lot of land with a building thereon known as an
                        numbered 242-260 Humphrey Street, Marblehead,
                        Massachusetts, being Assessor’s Map 4, Parcel 14, as
                        shown on the plan entitled “Site Plan 242-260 Humphrey
                        Street Marblehead, MA, Land of Beach Bluff LLC”,
                        Dated November 7. 2006, prepared by Kane Land
                        Surveyors, a copy of which plan is on file in the Office
                        of the Town Clerk.

ARTICLE 39              Land Acquisition, Longview Drive




                                     96
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                         Counted Vote Yes 273                 No 276
                         2/3 Vote not achieved
                         To authorize and direct the Board of Selectmen, with
                         approval of Town Counsel as to form, to execute and
                         record all necessary and appropriate documents to
                         effectuate the acquisition, purchase, or acceptance of a
                         certain parcel of land owned by Mario and Camille
                         Angenica, located on Longview Drive West and
                         identified on Marblehead Assessor’s Map 21 as Lot 19 to
                         be used for open space purposes dedicated to
                         conservation and passive recreational use under the care,
                         custody, and control of the Marblehead Conservation
                         Commission pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws
                         Chapter 40, Section 8C, upon Such terms and conditions
                         as the Board of Selectmen deem to be in the best interest
                         of the Town; and provided, however,
Voted to Adjourn at 10:35pm until May 8th at 7:45pm
May 9th, 2007 with a quorum present Town Meeting continued at 8:00pm

ARTICLE 40                Grant Access and Maintenance Easements
                          Counted Vote Yes 279             No 148
                          2/3 Vote Achieved

                          To Authorize the Board of Selectmen, with the
                          approval of Town Counsel as to form, and subsequent
                          to the issuance of a building permit to any developer for
                          any proposed development of the “lead mills” property
                          located in Salem and Marblehead at 485 Lafayette Street,
                          to execute and record all necessary and appropriate
                          documents to effectuate the grant of all or any
                          portion of the easements for utility installation,
                          construction and maintenance purposes, and for
                          emergency and public access and maintenance
                          purposes, as described in Article 41 and shown on the
                          plan entitled “Plan of Easements. Lafayette Tides in
                          Marblehead, Mass.”, dated January 23, 2007,
                          prepared by Hayes Engineering, Inc. Civil Engineers
                          & Land Surveyors, a copy of which plan is on file in
                          the Office of the Town Clerk, in exchange for
                          appropriate consideration and provided the owner of




                                       97
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



              said 485 Lafayette Street pays the Town’s costs of
              effectuating said transaction. Or take any other
              action relative thereto.

ARTICLE 41    Grant Access and Maintenance Easements
              2/3 Vote Achieved
              To Instruct the Board of Selectmen , the Water and
              Sewer Commission and the Municipal Light Department,
              with the approval of Town Counsel as to form, and
              subsequent to the issuance of a building permit to any
              developer for any proposed development of the “lead
              mills” property located in Salem and Marblehead at
              485 Lafayette Street, to grant certain permanent and/or
              temporary easements for utility installation, construction
              and maintenance purposes, and for emergency and public
              access and maintenance purposes, in conjunction with
              the development of that parcel of land known as and
              numbered 485 Lafayette Street, Marblehead,
              Massachusetts, and to allow the Board of Selectmen, the
              Water and Sewer Commission and the Municipal Light
              Department to more specifically define the easement area
              within which that area shown on a plan entitled “Plan of
              Easements, Lafayette Tides in Marblehead, Mass.”,
              dated January 23, 2007, prepared by Hayes Engineering,
              Inc. Civil Engineers & Land Surveyors, a copy of which
              plan is on file in the Office of the Town Clerk. Or take
              any other action relative thereto.

ARTICLE 42    Acquire Utility Easements
              Voted:
              To Authorize the Board of Selectmen, with the
              approval of Town Counsel as to form, and subsequent
              to the issuance of a building permit to any developer for
              any proposed development of the “lead mills” property
              located in Salem and Marblehead at 485 Lafayette Street,
              to execute and record all necessary and appropriate
              documents to effectuate the acquisition, purchase or
              acceptance of all or any portion of the easements for
              utility installation, construction and maintenance
              purposes, as described in Article 43 and shown on the




                           98
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



              plan entitled “Plan of Easements, Lafayette Tides in
              Marblehead, Mass.”, dated January 23, 2007,
              prepared by Hayes Engineering, Inc. Civil Engineers
              & Land Surveyors, a copy of which plan is on file in
              the Office of the Town Clerk, in exchange for
              appropriate consideration and provided the owner of
              said 485 Lafayette Street pays the Town’s costs of
              effectuating said transaction. Or take any other
              action relative thereto.

ARTICLE 43    Acquire Utility Easements
              Voted:
              To instruct the Board of Selectmen, the Water and Sewer
              Commission and the Municipal Light Department, with
              the approval of Town Counsel as to form, and
              subsequent to the issuance of a building permit to any
              developer for any proposed development of the “lead
              mills” property located in Salem and Marblehead at
              485 Lafayette Street, to acquire by gift or purchase or
              take by eminent domain certain permanent and or
              temporary easements for utility installation, construction
              and maintenance purposes, in conjunction with the
              development of that parcel of land known as and
              numbered 485 Lafayette Street, Marblehead,
              Massachusetts, and to allow the Board of Selectmen, the
              Water and Sewer Commission and the Municipal Light
              Department to more specifically define the easement area
              within which that area shown on a plan entitled “Plan of
              Easements, Lafayette Tides in Marblehead, Mass.”,
              dated January 23, 2007, prepared by Hayes Engineering,
              Inc. Civil Engineers & Land Surveyors, a copy of which
              plan is on file in the office of the Town Clerk.

ARTICLE 44    Transfer Existing Easement
              Voted:
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 45    Release Existing Easement
              Voted:
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.




                            99
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




ARTICLE 46    Amend Zoning By-Law to
              Establish Multifamily Residence District

              Received no report from Planning Board Pursuant to
              Mass General Law Chapter 48 Section 5 Article not
              considered.

ARTICLE 47    Amend Zoning Map Rezoning a Shoreline Single
              Residence Area to Multifamily Residence


              Received no report from Planning Board Pursuant to
              Mass General Law Chapter 48 Section 5 Article not
              considered.

ARTICLE 48    Layout and acceptance of Tioga Way
              Voted:
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 49    Land Acquisition
              Voted:
              That this article be indefinitely postponed.

ARTICLE 50    Capital Improvements Abbot Public Library
              Voted:
              That the sum of $281,000.00 be appropriated to be
              expended by the Library trustees for the purpose of
              remodeling or making extraordinary repairs, including all
              professional architectural, design or engineering fees, to
              the Abbot Public Library, provided: that this vote shall
              not take effect until the Town votes to exempt from the
              limitations on total taxes imposed by G.L. c.59, Section
              21C (Proposition 2 ½) amounts required for said capital
              outlay expenditures.

ARTICLE 51    Ratification of Salary By-Law
              Voted:
              To ratify certain actions taken by the Compensation
              Committee under Section 3(e) of the 1955 Salary By-




                           100
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



              Law as last amended and amend the classifications of the
              positions as follows:

              1.       Reclassify positions in the Administrative Pay
                       Schedule
                       A.       Director, Council on Aging, from
                                Group 54 to Group 55
                       B.       Assistant Sewer/Water Superintendent
                                from Group 54 to Group 55
              2.       Reclassify and change job title in the
                       Administrative Pay Schedule


                       A.      One Accounting Assistant position
                               from Group 51 to Group 52 with the
                               new title of Accounting and Website
                               Assistant
                       B.      Senior Clerk position in the Payroll
                               Office reclassified as an
                               Administrative Clerk Group 50
              3.       Addition of position title and grade to
                       Temporary Personnel Pay Scale
                       A.      Add Heavy Equipment Operator Group
                               26 to Temporary Personnel Pay
                               Schedule

ARTICLE 52    Causeway Seawall
              Voted:
              That the sum of $8,700,000.00 be appropriated for the
              construction and/or reconstruction of the Ocean Avenue
              Causeway for the protection of highways, that to meet
              this appropriation the Treasurer, with the approval of the
              Board of Selectmen, is authorized to borrow up to
              $8,700,000.00 under G.L. C. 44; and that the Board of
              Selectmen is authorized to take any other action
              necessary to carry out this project; provided, however,
              that this vote shall not take effect until the Town votes to
              exempt from the limitation on total taxes imposed by
              G.L. C. 59, Section 21C (Proposition 2 ½) amounts




                            101
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



              required to pay the principal of and interest on the
              borrowing authorized by this vote.

ARTICLE 53    Fiscal 2007 Expenses of Several Departments
              Voted:
              That the sum of $601,108.00 be appropriated as follows.
              Article 49 2006 Expenses of Several Departments
                               Item 221 Group Insurance $351,108.00
              Article 27 2006 Water Construction          250,000.00

              To meet this appropriation, $250,000.00 is to be
              transferred from water retained earnings and
              $351,108.00 is to be raised by taxation, to pay additional
              expenses in fiscal 2007.

ARTICLE 54    Compensation – Town Officers
              Voted:
              That the yearly compensation of the Town Officer
              named in this article be as follows:
                    Town Clerk                     $64,618.05

              Said amount to be in full compensation for services as
              Town Clerk. All fees received by the Town Clerk in his
              official capacity to be accounted for to the Town
              Revenue Officer.

              That the Town Clerk as elected and having served in that
              position or as a regular full-time employee for five
              consecutive years, and for each applicable additional five
              years on such basis, shall be paid longevity pay annually,
              in addition to his weekly salary.

              Eligibility will be determined on November 30 each year
              and payment made to the official with the first regular
              payroll of December of that year. Only those in office
              on the determination date and qualified by their
              consecutive years of service, as described above, shall
              receive longevity pay for the calendar year.

              Annual Longevity Town Clerk               Pay Schedule




                           102
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



              Not less than 5 years                      $300.00
              Not less than 10 years                      400.00
              Not less than 15 years                      500.00
              Not less than 20 years                      600.00
              Not less than 25 years                      700.00
              30 years and over                           800.00

ARTICLE 55    Available Funds Appropriated to Reduce the Tax
              Rate
              Voted:
              That the sum of $2,999,212.00 be appropriated for the
              use of the Assessors in making the Tax Rate.
              From Free Cash                            $2,440,184.00
              From Electric Surplus                        330,000.00
              Sewer Retained Earnings                       77,712.00
              Water Retained Earnings                       60,825.00
              Harbor Receipts                                1,498.00
              Harbor Retained Earnings                      88,993.00
                                                        $2,999,212.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 1 Moderator
              Voted:
              That the sum of $100.00 be and hereby is appropriated
              for the Moderator as follows:
              Item      1      Officials Expense         $100.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 2 3 4 5 6 Selectmen
              Voted:
              That the sum of $413,096.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Selectmen as follows:
              Item 2 Officials Expense                      $5,500.00
              Item 3 Salaries & Wages                      326,433.00
              Item 4 Expense                                72,163.00
              Item 5 Zoning Board Legal Expenses             7,000.00
              Item 6 Out of State Travel                     2,000.00
                                                         $413,096.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments




                          103
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



              Items 7 8 9 Finance Committee
              Voted:
              That the sum of $13,437.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Finance Committee as follows:
              Item 7            Salaries & Wages            $7,677.00
              Item 8            Expense                      5,585.00
              Item 9            Local Travel                   175.00
                                                           $13,437.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 10 Reserve Fund
              Voted:
              That the sum of $144,000.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Reserve Fund.

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 1 2 13 Finance Department
              Voted:
              That the sum of $825,949.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Finance Department as follows:
              Item 12           Salaries & Wages         $ 579,744.00
              Item 13           Expense                    246,205.00
                                                         $ 825,949.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 17 18 19 20          Assessor
              Voted:
              That the sum of $197,177.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Assessor as follows:
              Item 17           Officials Expense     $        300.00
              Item 18           Salaries & Wages           162,692.00
              Item 19           Expense                     33,985.00
              Item 20           Local Travel                   200.00
                                                      $    197,177.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 29 30       Town Counsel
              Voted:
              That the sum of $54,932.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Town Counsel as follows:




                          104
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



              Item 29            Salaries & Wages          $ 2,000.00
              Item 30            Expense                     52,932.00
                                                           $ 54,932.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 35           Parking Clerk
              Voted:
              That the sum of $10,484.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Parking Clerk Department as
              follows:
              Item 35                    Expense          $ 10,484.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 39 40       Town Clerk
              Voted:
              That the sum of $145,082.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Town Clerk as follows:
              Item 39           Salaries & Wages           $137,545.00
              Item 40           Expense                        7,537.00
                                                           $145,082.00
ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 43 44       Election and Registration
              Voted:
              That the sum of $45,754.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Election and Registration as follows:
              Item 43           Salaries & Wages           $ 25,139.00
              Item 44           Expense                       20,615.00
                                                           $ 45,754.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 50           Planning Board
              Voted:
              That the sum of $1,675.00 be and hereby is appropriated
              for the Planning Board as follows:
              Item 50           Expense                   $1,675.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 55 56 57          Public Buildings
              Voted:




                           105
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



              That the sum of $185,105.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Public Buildings as follows:
              Item 55           Salaries & Wages            $ 83,605.00
              Item 56           Expense                      101,100.00
              Item 57           Local Travel                     400.00
                                                            $185,105.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 59                   Town Report
              Voted:
              That the sum of $4,300.00 be and hereby is appropriated
              for the Town Report to be expended by the Board of
              Selectmen.

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 60                   Town Audit
              Voted:
              That the sum of $36,000.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Town Audit to be expended by the
              Board of Selectmen.

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 62 63 64             Police Department
              Voted:
              That the sum of $2,934,787.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Police Department as follows:
              Item 62 Salaries & Wages                $2,737,175.00
              Item 63 Expense                             187,612.00
              Item 64 Indemnification of Officers          10,000.00
                                                      $2,934,787.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 68 69                Fire Department
              Voted:
              That the sum of $2,709,544.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Fire Department as follows:
              Item 68           Salaries & Wages       $ 2,587,296.00
              Item 69           Expense                    122,248.00
                                                       $2,709,544.00




                          106
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 73 74 75             Building Inspection
              Voted:
              That the sum of $431,069.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for Building Inspection as follows:
              Item 73           Salaries & Wages           $418,314.00
              Item 74           Expense                        9,755.00
              Item 75           Local Travel                   3,000.00
                                                           $431,069.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 80           Sealer of Weights and Measures
              Voted:
              That the sum of $150.00.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Sealer of Weights and Measures as
              follows:
              Item 80           Expense                       $150.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 86           Animal Inspector
              Voted:
              That the sum of $1,200.00 be and hereby is appropriated
              for the Animal Inspector as follows:
              Item 86           Salaries                    $1,200.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 92 93                Dog Officer
              Voted:
              That the sum of $68,596.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Dog Officer as follows:
              Item 92           Salaries & Wages           $ 63,809.00
              Item 93           Expense                       4,787.00
                                                           $ 68,596.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 101                  School Department
              Voted:
              That the sum of $25,645,913.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the School Department.




                          107
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 105 106 107          Engineer
              Voted:
              That the sum of $119,567.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Engineer as follows:
              Item 105          Salaries & Wages         $108,672.00
              Item 106          Expense                    10,395.00
              Item 107          Local Travel                  500.00
                                                         $119,567.00

              To meet this appropriation, $3,000 is to be transferred
              from Wetland Filing Fees and $116,567 to be taken from
              Taxation.

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 112 113              Highway
              Voted:
              That the sum of $709,324.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Highway as follows:
              Item 112          Salaries & Wages         $623,390.00
              Item 113          Expense                    85,934.00
                                                         $709,324.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 116 Rebuild, Maintain or Hot Top Streets
              Voted:
              That the sum of $10,741.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated to rebuild or hottop certain streets and said
              work to be done under the direction of the Director of
              Public Works and said sum of money to be expended by
              the Director of Public Works.

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 117          Snow Removal
              Voted:
              That the sum of $100,000.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the use of the Director of Public Works
              to cover all expenses incidental to snow removal.

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments




                           108
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



              Item 118          Street Lighting
              Voted:
              That the sum of $117,550.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Street Lighting in accordance with
              Section 58, Chapter 164 of the Massachusetts General
              Laws.

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 121          Maintain & Rebuild Sidewalks
              Voted:
              That the sum of $13,950.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for use of the Director of Public Works to
              maintain and rebuild various sidewalks in town.

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 126 127 128          Waste Collection
              Voted:
              That the sum of $1,631,606.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Waste Collection as follows:
              Item 126          Salaries & Wages       $ 350,689.00
              Item 127          Expense                   1,279,405.00
              Item 128          Local Travel                  1,512.00
                                                       $ 1,631,606.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 132 133              Drains
              Voted:
              That the sum of $98,016.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Drains as follows:
              Item 132          Salaries & Wages          $ 92,866.00
              Item 133          Expense                      5,150.00
                                                          $ 98,016.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 141 142 143          Cemetery
              Voted:
              That the sum of $305,553.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Cemetery as follows:
              Item 141          Officials Expense        $     300.00
              Item 142          Salaries & Wages           283,407.00




                           109
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



              Item 143          Expenses                      21,846.00
                                                           $305,553.00
              To meet this appropriation, $249,123 is to be raised by
              taxation, and $56,430 to be transferred from Cemetery
              Perpetual Care.

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 148 149              Tree
              Voted:
              That the sum of $194,990.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Tree Department as follows:
              Item 148          Salaries & Wages           $163,412.00
              Item 149          Expense                      31,578.00
                                                           $194,990.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 153 154 155 157 158           Health Department
              Voted:
              That the sum of $131,983.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Health Department as follows:
              Item 153          Officials Expense         $     400.00
              Item 154          Salaries & Wages            116,338.00
              Item 155          Expense                      10,645.00
              Item 157          Local Travel                  1,600.00
              Item 158          HAWC                          3,000.00
                                                          $131,983.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 162                  Mental Health
              Voted:
              That the sum of $71,728.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Mental Health Department as
              follows:
              Item 162          Contractual Services      $ 71,728.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 164 165             Council on Aging
              Voted:
              That the sum of $159,351.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Council on Aging as follows:




                          110
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



              Item 164          Salaries & Wages          $156,492.00
              Item 165          Expense                      2,859.00
                                                          $159,351.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 175 176 177 178 Veterans Benefits
              Voted:
              That the sum of $70,174.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Veterans Benefits as follows:
              Item 175          Salaries & Wages            $ 53,213.00
              Item 176          Expense                        1,243.00
              Item 177          Local Travel                   1,100.00
              Item 178          Benefits                      14,618.00
                                                            $ 70,174.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 185 186 187          Library
              Voted:
              That the sum of $908,550.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Abbot Public Library as follows:
              Item 185          Salaries & Wages           $687,410.00
              Item 186          Expense                     221,040.00
              Item 187          Local Travel                    100.00
                                                           $908,550.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 190 191 192          Park Department
              Voted:
              That the sum of $730,647.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Park and Recreation as follows:
              Item 190          Salaries & Wages           $531,727.00
              Item 191          Expense                     156,290.00
              Item 192          Facility Expense              42,630.00
                                                           $730,647.00

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 210        Memorial & Veterans Day
              Voted:




                          111
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



              That the sum of $1,950.00 be and hereby is appropriated
              for Memorial and Veterans Day, said sum of money to
              be expended by the Board of Selectmen.

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 214 215 Maturing Bonds and Interest
              Voted:
              That the sum of $4,239,169.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Maturing Bonds and Interest as
              follows:
              Item 214          Maturing Debt          $ 2,945,000.00
              Item 215          Interest                 1,294,169.00
                                                       $4,239,169.00

              To meet this appropriation, $149,310 is to be transferred
              from Bond Premium Reserved for Appropriation and
              $4,089,859 to be raised by taxation.

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 217                   Contributory Retirement
              Voted:
              That the sum of $1,854,973.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Contributory Retirement Fund.

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 218                  Medicare
              Voted:
              That the sum of $380,000.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for Medicare, to be expended by the
              Finance Director.

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 219          Workmens Compensation
              Voted:
              That the sum of $200,000.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated to be added to the Workmens
              Compensation Trust Fund (and allowed to accumulate
              from year to year) to be expended by the Finance
              Director to pay expenses of Workmens Compensation.




                           112
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 221                  Group Insurance
              Voted:
              That the sum of $9,131,501.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for Group Insurance to be expended by the
              Finance Director.

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 222                   Other Insurance
              Voted:
              That the sum of $475,888.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for Other Insurance, to be expended by the
              Board of Selectmen.

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 224          NonContributory Retirement
              Voted:
              That the sum of $160,200.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for NonContributory Retirement, to be
              expended by the Finance Director/Town Accountant.

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 225          Energy Reserve
              Voted:
              That the sum of $326,000.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for Energy Reserve, to be expended by the
              Board of Selectmen.

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 227 228 230          Sewer Department
              Voted:
              That the sum of $3,102,786.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Sewer Department as follows:
              Item 227          Salaries & Wages          $545,791.00
              Item 228          Expense                    418,890.00
              Item 230       South Essex Sewer District 2,138,105.00
                                                       $3,102,786.00

              To meet this appropriation, $3,102,786 is to be
              transferred from sewer receipts.




                           113
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 231 232 235          Water Department
              Voted:
              That the sum of $2,581,128.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Water Department as follows:
              Item 231          Salaries & Wages          $536,517.00
              Item 232          Expense                    416,547.00
              Item 235          Metropolitan Water       1,628,064.00
                                                        $2,581,128.00

              To meet this appropriation, $2,581,128 is to be
              transferred from water receipts.

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Item 236          Municipal Light Department
              Voted:
              That the income from sales of electricity to private
              consumers, from electricity supplied to municipal
              buildings and electricity supplied for municipal power
              during the current fiscal year be appropriated for the
              Municipal Light Plant, the whole to be expended by the
              manager of the Municipal Lighting Plant, under the
              direction and control of the Municipal Light Board for
              the expense of the plant for said fiscal year as defined in
              Section 57 of Chapter 164 of the General Laws; and said
              Municipal Light Board is hereby further authorized to
              pay from income of the plant for the fiscal year such
              amounts as may be expended for extensions,
              reconstruction enlargements, or additions and sell or
              trade apparatus that has worn out its usefulness and is
              unfit for requirements during the fiscal year.

ARTICLE 56    Expenses of Several Departments
              Items 238 239 240 241              Harbor Department
              Voted:
              That the sum of $600,534.00 be and hereby is
              appropriated for the Harbor Department as follows:
              Item 238          Salaries & Wages          $287,304.00
              Item 239          Expense                    196,925.00




                           114
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                        Item 240           Bonds and Interest          51,705.00
                        Item 241           Outlays                     64,600.00
                                                                     $600,534.00

                        To meet this appropriation, $600,534 is to be transferred
                        from harbor receipts.

ARTICLE 57              Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
                        Voted:
                        That this article be indefinitely postponed.

At 9:50 p.m., the Moderator dissolved the 2007 Annual Town Meeting.




                                     115
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                               Town Of Marblehead
                                 Town Warrant
                                 Special Election
                                 June 25th, 2007

Commonwealth of Massachusetts,

County of Essex, ss

to Any Constable in the Town of Marblehead

Greeting:
         You are hereby further required and directed to notify and warn the
Inhabitants of the Town of Marblehead aforesaid who are qualified to vote in
elections and in Town affairs to subsequently meet at the several designated polling
places in their respective precincts in said Marblehead to wit:

In Precinct 1 – Polling Place – Old Town House
In Precinct 2 – Polling Place – Star Of The Sea Community Center
In Precinct 3 – Polling Place – Star Of The Sea Community Center
In Precinct 4 – Polling Place – Star Of The Sea Community Center
In Precinct 5 – Polling Place – Marblehead Community Center
In Precinct 6 – Polling Place – Marblehead Community Center
In Precinct 7 – Polling Place – Marblehead Community Center

          On Monday, the 25th day of June next A.D. 2007 at 7 o’clock in the
forenoon then and there to bring into precinct officers of their respective precincts
their votes on one ballot on the following questions to wit:

         For these purposes the polls will be open at each and all of said precincts at
7’o’clock in the forenoon then and there to bring into precinct officers of their
respective precincts their votes on one ballot on the following questions to wit:


                                      Question 1
Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from provisions of Proposition
two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bonds to be issued
in order to finance Article 37 of the 2007 Annual Town meeting for the purpose of
financing engineering services relating to the design of a cap and post closure use of
the areas encompassing the Old Landfill, including design of a landfill cap, design




                                         116
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



of a new Transfer Station to replace the existing Transfer Station and Recycling
Drop-Off Area and design for continued yard waste disposal as a post closure use?

                                     Question 2
Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from provisions of Proposition
two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond issued in order
to finance Article 52 of the Annual Town Meeting for the purpose of construction
and/or reconstruction of the Ocean Avenue Causeway Seawall for the protection of
highways, property and the harbor, including engineering services in connection
therewith?

                                      Question 3
Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to assess an additional $281,000.00 in
real estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of Article 50 of the 2007
Annual Town Meeting for the purpose of remodeling, and making extraordinary
repairs, including professional architectural, design or engineering fees, to the
Abbot Public Library for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2007?

          For these purposes the polls will be open at each and all of said precincts at
7 o’clock in the forenoon and will be closed at 8 o’clock in the afternoon at each
and all of said precincts and you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting
attested copies thereof at Abbot Hall and ten (10) other conspicuous places in Town
as required by the By-Laws not later than ten(10 days after being closed.

         Hereof fail not and make due return of this Warrant or certified copy
thereof with your doings thereon, to each of the several precinct wardens at the time
and place of meeting aforesaid and to the Town Clerk as soon as maybe before said
meetings.

         Given under our hands at Marblehead aforesaid this 16th day of May, 2007.

                                     Harry C. Christensen, Jr., Chairman
                                     Jackie Belf-Becker
                                     Judith R. Jacobi
                                     James Nye
                                     William L. Woodfin, II

A True Copy Attest: Cabot W. Dodge, Constable




                                         117
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                      Town Of Marblehead, Massachusetts
                               Special Election
                           Monday, June 25, 2007

Precinct 1         435               19.5%    of 2,236 Registered Voters
Precinct 2         298               14.8%    of 2,011 Registered Voters
Precinct 3         321               17.1%    of 1,873 Registered Voters
Precinct 4         479               22.4%    of 2,139 Registered Voters
Precinct 5         304               14.9%    of 2,041 Registered Voters
Precinct 6         413               18.9%    of 2,181 Registered Voters
Precinct 7         385               18.2%    of 2,112 Registered Voters
Total              2635              18.1%    of 14,593 Registered Voters

                           Canvass completed at 8:45p.m.

                                         QUESTION 1
Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from provisions of Proposition
two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bonds to be issued
in order to finance Article 37 of the 2007 Annual Town meeting for the purpose of
financing engineering services relating to the design of a cap and post closure use of
the areas encompassing the Old Landfill, including design of a landfill cap, design
of a new Transfer Station to replace the existing Transfer Station and Recycling
Drop-Off Area and design for continued yard waste disposal as a post closure use?

Precinct     1       2         3        4         5        6         7         Total
Blanks        2       2         0       13        2        2         3          22
Yes          275     195       228      335       197      276       241       1747
No           158     101       93       131       105      135       141       864
Total        435     298       321      479       304      413       385       2635

                                   QUESTION 2
Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to exempt from provisions of Proposition
two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond issued in order
to finance Article 52 of the Annual Town Meeting for the purpose of construction
and/or reconstruction of the Ocean Avenue Causeway Seawall for the protection of
highways, property and the harbor, including engineering services in connection
therewith?

Precinct     1       2         3        4         5        6         7         Total
Blanks       2       1         1        1         1        1         2          9




                                        118
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Yes        240       166      205       358       169      226       201      1565
No         193       131      115       120       134      186       182      1061
Total      435       298      321       479       304      413       385      2635


                                    QUESTION 3
Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to assess an additional $281,000.00 in
real estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of Article 50 of the 2007
Annual Town Meeting for the purpose of remodeling, and making extraordinary
repairs, including professional architectural, design or engineering fees, to the
Abbot Public Library for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2007?

Precinct   1         2        3         4         5        6         7        Total
Blanks      1         2        4        5         1        0         3         16
Yes        250       156      199       324       186      251       198      1564
No         184       140      118       150       117      162       184      1055
Total      435       298      321       479       304      413       385      2635




                                        119
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



     TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD ELECTED OFFICIALS 2007 - 2008

SELECTMAN                                              Term Expires
--Abbot Hall, Marblehead, MA 01945
Jackie Belf-Becker                                            2008
Harry Christensen - Chair                                     2008
Judith R. Jacobi                                              2008
James E. Nye                                                  2008
Wiliam L. Woodfin, II                                         2008

TOWN CLERK
--Abbot Hall, Marblehead, MA 01945
Robin A. Michaud                                              2010

ASSESSORS
--Mary A. Alley Building, Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945
John Kelley – Chair                                           2008
Ann Nancy McCarthy - Secretary                                2010
Richard O. Riess                                              2009

CEMETERY COMMISSION
--Waterside Cemetery, Marblehead, MA 01945
Dexter C. Gillis -Chair                                       2009
Rose Ann Wheeler McCarthy - Clerk                             2008
Vacant                                                        2010

BOARD OF HEALTH
--Mary A. Alley Building, Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945
David Becker                                                  2008
Carl D. Goodman - Chair                                       2009
Helaine Hazlett - Secretary                                   2010

HOUSING AUTHORITY
--26 Rowland Street, Marblehead, MA 01945
Pamela Basso – Chair                                          2009
Robert T. Bryne                                               2010
Jean R. Eldridge                                              2011
Peter Russell – Appointed by State                            2011
Richard M. Whitehill                                          2008




                                  120
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



TRUSTEES OF ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY
--235 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA 01945     Term Expires
Peggy G. Blass                                                  2009
Judy Gates                                                      2010
Jean Howe                                                       2008
Susan L. Indresano                                              2009
Robin A. Michaud                                                2008
Philip Sweeney - Chair                                          2010

MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSIONER
Wilbur E. Bassett                                               2009
Calvin T. Crawford                                              2010
Walter E. Homan                                                 2010
Charles O. Phillips                                             2008
Phillip W. Sweeney, Chair                                       2009

MODERATOR
Mary A. Alley Building, Marblehead MA
Gary A. Spiess                                                  2008

PLANNING BOARD
--c/o Engineering Office, Mary A. Alley Building, Marblehead, MA 01945
James Bishop                                                     2009
Philip Helmes                                                    2008
Karl A. Johnson                                                  2009
Dave Stern – Chair                                               2008
Vacant                                                           2010

RECREATION & PARK COMMISSION
--Marblehead Community Center, 10 Humphrey Street, Marblehead, MA
Linda A. Rice Collins                                       2008
Sam Ganglani                                                2008
Derek Y. Norcross                                           2008
Charles E. Osborne, Jr.                                     2008
David C. Rodgers                                            2008

SCHOOL COMMITTEE
--Mary Alley Building, Marblehead, MA 01945
Patricia Blackmer                                               2008
Robert A. Dana – Chair                                          2008




                                   121
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Amy T. Drinker                                        2010
Jonathan S. Lederman                                  2010
James Dearborn                                        2009

WATER & SEWER COMMISSION
--Tower Way, Marblehead MA 01945                Term Expires
Wilbur E. Bassett                                     2010
Emerson F. Brown - Vice Chair                         2009
Thomas M. Carroll                                     2008
Bradford N. Freeman                                   2008
F. Carlton Siegel - Chair                             2010




                                122
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                      TOWN OFFICIALS APPOINTED
                     BY THE BOARD OF SELECTMEN
                              May 2007

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR
Anthony M. Sasso

AMERICAN DISABILITIES ACT COORDINATOR
Anthony M. Sasso                                   2008

ANIMAL INSPECTOR at $1,200 per year
Isabel M. Lorenco                                  2008

BUILDING COMMISSIONER AND INSPECTORS
Commissioner - Robert S. Ives, Jr.                 2008
Local Inspector - William R. Doane                 2008
Local Inspector - Chris Butler                     2008
Plumbing Inspector - Domingos Furtado              2008
Assistant Plumbing Inspector – Peter McCarriston   2008
Wiring Inspector – Ronald J. Marks                 2008
Assistant Wiring Inspector – Eric F.S. Chisholm    2008

CANINE CONTROL CLERK
Robin Michaud – Town Clerk                         2008

ASSISTANT DOG OFFICERS FOR THE PARKS
Robert Gillis                                      2008
R. Thomas Hamond                                   2008
Peter James                                        2008
C. Michael Lane                                    2008
Ed Park                                            2008
Reggie Berry                                       2008
Mike Atkins                                        2008
Greg Snow                                          2008
Art Beauchesne                                     2008
Walter Leszczynski                                 2008

TOWN COUNSEL at $2,000 per year
Vacant                                             2008
Brody, Hardoon, Perkins & Kesten, Assistant        2008




                                     123
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Leonard Kesten, Assistant                       2008
Marc J. Miller, Assistant                       2008
Mary Ellen Walsh-Rogalski, Assistant            2008
Earl Weissman, Assistant                        2008
Patrick J. Costello, Assistant                  2008
Lisa L. Mead, Assistant                         2008
Francis Mayo, Assistant                         2008
Jeffrey N. Shribman, Assistant                  2008

COUNCIL ON AGING DIRECTOR
Patricia C. Roberts                             2008

EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR
Charles P. Cerrutti                             2008
TOWN ENGINEER
Douglas W. Saal                                 2008

FLAG OFFICER
David C. Rodgers                                2008

FOREST WARDEN – Term: 1 Year
Chief Barry C. Dixey, Fire Department           2008

HARBOR MASTER AND ASSISTANTS
Charles J. Dalferro, Harbor Master              2008
         Assistant Harbor Masters
         Webb Russell                           2008
         Daniel Roads, Jr.                      2008
         Assistant Harbormasters (Seasonal):
         Frank MacIver                          2008
         Thomas Murray                          2008
         Ray Gauthier                           2008
         Joseph Homan                           2008
         Jeffrey Flynn                          2008

LICENSING AUTHORITY, DULY DESIGNATED AGENTS
Police Chief Robert O. Picariello               2008
Captain Vacant                                  2008
Lieutenants:
          Matthew Freeman                       2008




                                        124
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



             Jonathan Lunt                         2008
             David J. Millett                      2008
             Mark D. Mills                         2008
Sergeants:
          Sean Sweeney                             2008
          Donald Decker                            2008
Detective Sergeants:
           Marion Keating                          2008
           Vacant                                  2008

MEASURER OF LEATHER – Term: 1 Year
John Smidt                                         2008

TOWN DESIGNEE MASS. WATER RESOURCE AUTHORITY - Term: 1Yr
F. Carlton Siegel                                2008
Alternate: Dana Snow, Water and Sewer Department


PARKING CLERK /HEARING CLERK – Term: 1 Year
Anthony M. Sasso, Town Administrator               2008

CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER
Rebecca L. Curran                                  2008

PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
Dana Snow                                          2008

RETIREMENT BOARD – Term: 1 Year
Anthony M. Sasso, Town Administrator               2008

“RIGHT TO KNOW” COORDINATOR – Term: 1 Year
Barry C. Dixey – Fire Department                   2008

SEALER OF WEIGHTS & MEASURES
David C. Rodgers                                   2008

SPECIAL AUXILARY POLICE
Patrolmen:
          James Donovan                            2008
SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS




                                   125
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Robert S. Ives, Jr.                                  2008

TAX COLLECTOR/TREASURER
Patricia Kelly Murray                                2008

VETERANS’ AGENT & DIRECTOR OF VETERANS’ SERVICES
Term: 1 year
David C. Rodgers                               2008

VETERANS’ GRAVES OFFICER Term: 1 Year
David C. Rodgers                                     2008

WORKERS’ COMPENSATION AGENT Term 1 Year
Massachusetts Interlocal Insurance Association       2008

TOWN ACCOUNTANT– Term 3 Years
John J. McGinn                                       2010

ARMED FORCES LIAISON– Term: 1 Year
John M. McCloskey                                    2008

CABLE TV OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE – Term: 3 Years (staggered)
Peter Lazarus                                        2010
Nancy Marrs                                          2009
Paul Rabin                                           2009
Alan G. Raymond                                      2008
Vacant                                               2010
Vacant                                               2010
David C. Keniston                                    2008

CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE – Term: 3 Years
Michael Auerbach                                     2010
Thomas Gawrys                                        2009
Edward Lang                                          2009
Victor Wild                                          2009
Joe Zelloe                                           2010
John J. McGinn – Ex Officio                          2008

CARETAKER AND ASSISTANT, FORT BEACH – Term: 1 Year




                               126
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



William H. Powers                                                2008
Assistant Caretaker-        Vacant                               2008

CHAPLAIN – MARBLEHEAD POLICE DEPARTMENT – Term 1 Year
Rabbi Jonas Goldberg                            2008

CONSERVATION COMMISSION – Term: 3 Years (staggered)
Frederick Sullivan                                               2010
Vacant                                                           2010
Elizabeth Rickards                                               2010
Craig Smith                                                      2009
Vacant                                                           2009
Walter S. Haug                                                   2009
Mark A. Klopfer                                                  2008

CONSTABLES for Postings in Town – Term: 1 Year
Cabot Dodge                                                      2008

CONSTABLES
     • for the Purpose of Serving Civil Process – Term: 1 Year
Gail Brown                                                       2008
Cabot Dodge                                                      2008
Donald B. Hurwitz                                                2008
David Scott Jackson                                              2008
Paul Minsky                                                      2008
Peter Russell                                                    2008

CONSTABLES
   • Shellfish
Wayne O. Attridge – Chief Constable - 3 yr. term                 2010

Term: 1 Year
Raymond H. Bates, Jr.                                            2008
David Donahue                                                    2008
R. Thomas Hamond                                                 2008
Jeffrey Flynn                                                    2008
Harry C. Christensen, Jr.                                        2008
Jack Attridge                                                    2008
Deborah Fadden                                                   2008
Susan Hogan                                                      2008




                                      127
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Douglas Aikman                                     2008

COUNCIL ON AGING – Term: 3 Years
Edward Bell                                        2010
Jean Titus                                         2009
Maureen Devaux                                     2008
John Crowley                                       2008
Patricia Charbonnier                               2008
Edward F. Demski                                   2009
Linda Hall                                         2009
Rensselaer Havens                                  2010
Maureen Horan                                      2010

MARBLEHEAD DISABILITIES COMMISSION – Term: 3 Years
Vacant                                             2010
Lloyd Caswell                                      2008
Katie Farrell                                      2008
Mary Levine                                        2009
Maureen McKinnon-Tucker                            2008
Andrea Mountain                                    2010
Patricia Sullivan                                  2010
(Elected Official)                                 2010

EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES COUNCIL – Term: 1 Year
Jason Gilliland– Marblehead Fire Department       2008

FAIR HOUSING COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Paul Crosby, Marblehead Counseling Center          2008
Sarah Drewry                                       2008
Kurt James                                         2008
Joan McIntyre                                      2008
Dirk Isbrandtsen                                   2008
Ann Cohen                                          2008
Don Davies                                         2008
Janet Robinson                                     2008
Bonnie Howard                                      2008
Gordon King                                        2008
Mimi Hollister                                     2008
Vacant – Planning Board Representative             2008




                               128
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



FENCE VIEWERS – Term: 1 Year
Frederick Goddard                                   2008

FINANCE COMMITTEE – Term: 3 Years
William P. Corbett, Jr.                             2009
Christopher Foley                                   2008
David E. Harris, Jr.                                2009
Steven J. Haskell                                   2008
Kathleen E. Leonardson                              2008
Patricia Moore                                      2010
Vacant                                              2009
Vacant                                              2010
Jon P. Jennings                                     2010
Robert Ross – Clerk

FIREWORKS COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Tmothy Green                                        2008

HARBORS & WATERS BOARD – Term: 1 Year
John Doub                                           2008
Gary P. Gregory                                     2008
Jay Michaud                                         2008
William G. Pattison                                 2008
Paul N. Williams                                    2008
Alternates:
                 Kenneth Breen                      2008
                 Eliot Rothwell                     2008
                 Paul Stevens                       2008

HISTORIAN – Term: 1 Year
Elizabeth Hunt                                      2008

HISTORICAL COMMISSION – Term: 3 Years (staggered)
William E. Conly                                    2010
Joyce L. Booth                                      2009
Raymond F. Cole, Jr.                                2009
Paul C. Johnson                                     2008
Nancy Graves                                        2008
Vacant                                              2008
Wayne T. Butler                                     2010




                               129
                 MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




HOBBS MEMORIAL, SELECTMEN’S AGENT – Term: 1 Year
Paul Crosby                                        2008

LOGAN AIRPORT, PREFERENTIAL RUNWAY COMMITTEE –
Vacant                                       2008

MARBLEHEAD CULTURAL COUNCIL – Term 3 Years
Howard Rosenkrantz                                 2008
Ava Lawrence                                       2008
Vacant                                             2010
Vacant                                             2010
Vacant                                             2010
Vacant                                             2010
Sandra Broughton                                   2009
Georgia Murray                                     2009
Jean Hollister                                     2009
Carol Booth                                        2008

MARBLEHEAD FOREVER COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Fraffie Welch                                      2008
Vacant                                             2008
Vacant                                             2008
Vacant                                             2008
Vacant                                             2008

MBTA ADVISORY BOARD – Term: 1 Year
Rick Patoski                                       2008

METROPOLITAN AREA PLANNING COUNCIL – Term: 3 Years
James E. Bishop                                  2010
Rebecca L. Curran, Alternate                     2008

OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISSION– Term: 1 Year
Julia Bantly                                       2008
Susan Bragdon                                      2008
F. Reed Cutting, Jr.                               2008
James M. Patrick                                   2008
Thomas Saltsman                                    2008
Alternates:




                            130
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Karl Renney                                         2008
Suzanne Perney-Niemeyer                             2008

OPEN SPACE COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Bradford N. Freeman                                 2008
Richard Harrison, Conservancy Representative        2008
Diane St. Laurent, Citizen at Large                 2008
Bill Woodfin, Selectmen’s representative            2008
Walt Haug, Conservation Commission Representative   2008
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner                     2008

REGISTRARS OF VOTERS– Term: 3 Years
 Robin Michaud (Town Clerk)                         2010
J. Michael Canniffe                                 2010
Joyce H. Lofmark                                    2009
Donald A. Doliber                                   2008

SCHOLARSHIP COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Audrey Brenner                                      2008
Marla Gearhart                                      2008
Alex Kulevich                                       2008
Julie Rowe                                          2008
Sandi Shuman                                        2008
John Wall                                           2008
Nancy Graves                                        2008
Helaine Hazlett                                     2008
Perry Morton                                        2008

SIGN CULLER – Term 1 Year
Dexter Gillis                                       2008

TAXATION AID COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Patricia C. Roberts                                 2008
Pamela Foye                                         2008
Vacant                                              2008
Patricia Kelly Murray, Treasurer                    2008

TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION – Term: 1 Year
Rabbi Jonas Goldberg                                2008
Helaine Hazlett                                     2008




                                    131
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Ann Marie Hunter                                           2008
Isabel Katzman                                             2008 (14)
Harvey Michaels                                            2008
Jay Morrison                                               2008 (15)
Barbara Schneider                                          2008
John E. Whipple                                            2008

TOWN PHYSICIAN – Term 1 Year
Quadrant Health Strategies                                 2008

TRAFFIC & SAFETY ADVISORY COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
John P. Doane                                               2008
Dexter C. Gillis                                            2008
Edward Principe                                             2008
F. Carlton Siegel                                           2008
Chief Barry C. Dixey – Fire Department – Ex Officio         2008
Chief Robert O. Picariello – Police Department – Ex Officio 2008

ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS – Term: 5 Years
Karen Tenenbaum                                            2010
William R. Moriarty                                        2009
David L. Bennet                                            2011
Alan Lipkind                                               2008
Barbara Shefftz                                            2012
Alternates – Term: 1 year
     Paige Hintlian                                        2008
     Christopher T. Casey                                  2008
     Andrea Papanek                                        2008
     Elizabeth M. Burke-Jacobson                           2008

FORT SEWALL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Judy Anderson                                              2008
Joyce Booth                                                2008
Brenda Arnold                                              2008
Ed Lang                                                    2008
Maureen McKinnon -Tucker                                   2008
Julia Bantly                                               2008
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner                            2008
Dave Rodgers, Recreation and Parks Department              2008
Larry Sands, Glover’s Regiment                             2008




                                 132
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Philip F. Norcross, Citizen at Large             2008

SEAWALL STUDY COMMITTEE – Term: 1 Year
Craig Smith (Conservation Commission)            2008
Harry C. Christensen, Jr. (Board of Selectmen)   2008
Victor A. Wild (Capital Planning Committee)      2008
Anthony M. Sasso, Town Administrator             2008
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner                  2008
Douglas W. Saal, Town Engineer, Ex-Officio       2008
Steven J. Haskell, Finance Committee             2008
Dave Rodgers (Recreation, Park and Forestry)     2008

HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
TEAM
Term: 1 year
Charles P. Cerrutti, Emergency Management Director  2008
Douglas W. Saal, Town Engineer                      2008
Dana E. Snow, Superintendent, Water and Sewer Dept. 2008
Rebecca L. Curran, Town Planner                     2008
William E. Conly, Historical Commission             2008

BOARD OF ABBOT LIBRARY SECOND CENTURY FUND –Term: 1 Year
Thomas A. McNulty                              2008
Judith Eissner                                 2008

TREE WARDEN Term: 3 years
Tom Hamond                                       2009




                                       133
           MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                     Vital Records
                 Births Recorded - 154

January     2                        July        12
February    1                        August      19
March       21                       September   17
April       15                       October     12
May         17                       November    12
June        16                       December    10

             Marriages Recorded - 81

January     1                        July        11
February    1                        August      12
March       3                        September   13
April       5                        October     7
May         11                       November    6
June        7                        December    4

                 Deaths Recorded - 150

January     8                        July        6
February    11                       August      13
March       16                       September   15
April       14                       October     13
May         17                       November    15
June        15                       December    7




                         134
              MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




           Causes of Death 2007 – 150


Acute Abdominal Injury                          1
Acute Cardio-Respiratory Arrest                 2
Acute Intoxication                              2
Acute Respiratory Arrest                        24
Airway Obstruction of Bolus of food             1
Alzheimer’s Dementia                            1
Anoxic Brain Injury                             1
Aspiration                                      1
Aspiration Pneumonia                            2
Atherosclerotic Heart Disease                   25
Atherosclerotic Hypertensive Vascular Disease   1
Blunt Impact of Head and Torso                  1
Carcinomas:
Aden Carcinoma of Colon                         1
Breast                                          2
Bronchogenic                                    1
Colon                                           1
Glioblastoma                                    1
Kidney                                          1
Lung                                            5
Metastatic Cancer of Rectum                     1
Metastatic Esophageal                           1
Metastatic Small Cell Carcinoma of Lung         1
Multiple Myeloma                                1
Ovarian                                         1
Pancreatic                                      1
Parkinson’s Disease                             1
Prostate                                        2
Sarcoma of Retroperitoneal                      1
Cardiac Arrest                                  1
Cardiac Arrhythmia                              2
Cardio-Pulmonary Arrest                         4
Cardiovascular Collapse                         1
Cerebral vascular Accident                      2
Congestive Heart Failure                        5
COPD                                            1




                             135
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



End Stage Dementia                    4
Failure to thrive                     9
Intracerebral Hemorrhage              1
Large Bowel Obstruction               1
Liver Failure                         2
Pending                               2
Primary Ventricular Fibrillation      1
Pulmonary Effusion                    1
Pulmonary Embolism                    1
Pulmonary Fibrosis                    1
Pneumonia                             7
Respiratory Arrest                    6
Ruptured Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm    1
Sepsis                                5
Septicemia                            1
Septic Shock                          2
Stroke                                1
Supra Nuclear Palsy                   1
Thoracic Aortic Dissection            1
Undetermined                          1
Waldenstroms Macroglobulinemia        1




                          136
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                       ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY

The Trustees of the Abbot Library, chaired by Phil Sweeney, presented a request at
Annual Town Meeting for the sum of $281,000 to make significant repairs to the
library building. Fortunately, the voters at Town Meeting approved this and the
request went on to a positive vote for the funds, for which we are very grateful.
Plans are underway for fixing a number of problems such as the heating system,
places between the bricks where the mortar has deteriorated, causing water damage,
etc.

The highlight of the year for Abbot Library was our “Marblehead Reads” program,
held during the month of March, 2007. We offered a variety of events and activities
for all ages, ranging from a children’s book discussion group to an afternoon of sea
shanties. Many organizations collaborated with this project, especially the
Principals Libby Moore of the MVMS and John Ziergiebel of MHS. A committee
chose the book, “In the Heart of the Sea” by Nathaniel Philbrick. Also available
were a teen edition and a children’s book about the same event. The program was
very successful and all who attended them were quite pleased. It was made possible
by a federal grant as administered by the MA Board of Library Commissioners.

Clare Horton, the very successful Chair of the Friends of Abbot Library stepped
down this past year but is still very active in the group. The Library is indebted to
her leadership in making the Friends more visible in the community, sponsoring or
co-sponsoring many events, raising the profile of the book sales, etc. We salute her
tremendous contributions. As always, we are so appreciative of the Friends’
financial support for all of our programs and museum passes along with a wealth of
less visible contributions such as staff development, which are crucial.

As always, we are indebted to the Second Century Fund for the annual gift they
present to the Library. It is used to purchase needed materials in a variety of areas
where we might otherwise be lacking. Ably led by Chairperson Judith Eissner, this
small group has reached their goal of raising a substantial endowment due to the
generosity of some truly wonderful people.

The Trustees and Director are pleased with our newest benefactor, the Oliver
Killam Trust. Monies from this fund will be used for the upkeep of the Children’s
Room at the Library. There is a painting of Mr. Killam on the wall near the main
entrance to the Library.




                                        137
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Everyone in town notices the great work of the Driftwood Garden Club which keeps
our surroundings looking terrific. They are planning some changes for 2008 and
will be working around the various building projects.

Of course, our greatest treasure and our most valuable asset is the wonderful staff.
People work very hard to provide each person with the best service possible. The
smiles at the Main Desk, the Reference Desk and the Children’s Desk are there to
welcome you and to invite you to ask about anything and everything. We aim to
please and we really do enjoy seeing everyone!

Respectfully submitted,

Phil Sweeney, Chairperson
Bonnie Strong, Director

              ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Phillip W. Sweeney, Jr., Chair                             Term expires 2010
Peggy Geist Blass, Vice-Chair & Secretary                  Term expires 2009
Judy S. Gates                                              Term expires 2010
Jean Y. Howe                                               Term expires 2008
Susan L. Indresano                                         Term expires 2009
Robin A. Michaud                                           Term expires 2008


                            ABBOT LIBRARY STAFF

Bonnie J. Strong                                           Director
Ann E. Connolly                                            Assistant Director
Christine Evans                                            Technical Services
Karen Nee                                                  Children’s Librarian
Mary Farrell                                               Youth Librarian
Jonathan Randolph                                          Adult Librarian
Mary Starrett                                              Senior Clerk
Sudha Newman                                               Para-Professional
Catherine Jamieson                                         Library Coordinator/
                                                                Circulation
Kathy Cavalina, Part-Time                                  Program and Volunteer
                                                                Coordinator
Linda Levy                                                 Library Technician




                                       138
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Helen Minayeva                                 Sr. Tech Services Assistant
Ellen Goldstrom, Part-Time                     Sr. Library Assistant
Janet Smith, Part-Time                         Children’s Sr. Library
                                                     Assistant
Susan Yochelson, Part-Time                     Sr. Library Assistant
Carole Brindamour, Temp. Part-Time             Library Assistant
Virginia Symmes, Temp. Part-Time               Library Assistant

                                CUSTODIANS

Robert Jenkins                                 Head Custodian
Bart Sherman, shared with Police Dept.         Custodian

                                     PAGES

Donald Driscoll
Kira Goldman
Andrew Kim
Luidmila Murayeva
Albert Phu
Cassandra Sprague




                                         139
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                         BOARD OF ASSESSORS

The Board of Assessors functions according to State mandated legislation. The
principal duty of the Board is to determine the “fair cash value” of all real and
personal property within the Town of Marblehead on an annual basis.

The assessing staff, under the supervision and review of the Board of Assessors
performs all duties. Our primary goal is to ensure fair and equitable assessments,
administer the statutory exemptions available to the elderly, blind, disabled, and
veterans. Additionally, the department is responsible for issuing motor vehicle
excise based upon the Registry of Motor Vehicles values provide to the assessors
office. The assessors also administer boat excise tax based upon the State formula
and after receiving the required information from the boat owner via the return of
form 2BE, which must be filed annually at the assessor’s office.

Under the quarterly tax billing procedure, the filing deadline for abatements is
February 1, (third quarter tax bill due date). The filing deadline for statutory
exemptions according to Massachusetts General Law is three months from the
mailing of the third quarter tax bill. Tax law and guidelines for exemptions are
constantly changing. We urge all taxpayers who may have questions regarding
abatements or exemption to contact the Assessors Office.

Anne N. McCarthy was elected to a third consecutive 3 year term on the Board of
Assessors.

Assessments for the average single family dwelling decreased 4% to $732,000, and
the median single family assessment decreased 3.6% to $541,000. The average tax
bill increased 3.23% to $6,104, and the median single family tax bill increased
3.63% to $4,511. The classification hearing held on November 14, 2007, resulted in
a single tax rate of $8.34 per thousand of value.

The Board of Assessor’s granted a total of $144,357 of statutory exemptions to 233
qualified seniors, veterans, and blind applicants.


The following is the breakdown of value by class and the respective tax levy as well
as the pertinent data for motor vehicle and boat excise tax.

CLASS                                         VALUATION              TAX LEVY
Residential          95.3934%              $5,350,189,480          $44,620,580.26




                                       140
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Commercial           3.6657%               $205,592,484         $1,714,641.32
Industrial          0.3312%                $18,573,700          $154,904.66
Personal Property   0.6097%                $34,195,980          $284,194.47

TOTAL               100%                  $5,608,551,644       $46,775,320.71


                                 EXCISE TAX

MOTOR VEHICLE                      #BILLS                    TAX ASSESSED

2007 EXCISE                        20,171                      $2,933,862,000

BOAT EXCISE                         2345                       $150,215.00


Respectfully Submitted,

Board of Assessors                            Office Staff
John P. Kelley, Chair                          Virginia T. Palmer, Senior Clerk
Anne N. McCarthy, Secretary                   Leslie T. George, MAA, Sp. Clerk
Richard O. Riess, MAA
Michael A. Tumulty, MAA, Asst. Assessor




                                   141
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                            BOARD OF HEALTH

The Marblehead Board of Health met in formal session on seventeen (17) occasions
including the annual Town Meeting. Meetings were properly and duly posted with
the Town Clerk. BOH Members and staff also attend numerous meetings pertaining
to finance, regionalization, communicable disease, bio-terrorism, tobacco control,
grant application, sanitation code updates, environmental issues, continuing
education, emergency preparedness, as well as other public health related issues of
importance to the Town.

                    MARBLEHEAD.ORG WEBSITE

News and notifications concerning public health, trash and recycling are posted in
timely fashion. This media tool allows the posting of links to sites relating to public
health, emergency planning, solid waste and beach water quality. A subscription
service on Marblehead.org allows people to sign up for email alerts regarding solid
waste, recycling, public health emergencies, as well as other important Town
information.

        COMMUNICABLE DISEASES REPORTED – 2007

Campylobacter                                  4
Chickenpox                                     12
Giardia                                        1
Hepatitis B- Chronic                           8
Hepatitis C-Chronic                            2
Latent TB Infection                            3
Lyme Disease                                   15
Strep Pneumonia                                3
Viral Meningitis                               2

As with all communicable disease reports an extensive follow-up investigation is
conducted to determine the source and possible cause of the illness. All food-borne
illness (Campylobacter, Giardia, Hepatitis A, Salmonella) require public health
response. Lyme disease and Chronic Hepatitis C cases are now reported as line lists.
We are now seeing earlier diagnosis and treatment of Lyme disease thus preventing
long term health problems. With the emergence of new infectious/contagious
diseases and increases in others the Board of Health reminds everyone that
good, frequent hand washing is the first line of defense in preventing the




                                         142
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



spread of a lot of illnesses. Always wash your hands after using the bathroom,
before preparing foods, and between foods to be cooked and foods to be eaten
raw. It should be noted that these are reported cases versus occurrences.

                      VACCINE DISTRIBUTION – 2007

VACCINE                                                   DOSES

Hepatitis B-Pedi                                           40

Diphtheria, Tetanus, Acellular Pertussis (DtaP)           360

Inactivated Polio (1PV)                                   230

Pediarix (DtaP, Hep B, IPV)                               470

Haemophilus Influenza Type b (HIB)                        625

Pneumococcal Conjugate (PCV-7)                            600

Measles, Mumps, and Rubella (MMR)                         260

Menactra (MCV4)                                           480

Tetanus, Reduced Diphtheria, Acellular Pertussis (Tdap)   540

Tetanus and Diphtheria (Adult)                            270

Pneumococcal Polysaccharide (PPV-23Pneumonia)             400

Hepatitis A Pedi                                          290

Rotavirus                                                 190

Quadrivalent Human Papillomavirus (HPV)                   70

Influenza                                                 650

Pre-filled Pedi Flu                                       250




                                       143
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Flumist                                                       200

Rotavirus vaccine is now available for all infants 6-32 weeks of age. Rotavirus is a
gastroenteritis that causes fever, vomiting, diarrhea and dehydration. It affects
almost all children by the age of 5 years, with the most cases occurring between 6-
24 months of age. The State has also added the distribution of Tdap vaccine, HPV
vaccine, and MCV4 vaccine. The State provides Tdap to adolescents 11-12 years of
age. MCV4 is the meningococcal vaccine and is provided to adolescents age 11-12
years. HPV is a vaccine to prevent cervical cancer and is provided for girls age 11-
12 years of age, but only for those children who are VFC eligible.

                       2007 PUBLIC FLU CLINICS

The Marblehead Board of Health held 3 major public clinics and the Public Health
Nurse made 21 home visits to immunize home bound patients. The Marblehead
Board of Health administered 1409 flu shots this year. 596 flu shots were given to
residents age 65 or older.

                   BLOOD PRESSURE SCREENING

BP monitoring is conducted by appointment Monday through Friday from 8:00
A.M. to 12:00 noon at the Board of Health office by appointment only. Additionally
the Public Health Nurse is at the Marblehead COA on most Thursday’s of each
month between 11:00 AM-12:00 noon to conduct a blood pressure clinic.

                            WEST NILE VIRUS

While there were no reported human cases in Marblehead, however, there were
positive test results gathered from mosquito traps set in various locations around
Town by MA Northeast Mosquito Control. Continued surveillance of dead bird
reports is conducted by the Massachusetts Department of Public Health through a
Toll-free West Nile Virus Hotline. Community education to increase awareness of
personal protection measures to reduce the risk of WNV disease and transmission is
emphasized by the Board of Health.

NORTH SHORE-CAPE ANN EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
                 COALITION




                                       144
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



The North Shore-Cape Ann Emergency Preparedness Coalition continues to work to
prepare their communities to be prepared to respond to public health threats and
emergencies, which include terrorism and outbreaks of infectious diseases as well as
emergencies caused by a force of nature. This coalition established in 2004, is a
sub-coalition within Region 3 of the Massachusetts Department of Public Health
Regional Public Emergency Preparedness Coalitions and meets monthly. The
coalition receives funding from a grant provided by CDC and is mandated to attain
certain standards in emergency preparedness. The North Shore-Cape Ann
Emergency Preparedness Coalition has established a website with information for
the public and links to other sites that can provide valuable information to our
residents. To date, the Board of Health has provided MDPH with 24/7 contact
information, submitted a Continuity of Operations Plan, participated in numerous
drills, trainings and conferences, have key personnel trained in NIMS (National
Incident Management System) and ICS (Incident Control System) , updated the All-
Hazards Plan, and have submitted a template of our Special Populations Plan. The
coalition is also continuing the process of establishing a database of medical and
non-medical volunteers through our website and is offering training opportunities
for these volunteers. In the event of an infectious disease epidemic or pandemic, or
a natural disaster volunteers will be greatly needed to assist in mass clinics, shelters
or wherever needed. Volunteers can register on-line and/or by calling the
Marblehead Board of Health. We urge residents to become volunteers. Please log on
to: www.nscalert.org or call the BOH at 781 631-0212 to register as a volunteer and
to learn more about our coalition.

                       INSPECTIONAL SERVICES

All food service and retail food establishments are required, by the MDPH, to be
inspected bi-annually. Additionally, walk-through inspections (a less formal visual
procedure for those establishments the Board has received complaints about, that
are making physical changes, or for any type of problem that may arise during the
year) are conducted at the Board of Health’s discretion.

Beach samples are taken on a weekly basis from May through September. Test
results were consistently within beach testing standards set forth under 105 CMR
Sect. 445.000 throughout the summer for each of the five sites. Public and
semipublic pools are monitored for mandatory on site quality control and proper
management as required by MA 105 CMR 435.000 Minimum Standards for
Swimming Pools.




                                         145
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




         ESTABLISHMENTS REGULARLY INSPECTED

Nursing Homes                                  2
Food Service Establishments                    49
Retail Food Service Establishments             30
Private Clubs                                  8
School Cafeterias                              4
Schools with Satellite Programs                8
Private Schools                                1
Carnivals W/3 Mobile Service Units             2
Ice Cream Trucks                               4
Mobile Food Service Trucks                     0
Hot Dog Push Carts                             1
Slush Push carts and Yogurt Push Carts         2
Year Round Swimming Pools                      2
Seasonal Swimming Pools                        5
Arts Festival Food Fair                        2
Bakeries                                       2
Caterers                                       4
One Day Permits                                3
Therapeutic Massage                            60
Massage Establishments                         32
New Business/Change of Ownership               10
Restaurant Inspections                         160
Re-Inspection Compliance                       20
Food Borne Illness Investigation               0
Fire Incidents Requiring Inspection            0
Day Camp Inspections                           12




                                         146
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                         INSPECTIONS REQUIRED

Water, Beach, Pool, Drain & Stream Samples             95
Asbestos Inquiry, Complaints/Removal Of                7

                                  COMPLAINTS

Food and Retail Service Complaints              6
General Nuisance                                10
Air, Noise, and Odor Complaints                 11
Housing Complaints                              7
Lead Paint Tests                                0
Lead Paint Follow-Up                            0
Exterior Sanding                                6
Radon Gas Inquiry                               0
Oil Spill Incidents                             5

Red Tide Notifications                          0
Court Subpoena                                  1

       NORTH SHORE TOBACCO CONTROL PROGRAM
In accordance with the North Shore Area Boards of Health Collaborative grant
requirements three compliance checks were conducted in FY07. The outcomes of these
checks were as follows:

Date               No. of Establishments Checked:              Rate Achieved

1-29-07            12 Checked with no sales                    100% rate
7-18-07            11 Checked with one sale                    91% rate
12-17-07 12        Checked with one sale                       92% rate

There were two fines assessed for a total of $200.00

In addition to the compliance checks, one educational visit occurred where we provide
merchants with required and additionally helpful signage check permits and inform them
of training opportunities.




                                          147
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Merchant training is conducted quarterly and then as needed or as requested
throughout the year. These trainings are open to all merchants and staff. Moreover,
when there is a request we will tailor trainings for any particular merchant and
conduct them exclusively for the staff or their establishments

                                     HAWC
                  Help for Abused Women and Their Children
                       Services for Marblehead FY 2007

Since 1978, HAWC (Help for Abused Women and their Children) has been the only
agency providing domestic violence prevention and comprehensive services to
women and their children in 23 North Shore cities and towns from Saugus to
Gloucester.

Based in Salem with outreach offices in Gloucester, Ipswich, Beverly and Lynn,
HAWC’s free domestic violence services include emergency shelter, 24-hour
hotline, advocacy in courts and health care settings, support groups, counseling, and
education in schools throughout the North Shore.

Since HAWC began in 1978, the agency has grown tremendously both in the
number of victims served and the number of programs we offer. With the assistance
of approximately 100 volunteers, HAWC provided services to 7,496 victims of
violence, and 5,425 children in the school-based program. All of HAWC’s services
are provided free of charge.

Of the victims served by HAWC in FY 2007, 3935 were from Marblehead:

    •    Our hotline received 24 calls from residents of Marblehead. The hotline
         is staffed by trained volunteers who provide information, advice, referral
         and assistance securing shelter. Many victims calling are in crisis and need
         immediate help and support. HAWC staff is available 24 hours a day to
         support and assist the volunteers and to answer the hotline when there are
         open shifts.

    •    Fifty residents of Marblehead received help and support from HAWC in
         the form of direct services which include individual advocacy and
         counseling, legal or medical advocacy or participation in one of our nine
         weekly support groups.




                                        148
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



    •    319 children and adolescents were educated about bullying and teasing and
         dating violence. Research has shown that 60% of battered women report
         that their first instance of battering occurred in a teenage dating
         relationship. HAWC’s Youth Outreach Program seeks to educate teens
         before they establish patterns of unhealthy relationships that can last a
         lifetime.

HAWC’s educators are always available to conduct workshops and training sessions
on the issue of domestic violence for the community at large. We welcome the
opportunity to speak at community groups, churches, hospitals, civic organizations
or any group that is interested in learning about domestic violence.

        MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES FISCAL YEAR 2007
Now in its 38th year, the Marblehead Counseling Center (MCC) has collaborated
with the Board of Health to provide the Town counseling, education and community
service. These services have afforded people the opportunity to work with highly
trained professionals on personal or community issues and concerns. Therapy is
provided to any resident or town worker regardless of his/her ability to pay a fee.
Over and above the $79,728 provided by the Health Department, MCC provided
$44,934 of free (unreimbursed) counseling services.

During fiscal year 2007, MCC provided direct therapy to over 500 different
individuals from the town with 3,758 hours offered for individual, couple, family
and group counseling. Therapists continued to help seniors in their homes who,
because of infirmities, could not make it to traditional services. Another 120 hours
were spent in outreach to teens and adults of our community in an effort to address
their specific problems. In addition, the Center ran socialization skills groups for all
the fifth graders at the Charter School.

Sometimes, our neighbors are hit hard financial times and families struggle just to
survive. MCC has become the place that people can get connected with resources
that will help them, whether it is paying overdue bills, assistance with housing, or
connections to medical and dental treatment. Throughout the year a large number
of town residents have received these social services from MCC’s social service
aides.

The Counseling Center has also continued to encourage the development of healthy
families in Marblehead. These efforts included classes for parents of pre-school
age, grade school and middle school children. These Parent Enrichment Workshops




                                         149
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



expand parents’ skills by providing them with new, effective techniques in raising
children. A $10,000 grant from a private foundation enabled us to expand these
efforts by offering the Family Harmony Series; its six workshops covered specific
issues that commonly cause stress in the lives of young children and teens.

The Marblehead Counseling Center has always had a very strong commitment to
improving the community of which it is a part. In fiscal year 2007, the organization
gave over 360 hours as a participant in many community committees and task
forces. Another part of this commitment is providing community mediation, which
empowers persons to settle differences and disputes in a productive manner that
avoids court intervention.

MCC will remain a vital part of our community and provide counseling, social
work, educational and community services for years to come.

                   ORGANIC PEST MANAGEMENT

The Board of Health promulgated Organic Pest Management Regulations under the
authority granted under M.G.L. Chapter III, Section 31 providing that Boards of
Health may make reasonable health regulations and under the authority granted to
the Marblehead Board of Health under MA G.L. Chapter III, Section 122 to make
regulations for the public health and safety, relative nuisances and causes of
sickness.

The Board of Health found that it is in the best interest of public health to eliminate
the use of toxic pesticides on Town owned land, ponds, and waterways; to
encourage the reduction and elimination of the use of toxic pesticides on private
property; and to introduce and promote natural, organic cultural and management
practices to prevent and, when necessary, control pest problems on Town owned
land.

The Board of Health encourages residents to become educated in the dangers of
pesticide use and to eliminate the use of toxic pesticides and herbicides on private
property for the safety and well-being of your own families, your pets, your
neighbors, and our environment.

Copies of the Organic Pest Management Regulations are available in the Board of
Health office at the Mary Alley Municipal Building at 7 Widger Road.




                                         150
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                   SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
Historically the Board of Health has brought information regarding solid waste
costs, alternatives, and cost control measures to Town Meeting regardless of their
popularity. It is a constant challenge to address solid waste issues that face the town.
It is a difficult task to address the environmental and increasing cost controls placed
on the town by state and federal agencies.
      • Marblehead generated 10,364 tons of trash in 2007 a decrease of 714 tons.
      • Marblehead recycled a total of 2,754.6 tons of paper, commingled
           material, cardboard, metal, and Swap Shed material out of the waste stream
           realizing diversion savings of $287,421.64
      • 2,340 gallons of waste oil was collected for processing.
      • Two Household Hazardous Waste Days were conducted jointly with the
           Town of Swampscott and collected materials from over 350 households.
 In December 2007 the MA DEP Bureau of Waste Prevention released the recycling
data for every city and town in the Commonwealth.
      • Statewide Marblehead has a recycling rate of 51% and ranks 2nd in the top
           20, 19 have some sort of PAYT.
      • Thirty Three(33) Communities with a population of 20,-30,000
           Marblehead rates 1st (51%) , 6 have some sort of PAYT, and the average
           recycling rate in those communities is 34%.

                         RECYCLE COMMITTEE
The Recycling Committee is a valuable volunteer resource for the Town. The
weekly “Recycling Tips” article in the Reporter takes time and commitment and is
greatly appreciated and well read. Their staffing of a booth at the Farmers Market
selling compost and recycling bins is to be commended. The Committee has taken a
very keen interest in current and future trends and local adherence to recycling in
Marblehead. The Board looks forward to utilizing this group of dedicated residents
as we address the solid waste and recycling challenges and opportunities facing the
Town.

            COMPOSTING AND YARD WASTE DISPOSAL
    2007 organic matter, vegetation, brush, wood waste generation and processing
    figures:
         • Composted material: 18,770 cubic yards = 3128.34 tons.
         • Spring/summer leaves & grass: 12,440 cubic yards = 2,073.34 tons.




                                         151
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



         •    Woodchips (Town Tree Department): 4,800 cubic yards = 800 tons.
         •    Brush: 8,251 cubic yards = 1375.17 tons.

In 2005 the Town submitted an extensive Yard Waste Management Plan to MA
DEP in anticipation of post closure use of the site once the Landfill Remediation is
complete.

The Town continues to work with Agresource Inc. in an effort to formulate a
compost material suitable for garden and lawn construction as well as large scale
restoration projects. The Town realized a small amount of revenue from this
material and will be using it for restoration purposes in areas affected by the landfill
remediation project.


                    OLD LANDFILL REMEDIATION
A comprehensive description of the design and construction phases along with
timely opportunities was presented to the annual town meeting in May 2007. A
subsequent capital exclusion override for $1,010,000. was voted positively by the
Town.
Additional environmental testing was requested by the MA DEP for some abutting
properties as well the need to address infrastructure relocation with other Town
Departments and Commissions. The design of the new Transfer Station has been
awarded to coincide with the remediation project with basic conceptual issues being
addressed at the time of this writing. The Board of Health expects to be before the
annual 2009 Town Meeting to present plans for the complete project.

                                  SWAP SHED
The Swap Shed at the Transfer Station continues to be very popular and more
importantly a very useful means of re-using many different types of household
materials and appliances. The staff of hearty volunteers that operate, organize, and
perform crowd control every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday are to be
commended. The Board wishes to recognize these volunteers and express their
appreciation for their efforts to reduce solid waste tonnage.

In closing, once again the Board of Health commends its office, transfer station, and
collection staff for their adaptability to constant change, dedication, and devotion to
their positions and the Town. As Director of this Department I am very appreciative
of the staff in both the Public Health and Waste Division under the jurisdiction of




                                         152
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



the Board of Health. These are the people that are here working in the rain, bitter
cold, snow, heat, handling the complaints, working extra unpaid hours to provide
the finest municipal service they can. We appreciate that in most all instances these
people work with us and not just for us. The Board wishes to thank other Town
Departments for assistance and cooperation in the form of manpower, equipment,
and other resources. Bi-monthly administrative staff meetings with the Town
Administrator are important and appreciated from a support and cooperative effort
standpoint. The Board also thanks Town Planner Rebecca Curran, she has assisted
the Health Dept. in applying for and administering worthwhile grants of money,
equipment, technical assistance, and Chapter 30B Procurement issues. The Board of
Health and the Town are fortunate to have a willing and able group of volunteers
assisting in all aspects of our operation. The Board of Health thanks all those
volunteers.

HEALTH OFFICE STAFF
Rochelle Bartlett-Ayer, RN, Public Health Nurse
Vacant, Health Inspector
Joan Sherman, Senior Clerk

TRANSFER STATION STAFF
Peter Haskell, Leader Heavy Equipment Operator
Jose’ Fagundes, Heavy Equipment Operator
Michael Louizos, Heavy Equipment Operator
Annette Louizos, Part-time Clerk
Kay Monahan, Special Clerk
Heidi Smith, Part-time Clerk




                                        153
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




RECYCLING COLLECTION STAFF
James Decoste, Heavy Equipment Operator, Collection
Leroy Millett, Heavy Equipment Operator, Collection


Respectfully Submitted,
Carl D. Goodman, B.A., J.D., Chairman
Helaine R. Hazlett, B.S.
David Belf Becker, D.M.D., M.P.H.

Wayne O. Attridge
Director of Public Health




                                    154
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




BUILDING COMMISSIONER & INSPECTIONAL SERVICES

The Inspectional Services Department ensures public safety, health and welfare by
regulating construction through Federal, State and Local Codes and By-Laws.

In 2007 a total of 734 Building Permits were issued including those for 10 new single
family dwellings, of which 6 involved the demolition of existing buildings, and 1 new
commercial building. Work continued on the Marblehead Highlands 40B while the
Oliver Pond 40B project reached completion. Based on the estimated costs of
construction of $38,127,933 this activity produced $469,764 for the General Fund.

There were 783 Electrical Permits and 1365 Plumbing & Gas Fitting Permits which
generated an additional $31,391 in inspectional fees for the General Fund.

The Department also issued 152 Roofing Permits, 33 Sign Permits and 3 Stove
Permits, which produced an additional $5700 for the General Fund.

The Building Department, in conjunction with the Fire Prevention Office, conducted
71 annual inspections of public and private schools, churches and temples, day care
centers, food service establishments, nursing homes, and private clubs. Fees for
annual inspections produced $4260 for the General Fund.

All of us in the department would like to express appreciation to Local Inspector J.
Alan Hezekiah for his fine service to the town and wish him all the best in his future
endeavors. Additionally we would like to extend our deepest sympathy to the family
of David P. Hatch who regrettably passed away in May and express our appreciation
for his many years of service to the Town of Marblehead.

Estimated Cost of Construction activity for the past decade in millions of dollars
 1998 1999 2000 2001 2001 2003 2004 2005 2006                                 2007
 19.7    17.8 23.1       22.6    24.2     23.4     39.2     43.4     33.3     38.1




                                         155
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Respectfully submitted;

Robert S. Ives, Jr., Building Commissioner
Chris G. Butler, Local Inspector
William R. Doane, Local Inspector
Ronald J. Marks, Wire Inspector
Eric F. S. Chisholm, Assistant Wire Inspector
Domingos Furtado, Plumbing & Gas Inspector
Peter McCarriston, Assistant Plumbing & Gas Inspector
Mary A. Allain, Special Clerk
Ellen Vaughn, Data Entry Clerk
Peter Dorney, Public Buildings
Steve Ware, Public Buildings
Barbara Paine, COA volunteer




                                      156
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




 CABLE TELEVISION OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE REPORT
The Cable Television Oversight Committee spent the beginning of 2007 dealing
mostly with issues of license compliance, handling complaints, and overseeing
operation of the local studio.

In June, three years before their license is set to expire, Comcast notified the town
that they will begin the process leading to renegotiations and renewal.

The committee hired outside counsel, and began the state mandated ascertainment
process. In response to queries, Verizon met with and notified the town that they
would be seeking a license to carry video signals and would begin constructing fiber
optic cable. Verizon’s cable venture, FIOS should be ready to offer competition to
Comcast, in a year. The Selectmen voted to proceed with Verizon’s request to offer
residents of Marblehead a competitive cable television service. Thus the
groundwork was laid in 2007 for ascertainment of the town’s needs for cable. This
will lead to negotiations between the town and Verizon, and then with Comcast,
with a goal of licensing both to service the cable needs of residents of Marblehead.

Respectfully submitted,

Paul Rabin, Chairman
Peter Lazarus
Nancy Marrs
Alan G. Raymond
David C. Keniston




                                        157
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                     CEMETERY DEPARTMENT

The Marblehead Cemetery Department respectfully submits our Annual Report for
the Calendar year ending December 31, 2007.

The Board of Commissioners has three members who are elected to three-year,
staggered terms. The Commission sets policy, establishes regulations and oversees
the cemetery budget. The Cemetery Department is administered by a
Superintendent appointed by the Commissioners, who has jurisdiction over all
Town Cemeteries.

The Cemetery Department is responsible for the complete maintenance of
Waterside Cemetery, as well as, Harbor View Cemetery. The Recreation and Parks
Department is responsible for the cutting and trimming of the grass at Old Burial
Hill, Harris Street, and Green Street Cemeteries. The Cemetery Department takes
care of any other maintenance that is needed at these historic cemeteries.

For the fiscal year 2007 the sum of $255,134.57 was expended on salaries and
wages. The sum of $20,286.83 was spent on maintenance expenses. To defray the
cost of these expenditures the sum of $18,550.00 came from the Perpetual Care
Fund and $48,000.00 from the Sale of Lots Fund.

An additional sum of $1795.00 was taken from the Sale of Lots Fund to continue
the annual maintenance and upgrade of the cemetery computer program. The sum
of $14638.50 was also taken from the Sale of Lots Fund for the purchase of two
new ride on mowers. The total amount contributed from the Sale of Lots Fund for
the fiscal year 2007 was $64,443.50.

The Cemetery Department turned over to the Town Treasurer for the General Fund
the sum of $ 58,115.00 received from charges and fees in fiscal 2007:

      Grave Fees                                              $ 44,450.00
      Chapel Fees                                                  300.00
      Foundation and Inscriptions Fees                          13,065.00
      Annual Care Receipts                                           0.00
      Misc. Vault Fees                                             300.00
                                                              $ 58,115.00




                                      158
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



This Department keeps abreast with a survey of Commonwealth Communities and
Private Cemeteries as to the fees that are charged and then makes adjustments in
fees accordingly.

The sum of $27,025.00 was received from the sale of lots and the sum of
$29,475.00 was received from bequests to the Perpetual Care Fund. The sum of
$40.00 was received from bequests to the Eternal Flame Fund.

There were no Gravestone Rubbing Permits issued this year. These permits cost
$10.00 and are used only at the Old Burial Hill. The total income receipts for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 2007 was $ 118,615.00.

The total number of interments for the Calendar year was 134 of which 78 were
cremations.

The Cemetery Department would like to thank the Gerry #5 for it’s donation of
paying yearly for the eternal flame. We would also like to thank the VFW for the
help in maintaining the pool where the services for Memorial Day are held. The
VFW also donated for the repairs and painting of the Veterans lot pavilion, as well
as purchasing flag holders for the Veterans stones.

Our thanks to Carl Siegel for building a trailer for our department needs.

Our thoughts go out to the family of Benjamin A. Woodfin, past Superintendent and
Commissioner.

During the year 2007, the Department employed Frank James as mechanic, Bret
Gifford as heavy equipment operator, William Stanton and Brian Ware as laborers,
and Catherine Kobialka as office manager. Our Cemetery Board of Commissioners
consisted of, Dexter C. Gillis as Chairman, Rose A. McCarthy as clerk, and
Richard F. Colletti.


Respectfully submitted
William H. James
Superintendent




                                        159
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                   CONSERVATION COMMISSION

This report is for Calendar Year 2007. The purpose of the Marblehead Conservation
Commission is twofold. First, to implement the safeguards specified in the state
Wetlands Protection Act, the state Stormwater Management Policy and the
Marblehead Wetlands Protection Bylaw in order to help preserve and protect the
wetlands and water resources in our Town. Second, to maintain and protect the
conservation lands held in trust for all residents of our Town. Of the six
communities adjacent to Salem Sound, Marblehead and Salem have the highest
density of population, with corresponding pressures on our open space and water
resources. The quality of life in Marblehead and its attractiveness is in part
dependent on these resources and we urge all Marblehead residents to join in our
efforts to preserve and protect them.

The Commission held regular meetings and public hearings throughout the year
2007. We continued to assist residents in their construction projects while guiding
them in their endeavors to protect the wetland resources potentially affected by their
construction. A major ongoing effort of the Commission is the management and
mitigation of pollution caused by storm water runoff. This polluting runoff comes
from streets, parking lots, driveways and lawns. Lawn chemicals, oil and coolant
leaks from vehicles, animal waste, paints disposed of in catch basins (storms drains
in our streets) - all these pollutants/nutrients eventually end up in our streams and
ocean. The effort to mitigate this pollution will require a long term change in the
thinking and actions on the part of the general public and in our approach to public
infrastructure. The Marblehead Water & Sewer Department already follows the
guidelines established by the state to mitigate stormwater pollution runoff into our
ocean waters.

The Commission initiated a study program during 2007 to evaluate the conditions of
our ponds since they are all in the process of filling in with vegetation. This is a
natural process, especially with shallow ponds, and is caused or accelerated, in part,
by the inflow of chemicals and fertilizers from abutting lawns. Regrettably, the
program was stopped but we hope to resurrect it in 2008.

Marblehead has exhausted (read developed) more than 95% of its buildable land.
With all the roofs, driveways, streets, parking areas and other impervious surfaces
we have built ourselves into one huge catch basin. This has exacerbated our drain
problems. All those little open fields, land depressions and pocket wetlands where
storm water used to be able to collect and gently seep into the ground are, for the
most part, gone.




                                        160
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Again this year, we wish to express our gratitude to the Marblehead Conservancy
for its continuing efforts to restore walking paths in our conservation lands and for
its ongoing program to remove invasive plant species, which are strangling native
vegetation in the conservation lands. Since your Conservation Commission has no
budget or staff for managing the conservation lands, the ongoing efforts of the
Conservancy to preserve and protect these very valuable resources are crucial to the
health of these areas.

Please visit us on the Town web site, www.marblehead.org, to find information on
our meeting schedules, help with filing permit applications and accessing the
minutes of our meetings.

Respectfully submitted,
Marblehead Conservation Commission

Walter Haug, Chairman
Betsy Rickards, Member
Frederick Sullivan, Member
Mark A. Klopfer, Member
Craig A. Smith, Member




                                        161
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                           COUNCIL ON AGING

The Council on Aging respectfully submits its annual report for the year ending
December 31, 2007.

The COA has continued an initiative in emergency planning for elders, in
cooperation with the Board of Health and public safety including a database of
those older residents who might need assistance in an emergency. The Men’s Group
continues to plan events designed to attract more men to use the programs and
services of the senior center. Speakers this year included Bob Lobel, sports editor of
WBZ TV and Anthony Silva, business editor of WBZ.

The Council on Aging provided programs and services to 3,118 seniors (age 60 or
more) and 1,931 non-seniors (family members and caregivers) during the past year.
2007 COA programs and services designed to keep elders independent, remain
healthy and stay connected with the community included:

Health/Wellness Screenings and Services: 525 health screenings and weekly
wellness clinics by the Public Health Nurse and the VNA were provided. The Board
of Health held one flu clinic at the Center that served more than 500 individuals.
Weekly sessions of chair massage were available at the center and a meditation
class was initiated.

Transportation: 9,567 rides were provided to 136 senior citizens to medical
appointments, the senior center, shopping, nursing home visits, volunteer positions
and on errands. Another 136 rides were provided to 6 individuals under the age of
60 and disabled.

Nutrition: 17,592 home delivered meals were provided to 119 home bound
individuals and 2,532 meals were provided to 260 seniors at the center. Home
bound individuals were treated to “The Lazy, Hazy Days of Summer” by North
Shore Elder Services which included a lobster roll lunch and ice cream sundaes
delivered by volunteers. The Gerry #5 provided a fish lunch at the annual picnic.

Education: 291 individuals took advantage of the many educational offerings at
the senior center including presentations on finances, reverse mortgages, art history,
acupuncture, emergency preparedness, Maintain Your Brain, antiques appraisal,
elder law, health plan options, recycling and Alzheimer’s disease. 46 seniors
received computer training.




                                        162
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Fitness and Exercise: 440 older adults participated in fitness and exercise classes
that included weight training, yoga, physical therapy, osteo prevention, stretching,
strength & stretch, tai chi, better balance and Danskinetics.

Recreation and Arts/Crafts Activities: 946 sessions of bridge, Mah Jongg,
cribbage, bingo, oil painting, golf, drawing, knitting, quilting, crafts, chorus, line
dance, country line dance, tap dance, book discussion, Sudoku, watercolor painting,
wood carving and art history attracted 818 individuals.

Travel Opportunities: The COA sponsored 14 day and overnight trips for 237
seniors. Destinations included the Albuquerque Balloon Festival, Canadian Rockies
by rail, the Tall Ships, the Cliff House, Mt. Washington and Foxwoods.

Social Events: Social events included the annual picnic at the Gerry #5, a Yankee
Swap, and monthly luncheons with entertainment to celebrate the holidays and
seasons. Special events were held for Senior Center Week.

Safety: “Grab and Go” bags, donated by the town’s two Rotary Clubs, to be used in
the event of an emergency evacuation were given to all of the seniors residing in
public housing along with a list of suggested items to include. The town’s “Are You
Okay?” system was finally operational and in use as a daily telephone call to check
on the well being of enrolled seniors. A paper shredder, donated by the National
Grand Bank, is made available weekly for seniors to use to avoid identity theft. The
COA continues to sponsor, along with the Essex County Sheriff’s Department and
the Marblehead Police Department, the Marblehead TRIAD. The group sponsored
free photo IDs, the Yellow Dot Program, the File of Life program, and the 911 Cell
Phone loan program. TRIAD meets monthly at the center.

Health Insurance Counseling: The COA has two trained SHINE (Serving the
Health Insurance Needs of Elders) counselors – one staff and one volunteer- to
assist senior citizens with questions and concerns about their health insurance
coverage. 81 seniors were served.

Property Tax Work Off Program: Administered by the COA, this program
assisted 22 seniors who volunteered their services to the town in exchange for up to
$750 credit on their real estate tax bills.

Outreach: The COA hosted the Senior Expo, “Active Life Choices” to celebrate
Senior Center Week with 300 attendees. Confidential Care, Sable Hearing Aids and
Coastal Care sponsored the event to provide information on services, products and




                                        163
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



programs of interest to elders. Outreach staff contacted 75 individuals to acquaint
them with COA programs and services. Referrals of seniors who may need
assistance are received from the police and fire departments and other agencies. In
addition, more than 3,000 referrals were made to other agencies such as North
Shore Elder Services, the Marblehead Counseling Center and the fuel assistance
program. Farmers Market coupons were distributed to 50 individuals.

Information and Referral: More than 2,800 seniors and 1,900 non-seniors
contacted the COA for information and more than 3,000 referrals were made to
other agencies. 3,000 copies of the monthly newsletter, The Old Marblehead Cod,
were distributed monthly. The COA website was moved to the town website.

Volunteer Opportunities: 121 volunteers provided 4,881 hours of service to the
COA in a variety of roles including Board members, lunch servers, activity leaders,
and instructors. Pru Garniss was presented with the COA Volunteer of the Year
award at the annual picnic for her many hours spent with the newsletter distribution,
TRIAD program, luncheons and Friends activities.

Intergenerational Events: A pen pal program with the fifth grade students at the
Village Middle School culminated with an ice cream social at the center. A group of
seniors learned the basics of computers from a high school student volunteer at the
high school computer lab. Student instructor Ben Mervis received the Rotary Club
of Marblehead Harbor’s “Harbor Hero” award for his work with this program.

Mental Health: The COA was awarded a Service Incentive Grant of $4506 from
Elder Affairs to develop, with the Marblehead Counseling Center, a trained
volunteer visitor program to supplement MCC’s Save Our Seniors mental health
program. Six volunteers were selected and trained.

The Town of Marblehead appropriated $159,351 for FY 08 for the COA. In
addition, the COA was awarded a Title IIIC federal grant of $18,759 for its nutrition
programs and a Title IIIB federal grant of $6,079 for its outreach program by North
Shore Elder Services for the period 10/1/07-9/20/08. The Marblehead COA was
awarded a state Formula Grant for FY 08 in the amount of $25,736. The COA also
receives a monthly donation from the Marblehead Female Humane Society to fund
the part-time use of the second van and its driver for the transportation program. A
local Cultural Council grant was awarded to the COA to fund an art history lecture
series for seniors. The Marblehead Veterans Middle School held a talent show and
donated the $3000 proceeds to the COA for its programs. The COA depends on
donations and the Friends of the COA for additional funding.




                                        164
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




The staff of the Council on Aging is to be commended for their commitment to
serving the senior residents of Marblehead:
         Director…………………………Patricia C. Roberts
         Activities Director………………Maxine Stromberg
         Senior Day Center Coordinator…Jan DePaolo
         Outreach Worker………………..Audrey Connolly
         Site Manager……………………June Reed
         Van Chauffeurs…………………Ron Birchmore, Glover Preble
         MOW Drivers………….Darlene James, Virginia Power, Diane LeBoeuf
         Clerk……………………………Carol Easthope

Respectfully submitted,
 Pat Charbonnier, Chairman       Ed Bell                John Crowley
 Ed Demski                       Maureen Devaux         Linda Hall
 Rensselaer Havens               Maureen Horan          Jean Titus




                                   165
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

The Marblehead Department of Public Works is pleased to submit its report for the
calendar year 2007.

Over the past year the Department employees have been very busy performing the
necessary maintenance to provide for clean and safe public ways throughout town.
Some of the services provided include: pothole repair and patching, trench repairs,
sidewalk rebuilding and maintenance, trimming of tree roots, street sweeping, street
sign maintenance and installation, street resurfacing, snow removal and street
painting.

Working with the State Chapter 90 funds we were able to resurface many streets
which include: Treat Rd., Phillips St., Pierce St., Smith St., Devereux St.,
Humphrey St., Brookhouse Drive, Flint St., Maple St., Old Salem Rd., and Vine
Street. We also resurfaced part of the Beach St., Ocean Avenue, Atlantic Avenue,
Harbor Avenue, and Beacon Street. We recognize the inconvenience caused by
some of this work and are grateful to the residents for their tolerance during these
activities.

This past winter season was great news in that there was very little snow to contend
with, however, December of 2007provided us with over 30” of snow plus icing
issues. This has left us with a deficit in the snow removal budget. We hope the rest
of the winter will be easier on the finances.

There was a five-day ‘Nor’easter in April which required a lot of cleanup and work
on seawalls and fences at Fort Sewall, Grace Oliver’s Beach and Spray Avenue.
Additional work included removal of Christmas trees, working with the Cemetery
Department before Memorial Day, and cleaning and grading the Devereux Beach
parking lots and the Causeway.

We wish to recognize two recent retirees from the DPW. Director, Thomas Murray
retired at the end of March. He handed over a well managed Department with a
devoted group of employees. In October, Stephen Andrews retired after many years
with the Town as well. We wish them both many years of Happy and Healthy
retirement.

As always the Department wishes to thank all the town employees and their
department heads for their assistance in accomplishing the various tasks at hand.




                                       166
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



A special “Thank you” to Tom, Sue and Darby for making my first year in this
position an easy one.

Employee                                        Occupation

David, “Darby” Donahue                          Assistant Director
Susan Hogan                                     Senior Clerk
Robert Nauss                                    Mechanic
William Montgomery                              Mechanic
Christopher Phillips                            Mechanic
Arthur Graves                                   Working Foreman
Stephen Magrane                                 Working Foreman
James Barry                                     Heavy Equipment Operator
Robert Delisle, Jr.                             Heavy Equipment Operator
Robert Mace                                     Heavy Equipment Operator
Frank Monahan, Jr.                              Heavy Equipment Operator
Robert Pollard                                  Heavy Equipment Operator
Robert Titus                                    Heavy Equipment Operator

Respectfully submitted,



Dana E. Snow
Director of Public Works
Supt. of Water & Sewer




                                   167
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                      ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT

During calendar year 2007 the Engineering Department provided municipal engineering
services to the Board of Selectmen and other town boards, commissions and departments.
Services such as street line locations, assessor map revisions, review of plans submitted to
the Planning Board under subdivision control and/or site plan review, administration and
review of submittals to the Conservation Commission under the Wetlands Protection Act
and the Marblehead Wetlands Protection Bylaw, and administration of the Zoning Board
of Appeals special permit process were provided. The Department also operated and
maintained the Town’s Geographic Information System (GIS) during the year.

The 2007 annual town meeting approved funding in the amount of $8,700,000.00 for the
construction of the Ocean Avenue Causeway Seawall Project subject to a Proposition 2.5
debt exclusion override vote which was held in June 2007. This debt exclusion override
vote passed allowing the seawall project to go out to bids. Bids were received on August
31, 2007 resulting in a contract for the construction of the seawall being awarded to the
second lowest bidder, Pihl-RDA, LLC of Quincy, Massachusetts, in the amount of
$6,365,524.00. A total of eighteen bids were received ranging in price from
$6,289,025.00 to $10,473,750.00. The lowest bidder submitted a defective bid and was
disqualified resulting in the contract being awarded to the second lowest bidder. The firm
of Vine Associates, Inc. of Hingham, Massachusetts was hired to oversee the construction
process and act as clerk-of-the-works for the project. The Vine Associates contract has a
value of $139,600.00. Also the amount of $50,000.00 has been set aside for any
necessary consultation with the seawall design engineer, Pare Corporation of Lincoln,
Rhode Island, that may be required. Construction on the project started in October 2007
and is anticipated to be finished by July 2008.

Throughout 2007, the Engineering Department provided street line information and other
relevant surveying information to citizens, private engineers and surveyors upon request;
provided copies of assessors maps, zoning maps and street maps to the general public,
and provided flood insurance rate map determinations and other information relative to
properties located within flood hazard areas to individuals, realtors, insurance agents and
other interested parties. The Department also provided maps of abutters and abutters to
abutters within 300 feet of a subject property for Zoning Board of Appeals hearings,
Planning Board Site Plan Review hearings and Conservation Commission hearings.

During 2007, the Department continued to provide administrative, clerical, record
keeping and budgetary support to the Conservation Commission, Planning Board and
Zoning Board of Appeals.




                                           168
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Department personnel consist of Douglas W. Saal, Town Engineer and Andrea H. Flaxer,
Special Clerk.

Respectfully submitted,

Douglas W. Saal, P.E.
Town Engineer




                                       169
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                          FINANCIAL SERVICES

The Financial Services Department is responsible for the Town’s financial
functions, including accounting, payroll, revenue collection, budgeting, capital
financing and retirement management. The Financial Services Department is
overseen by the Town's Finance Director. The Finance Director also serves as the
Town Accountant and the Data Processing Coordinator.

Within Financial Services, the Accounting office is responsible for the audit and
approval of all Town expenditures and preparation of various accounting and
financial reports required by the State’s Department of Revenue. The Revenue
office is responsible for distribution of payroll and vendor checks and collection of
taxes and fees owed to the Town. Both the Treasurer and the Collector functions
are performed by this office. The Payroll Office performs all payroll functions and
administers various employee fringe benefits, including health insurance.

The department publishes a separate Comprehensive Annual Financial Report
(CAFR) for the Town on a fiscal year basis (July 1 to June 30) each year. A Copy
of the latest CAFR is available by contacting the Finance Director’s Office.

Among the more important accomplishments of the Financial Services department
during 2007 were:

    •    Received for the third consecutive year the Certificate of Achievement for
         Excellence in Financial Reporting from the Government Finance Officers
         Association.     This award is only given to government units whose
         comprehensive annual financial reports (CAFRs) achieve the highest
         standards in government accounting and financial reporting. Marblehead
         is one of only 20 Massachusetts communities to receive this award.

    •    Completed the annual open enrollment              process   in   May     for
         employee/retiree health insurance.

    •    Continued the management of a Wellness Campaign for employees and
         retirees covered by the various Blue Cross Blue Shield plan options offered
         by the Town.

    •    Managed the Town’s Official Website, which commenced operation in
         January of 2006. This work includes managing the content of the website
         to ensure completeness and accuracy, implementation of new website




                                        170
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



        features, and assisting other town departments with their website content.
        In 2007, the website continued to be enhanced with the addition of an
        email alert feature that allows residents to register their email address on
        the website and sign-up for various alerts from various town departments.
        Also in 2007, the website added the ability to access the Town’s GIS data.

    •   Expanded the on-line payment option available for taxpayers to use in the
        payment of their Real Estate and Personal Property taxes to also include
        Motor Vehicle and Boat Excise Taxes.

    •   Converted the Police and Fire department’s email service to the town’s
        network.

    •   Replaced, upgraded, and modernized the software used to account for all of
        the Town’s accounting and payroll activities. Installation of the new
        software began in the spring of 2007 and is scheduled to be completed by
        the end of Fiscal Year 2008. The payroll system being replaced is
        approximately 30 years old and the accounting software being replaced is
        25 years old.

Financial Services Department Staff

John J. McGinn            Finance Director/Town Accountant
Robert Ross               Assistant Director – Accounting
Patricia Kelly Murray     Treasurer/Tax Collector
Barbara Kiernan           Payroll Administrator
Connie Ross               Assistant Revenue Officer
Paul Jalbert              Accounting & Website Assistant
Dmitriy Vaydman           Accounting Assistant
Matthew Barrett           Retirement Administrator
Kathy Harvey              Administrative Clerk – Payroll Office
Dianne Rodgers            Senior Clerk – Revenue Office
Deb Christensen           Senior Clerk – Revenue Office




                                       171
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                            FIRE DEPARTMENT
The Marblehead Fire Department is pleased to submit to the citizens of Marblehead
our Annual Report for the period ending December 31, 2007.
The Department responded to a total of 2,378 incidents in 2007. Rescue and
emergency medical responses accounted for 50% of all incidents. The Department
is licensed by the Office of Emergency Medical Services to operate as an
ambulance service at the basic level in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Cardiac defibrillators are carried on each piece of apparatus with all firefighters and
officers certified in cardiac defibrillation and we currently have 33 firefighters
trained as Emergency Medical Technicians (EMTs) and 1 trained as a Paramedic.
The following personnel changes were made in 2007. Captain Willis Iannarelli
retired after serving the town for 29 years and Firefighter John Hinch retired after
28 years of service. Captain Kyle Hood transferred to the Cambridge Fire
Department, Firefighter Robert Better transferred to the Chelsea Fire Department
and Firefighter Ronald Petrucci resigned from the department. I would like to thank
each of them for their years of dedicated service to this department and to the Town
of Marblehead. The following appointments and promotions were made over the
past year as a result of those retirements and resignations. Adam Hatfield
transferred from the Nahant Fire Department to this department as a Permanent
Full-Time Firefighter. James Horgan, Matthew Tina and Eric Ridge were appointed
Permanent Full-Time Firefighters. Firefighters Scott Murray and Charles Cerrutti
were promoted to Permanent Lieutenants; Lieutenant Elizabeth Wilson was
promoted to Provisional Captain, and Provisional Captain Michael Porter was
promoted to Permanent Captain. I would like to congratulate each of these
department members for their appointments and promotions.
Firefighter Matthew Tina’s National Guard Unit was activated in June for
approximately one year in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. On behalf of the
department, I would like to thank Matt for his service to our country and we await
his safe return home.
We were saddened by the death of Firefighter John Hinch on May 19, 2007. Jack
was appointed as a firefighter in 1978 and served on the department until his
retirement on January 6, 2007. We are very grateful for Jack’s many years of
service to the Town of Marblehead.
The Department applied for and received a grant of $55,430 from the Department of
Homeland Security 2007 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The grant funds




                                         172
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



will be used to purchase new portable radios for our firefighters. New radios with
the latest technology will enhance our communications and, as a result firefighter
safety. This is the fourth federal grant that the department has received through this
program in the past five years totaling over $250,000.
The Marblehead Local Emergency Planning Committee (LEPC) and the Board of
Selectmen previously voted to join a Regional LEPC with several surrounding
communities. As a result, the town is currently an active member of the Southern
Essex Emergency Planning Committee. The purpose of an LEPC is to enhance the
capabilities of a community to prepare for, respond to, and recover from hazardous
materials emergencies and we feel that a regional approach is the most effective
way to accomplish this goal.
We continue to benefit from the Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-Off Program
sponsored by the Council on Aging. This program has been extremely valuable to
this Department and the work performed by these volunteers is truly appreciated.
The Department wishes to offer our thanks to all other departments for their help
over this past year and to the citizens of the Town for their support and cooperation.
I would like to commend all Department members and dispatchers for their
dedication and professionalism, and express my sincere gratitude for the excellent
job that they do on a daily basis.

Respectfully submitted,

Barry C. Dixey
Chief of Department




                                        173
              MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                           INCIDENTS

      Structure/Building Fires                           33
      Vehicle/Boat Fires                                  3
      Other Fires                                        32
      Overpressure Rupture Explosions                     1
      Rescue/Emergency Medical Responses           1179
      Hazmat Responses                                   91
      Other Hazardous Conditions                     125
      Severe Weather                                      3
      Bomb Scares                                         2
      Mutual Aid                                         25
      Service Calls                                  331
      Good Intent Calls                              151
      Alarm System Malfunctions                      201
      Unintentional Alarm System Trips               176
      Malicious False Calls                               3
      Other False Alarms                                 22
      TOTAL                                        2378


                        APPARATUS
Engine 1       2006 -- 1500 G.P.M. Pierce Pumper
Engine 2       1998 -- 1500 G.P.M. Seagrave Pumper
Engine 3       1989 -- 1250 G.P.M. Mack Pumper
Ladder 1       1997 -- 75 Ft. KME Aerial Ladder-Quint
C1             2006 -- Ford Explorer (Chief's Vehicle)
C2             1997 -- Ford Explorer (Fire Prevention Vehicle)




                              174
                   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




   C3                2002 -- Ford F250 Pickup Truck
   Rescue Boat       2001 -- 14 Ft. Zodiac with Outboard
   Rescue Boat       1966 -- 13 Ft. Aluminum Boat

                   FIRE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL
APPOINTMENTS
Firefighter Adam Hatfield (Transfer from Nahant)      April 12, 2007
Firefighter James Horgan                              April 29, 2007
Firefighter Matthew Tina                              April 29, 2007
Firefighter Eric Ridge                           September 23, 2007

PROMOTIONS
Provisional Captain Michael Porter to Captain                 January 7, 2007
Firefighter Scott Murray to Lieutenant                        January 7, 2007
Firefighter Charles Cerrutti to Lieutenant                    March 11, 2007
Lieutenant Elizabeth Wilson to Provisional Captain            March 15, 2007

RETIREMENTS
Firefighter John Hinch                                        January 6, 2007
Captain Willis Iannarelli                                    February 1, 2007

RESIGNATONS
Captain Kyle Hood (Transferred to Cambridge)                 January 21, 2007
Firefighter Ronald Petrucci, Jr.                             February 5, 2007
Firefighter Robert Better (Transferred to Chelsea)         December 29, 2007

                     DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL

                           CHIEF
                       Barry C. Dixey

              FIRE PREVENTION CAPTAIN
                    Michael A. Porter

                        CAPTAINS




                                  175
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



   Richard H. Bartlett              Jason R. Gilliland
   Walter F. Conrad, Jr.            Elizabeth A. Wilson (Provisional)
                           LIEUTENANTS
   Charles P. Cerrutti           Scott R. Murray
   Joseph W. Jurasek             Daniel A. Rice
                        FIREFIGHTERS
   Mark P. Barcamonte          John Lequin, Jr.
   A
   Arthur H. Boardway          Gregory T. Lydon
   Ronald N. Borden            Scott T. Martin
   Mark S. Borowski            Gregg M. McLaughlin
   Michael L. Church           Frank T. Monahan
   Richard C. Cutting          Charles W. Morgan
   Rick R. DiGiammarino        Thomas G. Rice
   Timothy J. Doane            Eric M. Ridge
   Mark F. Fader               Matthew J. Serratore
   Jeffrey K. Greenberg        Brendan J. Sheehan
   Adam J. Hatfield            Charles W. Sprague
   Martin T. Hines             Eric Z. Thibodeau
   James M. Horgan             Joseph M. Thibodeau
   Douglas B. Knowles          Matthew J. Tina
   Karl P. Lemieux             John G. Tobey
                            Paul A. Watts

ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK                DEPARTMENT CHAPLAIN
  Mary E. Levine                    Father Joe Foster

                      FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU

“So often, communities and the Media only recognize the men and woman of the
fire service when they respond to fires and other emergencies. One of the greatest
accomplishments of America’s fire service goes mostly unnoticed by the citizens of
this nation. That accomplishment is those fires that are prevented. A fire that never
starts can never harm or take the lives of Americans, or firefighters.”
-R. David Paulson, Director, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)




                                        176
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




The main objective of the Marblehead Fire Prevention Bureau is the protection of
life and property through the prevention of fire. This is accomplished by the
elimination of hazards through effective code enforcement and public education of
fire and life safety principles.

The Fire Prevention Officer works in conjunction with the Building Department to
ensure that new construction and any renovations of existing structures meet the
minimum fire safety requirements. They also perform annual inspections of every
establishment that holds a license to serve alcohol.

Company Inspections ~ In-service fire companies made approximately 650 fire and
life safety inspections during 2007. These inspections included public buildings,
offices, mercantile buildings and multi-family structures with three or more units.
This accomplishes several things; the fire crews become familiar with the building
layout and they can reduce the loss of life and property by identifying fire and life
safety violations. Any violations found were ordered corrected.

The Fire Department hosted its annual Fire Prevention Open House during the
national fire prevention week in October. This year, once again, proved a huge
success. We were able to use the Department of Fire Services new fire
sprinkler/safe house trailer. This provided live fire demonstrations to show the
effectiveness of a home sprinkler system and children and parents alike were taught
fire safety lessons. Other parking lot props included a stove on which live fires were
ignited in a pan to demonstrate the proper way to extinguish a grease fire. Thank
you to all the firefighters that assisted with this worthwhile annual event.


2007 Results by the numbers:

 977    General inspections of property and buildings
  37    Complaints investigated and conditions corrected
  68    Inspection follow ups
   5    Blasting complaints
 117    Sets of plans reviewed
 285    Residential sale of property inspections
 249    Miscellaneous calls made by the Fire Prevention Officer, which included
        fire drills, development of fire and life safety plans, evacuation plans,
        lectures on fire safety, inspector meetings and hands on demonstrations




                                        177
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




THE FOLLOWING PERMITS WERE ISSUED BY THIS BUREAU:

           Fire Alarm Boxes                                         37
              Fire Reports                                           1
              Fuel Permit                                            2
               Oil Burner                                           61
            Tank Removal                                           149
             Tank Storage                                          100
                Blasting                                             4
                L.P. Gas                                            25
               Dumpster                                            113
               Sprinkler                                            26
         Welding and Cutting                                         7
          Flammable Storage                                          0
                  Tent                                               2
          Tank Truck Storage                                         0
              Demolition                                             5
          Smokeless Powder                                           0
             Black Powder                                            0
                        SMOKE DETECTORS
      Residential Sale of Property                                 283
     Residential New Construction                                    7
         Remodel Residential                                       128
        Remodel Commercial                                          25
           Commercial New                                            0
         TOTAL PERMITS                                             973


The Fire Prevention Officer attends all Massachusetts Fire Prevention Association
and the Essex County Fire Chief’s Association - Fire Prevention Division meetings
to keep up-to-date with any new regulations or any changes to the present ones.

Please remember Fire Prevention is everyone’s responsibility. Let’s keep
Marblehead a Fire Safe community.




                                      178
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                          Incite the desire to prevent a fire!


Respectfully submitted,


Captain Michael A. Porter
Fire Prevention Officer

                                      S.A.F.E.
The following is a report from the Marblehead Fire Department Student Awareness
Fire Education (S.A.F.E.) Program for the year 2007.
The program is made possible by a grant from the Office of Public Education. The
goal of this program is to conduct fire and life safety education programs within the
town of Marblehead using trained firefighters as educators. Each of our educators is
certified as Public Life Safety Educator by the Massachusetts Firefighting
Academy.
For the past twelve years we have conducted a comprehensive six-week Fire and
Life Safety Program with all first and third grade students. The program covers
subjects such as Stop, Drop and Roll! Home Escape Plans, and Get Out and Stay
Out.
We continued our program for graduating High School Seniors about college
dormitory fire and life safety. We also continued our program focused on “common
sense” life safety for our High School Freshman. Additionally a fire/life safety
seminar was conducted in conjunction with the Housing Authority at Farrell Court.
We are always pleasantly surprised by the residents, their comments and questions.
Fire Prevention Week is the second week in October and the Marblehead Fire
Department along with the SAFE Program had its annual Open House. This year at
our Open House we had a beautiful day, and over 400 visitors came by to meet our
Firefighters and to learn about what we do and the equipment we use. Captain
Porter arranged for the Department of Fire Services “Home Sprinkler
Demonstration Trailer.” It turned out to be a huge hit with both kids and adults. We
set up a fire extinguisher demonstration using a stove with a grease fire on top. We
believe that learning how to use a fire extinguisher before you need to use it is
extremely important. I would like to thank all of the Firefighters who helped us set
up and man all of our demonstrations. Each year we take it as a challenge to go




                                         179
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



above and beyond the year before; please be sure to drop in next year to see what
we have come up with.
I would like to thank the following educators who work so hard towards the
betterment of our program: Firefighter Greg Lydon for doing such a great job with
the First Graders; Firefighter Scott Martin, Firefighter Martin Hines and Firefighter
Jeff Greenberg for getting sprayed with the hose and packing up after all the fun;
Firefighter Rick DiGiammarino for making sure we have all the supplies we need;
Firefighter Tim Doane for continually coming up with new and innovative
programs for us to try; and Captain Mike Porter for helping us move in the right
direction and facilitating some of our more “non-traditional” ideas. And thanks to
the entire Marblehead Fire Department; without their support, a lot of our programs
would not be possible.
A special thanks to the children for being so wonderful and their teachers for
allowing us into the classrooms.


Respectfully Submitted,
Firefighter Brendan Sheehan
SAFE Coordinator



                                  TRAINING
Undoubtedly, the single most important factor in producing and maintaining a high
level of proficiency in any fire department is an ongoing commitment to training.

The Training Division is responsible for coordinating and facilitating the most
comprehensive and current training available to the firefighters of the Marblehead
Fire Department, so they may continue to perform in a safe and efficient manner,
allowing them to provide the citizens of Marblehead with the highest level of
emergency services available.

The Training Division coordinates all in house training by developing a monthly
training calendar based on identified training needs and mandated training topics.
The company officers are responsible for conducting regular drills and classroom
training on their respective shifts. Outside agencies and independent instructors
provide additional knowledge and skills in areas that require specialized training.




                                        180
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



All newly appointed firefighters are required to attend the twelve-week Recruit
Training Program at the Massachusetts Firefighting Academy. In the past year,
firefighters Jeff Greenberg, John Lequin, James Horgan, and Eric Ridge graduated
from this program and upon completion obtained State and Pro Board certification
as Firefighter I/II. It should be noted that 75% of the department’s personnel have
now graduated from the Firefighting Academy, and 80% hold certification as
Firefighter I/II.

The Marblehead Fire Department has transitioned into a very young and energetic
department. With this transition came a renewed sense of professionalism and a
desire for further career development. Many of the firefighters have taken advantage
of the opportunity to expand their knowledge and skills beyond the parameter of the
in-service training. In the past year our officers have attended Fire Officer I/II
training and certification, Senior Fire Officer Forums, as well as committing
countless hours studying for promotion. Likewise, our firefighters have attended
Structural Firefighting, Hybrid Car/Vehicle Extrication, Technical Rescue, Basic
and Advanced Fire Investigation, and Incident Command Training. I would like to
congratulate firefighter John Tobey for successfully completing the 160 hour
Hazardous Material Technician Training and for certifying as a Hazardous
Materials Technician.

All firefighters realize the importance of training in buildings typical to the ones
they respond to. From a small single-family residence to large commercial
structures, these buildings provide excellent training opportunities. In 2007, due to
the diligence of our Fire Prevention Bureau, we were able to secure four structures
to conduct non-live training evolutions in. These four structures afforded our
firefighters the opportunity to practice strategy and tactics, and gain practical
experience with tools and equipment.

Providing emergency medical response to our citizens is one of our greatest
priorities. Our commitment to patient care is paramount. Ninety-five percent of our
firefighting personnel are Massachusetts State Certified Emergency Medical
Technicians. As a requirement of maintaining certification as an EMT, the State
mandates 28 hours of continuing education and a 24 hour refresher course. The
Marblehead Fire Department conducts over 275 hours of medical and related
training a year. The Fire Department is also actively involved with the Heart Safe
Community CPR/Defibrillation program. We have provided CPR and defibrillator
training to other town departments, citizens groups, religious organizations and
local business.




                                        181
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



I would like to recognize and thank those individuals and departments that have
assisted with logistics and training locations:
      • The Marblehead High School and Veterans Middle School for use of their
          facilities.
      • Abbot Public Library for use of their conference room.
      • Department of Public Works Director, Dana Snow for his continued
          support
      • Bill’s Towing and Naumkeag Used Auto Parts for supplying and
          removing our training vehicles.
      • Shawn Lerner, from When Seconds Count, for his assistance with medical
          training

I would like to express my appreciation to all the officers and firefighters who have
helped make the training program successful by their cooperation and assistance.

Respectfully,


Captain Jason R. Gilliland
Training Officer

                    EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
The Emergency Management Agency prepares for natural and manmade disasters.
The Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) serves as the local
branch of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).

Marblehead continues as an active member of the Essex County Regional Planning
Committee. Regional Emergency Management continues to be very essential, since
the Office of Domestic Preparedness has indicated that they prefer to distribute
future Homeland Security funding on a regional basis.

The storms in April resulted in the closing of the causeway and Front Street for six
consecutive high tides. Marblehead emergency shelters (Marblehead High School,
Veterans Middle School, Village School, and Council of Aging/Park and
Recreation) were inspected by Red Cross officials during 2007.

The Federal Government has mandated that all personnel that may respond to, or
participate in, mitigation in an emergency incident, receive training in the National
Incident Management System (NIMS) and Incident Command System (ICS).




                                        182
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




During 2007, Marblehead Firefighters, Police Officers, Health Department and
town officials participated in and completed NIMS 700, ICS 100, ICS 200/300.
Further ICS training will be conducted in 2008.

I would like to thank all department heads and town employees who have provided
service and support.

Respectfully,


Charles Cerrutti
Emergency Management Director




                                     183
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




           FORT SEWALL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE

The Fort Sewall Oversight Committee is an eight-member group appointed by the
Board of Selectmen and comprised of the following: Larry Sands – Glover’s
Marblehead Regiment, Chairman; Judy Anderson – Marblehead Museum and
Historical Society; Joyce Booth – Marblehead Historical Commission; Brenda
Arnold – Old Marblehead Improvement Association; Maureen McKinnon-Tucker –
Selectmen’s Advisory Committee on Disabilities; David Rodgers – Recreation and
Parks Commission; Julia Bantly – Old and Historic Districts Commission Ed Lang
– At large member; and Phil Norcross – At large member. Rebecca Curran, Town
Planner and Thomas Hamond, Recreation and Park Department are both ex-officio
members.

Several significant improvements were completed at the Fort in 2007. A Memorial
Bench Program was undertaken and thanks to the generosity of 34 benefactors
every bench surrounding the Fort was replaced. For a donation of $1814 each
donor purchased a 12’ long cement-based, mahogany bench with a 10”x 2” bronze
memorial plaque. The location of each bench was determined by a lottery and
every bench was “adopted” within a few weeks of the announcement of the project.
Other improvements included replacement of the cedar split-rail fence, replacement
of the Cleary and George Washington memorial trees and the large tree with the
metal patch at the top of the Fort. The committee thanks Pat Cerrutti for all her
enthusiasm and work coordinating this program.

The committee continued work on the Fort Sewall Restoration Project that began
several years ago with a grant to develop a master plan for the fort. This year we
will complete our Phase 1 work with the replacement of the fence over the fort,
installation of new lighting (and buried wires); and the completion of landscaping.
We are also planning for the first annual Fort Sewall Clean-Up Day to be co-
sponsored by the Old Marblehead Improvement Association as well as the
installation of a memorial commemorating the USS Constitution’s three visits to
Marblehead. We will also continue planning for the next phase toward completion
of the master plan.

The Fort Sewall Oversight Committee was saddened by the death of long-time
member Virginia Gamage in 2007. Mrs. Gamage’s knowledge and passion for
Marblehead and her commitment to historical preservation will be deeply missed.




                                       184
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Respectfully submitted,

Larry Sands, Chairman
Judy Anderson
Joyce Booth
Brenda Arnold
Ed Lang
Phil Norcross
Maureen McKinnon-Tucker
David Rodgers
Julia Bantly
Rebecca Curran, Town Planner
Thomas Hamond, Recreation and Park Department




                                   185
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                         HARBORS AND WATERS

The Harbor and Waters Board is pleased to submit its annual report for the period
ending December 31, 2007.

The visiting yacht facility located at The Harbormasters Quarters at Tuckers Wharf
was very active through out the season

From June thru October the Marine Sanitation Pump out Boat operated Monday
thru Fridays as well as the land based pump out facility at Cliff Street. The
Department pumped out approx 250marine sanitary holding tanks during the 2007
season.

The Massachusetts Division of Waterways dredging project for Little Harbor
continues to be delayed.

The Harbormaster’s patrol staff responded to various calls and rendered such aid
as, towing disabled vessels, dewatering vessels, providing medical assistance,
conducting search and rescue for overdue vessels, investigated fuel and oil spills,
removed various hazards to navigation.

    Special events patrolled;

          July 4, 2007 Fireworks
          July 7, 2007 Marblehead to Halifax Race

Kelley Marine Resources and Dan Lynch Engineers, both of Marblehead, were
hired to secure permits and create drawings for the proposed pier project on the
waterfront at Gerry Playground.

The Harbors and Waters Board extends its gratitude to The Board of Selectmen, as
well as all the Town Departments and their employees that provide service and
support to the Harbormasters operations.

Respectfully submitted
Charles J .Dalferro
Harbormaster

Harbor and Waters Board Members




                                       186
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Gary P .Gregory - Chairman
John Doub                William Pattison
Jay Michaud              Paul N. Williams

Alternate members

Kenneth Breen, Eliot Rothwell, Paul Stevens

Harbormaster Personnel

Charles J. Dalferro       Harbormaster
Fred Webb Russell III     Assistant Harbormaster
Daniel Roads              Assistant Harbormaster
Sandra Carney             Office Manager

Seasonal Assistants

Frank Mac Iver            Joseph Homan
Thomas Murray             Jeffrey Flynn
Raymond Gauthier

To view the Manual for Marblehead Waters as well as other harbor related
information visit our web page at www.Marblehead.org/Harbors




                                      187
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




              MARBLEHEAD CULTURAL COUNCIL

FY07, sixteen grants were awarded from the funds allotted to Marblehead by the
Massachusetts Cultural Council, a state agency that supports public programs and
educational activities in the arts, sciences and humanities:

    •   Scott Jameson magic and juggling performance targeted towards a family
        audience. This interactive performance took place at the Abbot Public
        Library as the kick off to the summer reading program. (awarded $250)
    •   Cinquain Poetry and Fold-Out Book Workshop - Participants will create a
        five line poem about an animal. The poem will then be illustrated in a five
        page accordion fold-out book. This took place at the Abbot Public Library
        for children from 7 years and up. (awarded $200)
    •   Old North Festival Chorus - Performance by a chorus of 100/4 paid
        soloists/18 piece professional orchestra, an audience from Boston to
        Newburyport and beyond - the children's choir from Old North Church and
        Community and Bell Choir from old North Church. (awarded $200)
    •   Art Ed for Elders - This is a series of 3 three session educational lectures
        about art with slides at the Marblehead Community Center. The first series
        would focus on Masterpiece Paintings and feature a different artist’s work
        each session. The second series would focus on American artists and the
        third on contemporary artists. (awarded $450)
    •   “When the Animals Danced” by Bob E. Thomas - Storytelling, dance and
        audience participation are featured in this program for children ages 4-10.
        (awarded $300)
    •   Symphony by the Sea – The Fine Arts Department at Marblehead Public
        Schools is working with Ellen Levine, Educational Director of Symphony
        by the Sea to bring musicians from the symphony in to the classrooms. A
        quartet of musicians will visit all 13 third grade music classes from Glover,
        Bell and Coffin Schools during the winter of 2007. Musicians will
        perform musical pieces as a quartet, discuss the differences between in
        instruments, perform with students on their recorders, and conduct a
        question and answer component. (awarded 400)
    •   Shakespeare Residency – The Rebel Shakespeare Company directs 225 7th
        graders in performing a Shakespeare play. (awarded $800)
    •   Flutist and Classical Guitarist performing music from the Medieval and
        Renaissance periods through the present. This event took place at the
        Marblehead Arts Association. (awarded $300)Evolutions ’07 Art Exhibit
        was a 2 day outdoor exhibit by 14 award winning artists. (awarded $200)




                                       188
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



    •    North Shore Peace Poetry Contest – The Veterans for Peace Annual Poetry
         Contest, sponsored by VFP members of the North Shore communities of
         Massachusetts was offered for the 8th consecutive year. (awarded $150)
    •    Retreat from Moscow, a drama by William Nicholson. This grant was
         requested by the Mugford Street Players. (awarded $400)
    •    Edible Wild Plants of New England presented by John Root. John
         presented this introduction to identification and uses of our native plants
         for food and beverage at the Community Center in Marblehead. (awarded
         $350)
    •    Bagpipe Presentation – This presentation consisted of a history of the
         origins of the bagpipes from biblical times to the present, how the bagpipes
         have played a part in the culture of the Scottish people, how they are made,
         how they work and a bagpipe performance. (awarded $200)
    •    Student Storytelling Workshop – This is for kids 4th through 8th grade.
         This is being presented by Tony Toledo. (awarded $500)
    •    Follow Hymn Ministries, Inc presents Jazz is a Rainbow. This is a
         multicultural, theatrical music education project. (awarded $ 700)
    •    Inca Sun Performance – This grant was requested to expand the cultural
         diversity of the Marblehead Festival of the Arts. Inca Sun is a band of
         Peruvian decent that plays cultural music. (awarded $300)

The Marblehead Cultural Council members review applications from individuals,
schools and organizations, for arts, humanities and interpretive science projects, and
then vote which projects should be awarded MCC funding. There are mandated
state guidelines to follow, and we chose to impose these additional local limits:

        Events must take place in Marblehead
        Each applicant must have secured a venue before the application due date.

Funding priorities changed from years past. We encouraged anyone interested to
apply. We focused on funding a broad selection of events for the residents of
Marblehead.

The members of the FY 06-07 Marblehead Cultural Council were: Michele Bell,
Susan Gessner, Ava Lawrence, Chairperson, Howard Rosenkrantz, Sandra
Broughton, Georgia Murray and Joan Hollister.

Respectfully submitted,

Ava Lawrence, Chairperson




                                        189
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




          MARBLEHEAD HISTORICAL COMMISSION

The mission of the Marblehead Historical Commission as set forth by State Statue is
to protect, preserve and develop the assets of the Town of Marblehead
The state Statues referred to are Massachusetts General Law Chapter 40, Section 8d.

To accomplish this charge the members of the commission have acquired rooms in
Abbot Hall to display and store historic artifacts, maintain a Maritime Room, a gift
shop and provide office space for researching and cataloging the items in the
collection. This collection includes material about Marblehead and Marbleheaders,
U.S. Navy and merchant ships connected with Marblehead and/or named for
Marbleheaders.

The office is in the second floor of Abbot Hall, phone number 781-639-3425.
Normal office hours are from 9:00AM to 2:30 PM with and hour from 11:30 to
12:30 for lunch. As the office is staffed by volunteers there may be times when it is
not manned.

The collection contains 8480 items which have been cataloged, about 300 items in
process of cataloging in the Cole Maritime Room and many more still waiting to be
cataloged. Of these 8480 items 593 are objects, 4109 photographs (2582 color
slides and the rest paper prints except for a few negatives), 3568 archives (printed
paper items that are not books) and 210 books.

1n 2007 we have accomplished the following:

         1. Cataloged 1317 additional items.
         2. Set price schedules for copies of photographs, postcards and other items
            not under copyright.
         3. Made plans for a plaque depicting the history of Tucker’s Wharf to be
            placed on the Harbormaster’s Office on the wharf.
         4. We have received notice that the ships bell from the U.S.S Marblehead
             C11 would be deaccessed from the San Francisco Maritime Museum of
            the National Park Service. We requested that the bell be given to
            Marblehead and as of January 2008 the request was granted and we
            expect to receive the bell before the first of February 2008.
         5. On December 1, 2007 we dedicated Dr. Cole’s Maritime Room with a
            display of the new mahogany and gold sign. Dr. Cole, members of his
            family and friends and many Marbleheaders attended.
         6. We assisted the staff of the Town Clerk’s office with advice, materials




                                        190
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



           and literature on their project to sort and catalog documents in her files
           that go back to the founding of the Town


In the past year Paul Lausier and Elizabeth McKinnon, both long time members of
the commission, died. Paul “Chris” Johnston was chosen to replace Paul and the
Selectmen will be choosing a replacement for Mrs. McKinnon in January 2008.

The same volunteers as in 2006 have continued with the cataloging the collection.
They are Wayne Butler, Eleanor Rhoades, Chris Johnston, and Richard Case, and in
the spring of 2007 Eric N Tremblay a, senior at Marblehead High School, worked
on a special project as an intern.

The Gift Shop/Museum is managed by Gail Gray and is staffed by volunteers. The
Maritime Room has a new group of volunteers to man it. We hope to have both the
Gift Shop and the Marine room open for visitors in the Spring of 2008.

18 January 2008

Respectfully submitted,

Wayne T. Butler, Chairman
Joyce L. Booth, Secretary
Raymond F. Cole, Jr.
Nancy Graves
William E. Conly
Paul “Chris” Johnston
Donald Gardner




                                        191
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




             MARBLEHEAD HOUSING AUTHORITY

The Marblehead Housing Authority is pleased to submit our annual report for the
year ending December 31, 2007.

The Marblehead Housing Authority is “a public body politic and corporate”
authorized by State Law and regulated by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
(Department of Housing and Community Development).

The Board of Commissioners consists of four members elected by the Town, and
one member appointed by the Governor. The Board meets regularly on the third
Tuesday of each month and conducts its Annual Meeting and election of officers
every June.

The Board of Commissioners contract with an Executive Director who administers
the day-to-day operation of the Agency.

The Marblehead Housing Authority administers three (3) housing programs
designed to provide the Town with decent, safe, and affordable housing. The
Authority currently operates 307 units of state-assisted conventional housing, as
follows:

                        1 bedroom     2 bedroom        3 bedroom          Total
Family Housing:
Barnard Hawkes Ct           N/A             12               10            22
Broughton Road              N/A             33               21            54
New Broughton Road          N/A              4                4             8

Elderly Housing
Powder House Court           38             N/A             N/A            38
Green Street Court           32             N/A             N/A            32
Farrell Court                64             N/A             N/A            64
New Farrell Court            48             N/A             N/A            48
Roads School                 41             N/A             N/A            41

TOTAL                       223             49               35            307




                                      192
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Funding for all programs is received through the Department of Housing and
Community Development (DHCD). Although the Marblehead Housing Authority is
eligible for subsidy under its contributions contract with the DHCD, at the present
time the overall income from rents is in excess of the allowable expense level, and
therefore the Authority does not receive a subsidy.

The Marblehead Housing Authority receives no funding from the Town of
Marblehead.

Eligibility

The Net Income Limits for determining admission to state-aided housing are as
follows:

              No. in Household:                 Net Income Limit:
                     1                                 $46,300
                     2                                 $52,950
                     3                                 $59,550
                     4                                 $66,150
                     5                                 $71,450
                     6                                 $76,750
                     7                                 $82,050
                     8                                 $87,350

Assets: There is no longer any asset limit in any of the Authority’s programs. The
current HUD determined interest rate, or actual interest earned on assets, is included
as income.

Local preference is given to eligible applicants who live or work in the town of
Marblehead.

 Veteran’s Preference is given for family housing and to elderly local applicants.

Rent

Residents of elderly housing pay 30% of their adjusted gross income for rent, which
includes all utilities. The average rent paid this year by an elderly resident was
$342.00.

The lowest rent paid this year was $50.00 and the highest rent paid was $1094.00.




                                        193
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Family residents pay 27% of their adjusted income toward rent, and pay for their
own utilities. Family residents are also given an annual heat allowance of $500.00
(two bedroom unit) or $600.00 (three bedroom unit). The average rent paid by a
family this year was $435.00. The lowest rent paid by a family was $48.00 and the
highest rent paid was $1527.00.

The Authority processed three hundred and ninety (390) rent re-certifications,
including two hundred and sixty-nine (269) annual re-certifications and one hundred
and twenty-one (121) interim rent changes.

Applications for Admission/Occupancy Statistics

The Authority received fifty-nine (59) applications for elderly housing during 2007,
including twenty-six (26) under the age of sixty (60). There are currently eight-five
(85) applicants on the waiting list for elderly housing, including seventy-three (73)
young disabled applicants.

There were thirty (30) vacancies in elderly housing during 2007. Of those
vacancies, ten (10) entered a nursing home, and eight (8) went to live with family.

The average age of a resident in elderly housing is seventy-six (76).

There are fifteen (15) residents over the age of ninety (90), including six (6) residents age
ninety-five (95) or older. Our oldest resident is age ninety-eight (98).

In accordance with State guidelines, 13.5% of the units are occupied by disabled residents
under the age of sixty (60).

The family housing 3 bedroom waiting list re-opened for two months during 2007.
During this time, the Authority received seventeen (17) applications, bringing the
total number of families on the waiting list at the end of the year to ninety-four (94).

During 2007, sixteen (16) families moved from family housing: three (3) families
purchased their first home, twelve (12) families moved to private housing, and one
family (1) family was evicted for lease violations. In addition, three (3) families
were transferred within the Authority due to being either under-housed or over-
housed.

Of the eighty-one (81) units of family housing occupied at year-end, there were
sixty-seven (67) single-parent households, and fourteen (14) two-parent households.




                                           194
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



There are one hundred and eleven (111) children under the age of eighteen (18)
living in the family housing complexes.

Maintenance

The Maintenance Department completed a total of fourteen hundred and twelve
(1412) work orders, including resident requests, Authority requests, and inspection
findings.

Three hundred and ninety-eight (398) unit inspections were completed this year.
These included an annual inspection of every apartment, forty-seven (47) move-in
inspections, forty-eight (48) move-out inspections, and seventeen (17) interim
inspections.

The Department also completed forty-nine (49) apartment turn-overs: thirty (30)
elderly and nineteen (19) family units (7 two-bedroom and 12 three-bedroom).

In addition, the maintenance staff performed a spring clean-up and planting,
summer mowing, watering, weeding, and trimming; fall clean-up and winter snow
and ice removal.

Capital Improvements

This past year has been one of many accomplishments, and the Authority completed
several major capital improvement projects.

Through a grant from the Department of Housing & Community Development
(DHCD), the final phase of the Environmental Clean-up at the family housing
complex located at Barnard Hawkes Court was completed. The total cost of this
project was approximately $200,000.00.

The Authority was awarded a funding grant in the amount of $25,000.00 by DHCD
to study the dry pipe sprinkler system at the Roads School. A Fire Protection
Designer has been selected and the study/investigative phase was underway as of
the end of the year.

A sump pump replacement project in the amount of $20,000.00 was completed at
our family housing complex located on Broughton Road.




                                       195
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



The exterior steel doors at the Roads School were replaced this year, and a fence at
this complex was replaced.

The Authority began an exterior door replacement project at our Green Street Court
elderly housing complex. This project will include the removal of sixteen (16)
existing steel doors, installation of new doors with sidelights, new hardware, new
trim and painting. This project is estimated to cost approximately $35,000.00.

The Authority also began an exterior door replacement project at our family housing
complex located at Barnard Hawkes Court. New entry doors, storage room doors,
and new storm doors costing approximately $30,000.00 were purchased and are
being installed by our maintenance staff.

Numerous other capital projects were completed during the year. The Authority
spent approximating $20,000.00 on the replacement of appliances (stoves and
refrigerators) in our elderly housing units. Heating system upgrades, roof repairs,
gutter repairs, new flooring, and kitchen cabinets were replaced throughout our
complexes.

Services to Residents

Communication with residents remains a priority. The Authority distributes a
monthly newsletter to all three hundred and seven (307) households, and welcomes
residents to meet with staff and neighbors at a monthly coffee hour. The Authority
sponsored ten (10) guest speakers at this year’s coffee hours.

Every new resident is provided with a packet of information called “Making the
Connection”, designed to inform them about the Authority’s policies and
procedures, as well as information about local agencies and programs that may be of
assistance to them.

The Authority also sponsors a number of programs designed with our residents in
mind. These include the following:

Resident Service Coordination: By identifying residents that may need assistance
through interviews, phone calls, at the annual unit inspection and the annual rent
recertification meeting, this program links residents to the community resources that
will enable them to live independently for as long as possible. This year, twenty-
five (25) referrals for services were made, including home making, transportation,




                                        196
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



mental health issues, financial assistance, medical assistance and protective
services.

The Authority completed its sixth year of a Rent Escrow Program, which enables
eligible households in family housing to transition to unsubsidized housing options
in the private market. Eligible households are charged rent as usual, based on their
total household income. A portion of that rent is placed in an escrow account by the
Authority. Escrow funds, which cannot exceed $10,000.00, may be used by a
participating household to make the transition to unsubsidized housing by paying
costs such as down payments, closing costs, first and last months rent, security
deposits and moving costs. Four (4) families participated in this program during
2007. One family moved and used their rent escrow funds to move to private
housing.

The Authority sponsored our 9th Annual Safety Program for residents of elderly
housing, in conjunction with the Marblehead Police and Fire Departments. The
Authority’s “Emergency and Safety Plan”, which is designed to keep residents and
staff as safe as possible during an emergency, was also distributed.

Emergency Bags purchased for our elderly residents by the Marblehead Rotary
Club and the Rotary Club of Marblehead Harbor were distributed.

The 4th Annual Cookout was held in September, and our 11th Annual Holiday
Open House took place in December. Both events were well attended by residents,
staff and members of the Board of Commissioners. The Authority wishes to thank
local businesses for their generous donations which make these events possible.

Community Activities:

The Marblehead Housing Authority Providers Group, consisting of
representatives from local service agencies and community organizations that serve
the needs of the elderly residents in town, continued to meet monthly to share
information, collaboration and outreach.

The Authority holds monthly health clinics, sponsored by the
Marblehead/Swampscott VNA at all of our community rooms, affording residents
an opportunity to have their blood pressure checked on a regular basis, discuss
medical conditions and have questions answered.




                                       197
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



The Executive Director is a member of the TRIAD Council, a partnership between
the Essex County Sheriff’s Department, the District Attorney’s Office, the
Marblehead Police Department and the Marblehead Council on Aging. The TRIAD
program develops and implements an effective crime prevention and education
program for elders.

The Housing Authority wishes to thank the current staff, Assistant Director Debra
Larkin, Housing Manager Cynthia Palladino, Administrative Assistant Ann
Chainey, Office Clerk Christine Levoshko, Maintenance Foreman John Bonfanti,
and Maintenance Department staff members Mark Sasso, Christopher Homan, and
Stephen Abramo, for their dedication and hard work during the past year.

The Housing Authority also wishes to express its sincere appreciation to the town
departments and the citizens of Marblehead, who have supported and assisted the
Authority in our efforts to provide affordable housing for the residents of
Marblehead.

Respectfully submitted,


Nancy M. Marcoux,
Executive Director

Board of Commissioners:
Jean R. Eldridge, Chairman
Richard Whitehill, Vice Chair
Robert Bryne, Treasurer
Peter Russell, Assistant Treasurer & State Appointee
Pamela Basso, Member




                                       198
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




         METROPOLITAN AREA PLANNING COUNCIL

Created in 1963, the Metropolitan Area Planning Council (MAPC) promotes inter-
local cooperation and advocates for smart growth by working closely with cities and
towns, state and federal agencies, non-profit institutions, and community-based
organizations in the 101 cities and towns of Metropolitan Boston. MAPC strives to
provide leadership on emerging issues of regional significance by conducting
research, building coalitions, and acting as a regional forum for action.

MAPC provides technical assistance and specialized services in land use planning,
water resources management, transportation, housing, environmental protection,
economic development, public safety, geographic information systems (GIS),
collective purchasing, data analysis and research, legislative and regulatory policy,
and the facilitation and support of inter-local partnerships. More information is
available at www.mapc.org.

MAPC is governed by 101 municipal government appointees, 21 gubernatorial
appointees, and 13 appointees of state and City of Boston agencies. An Executive
Committee comprising 25 elected members oversees agency operations. The agency
employs approximately 40 professional staff under the leadership of an executive
director. Funding for MAPC activities is derived from governmental contracts and
foundation grants, and a per-capita assessment on member municipalities.

To better serve the people who live and work in Metro Boston, MAPC has divided
the region into eight subregions. Each subregion is overseen by a council of local
leaders and stakeholders, and a staff coordinator provides organizational and
technical staff support.


Advancing Smart Growth

MAPC’s MetroFuture: Making a Greater Boston Region initiative is planning
for Metro Boston’s growth and development through 2030. In 2007, the project
involved nearly 1,000 people (on top of the 4,000 who participated in previous
years). MAPC presented the MetroFuture plan at a
May 1 Boston College Citizen Seminar, where participants overwhelmingly voted
to ratify it and work for its implementation. MAPC is now developing an
implementation strategy, addressing public policy, public funding priorities, and
changes in practice within the private sector. By mid-2008, MetroFuture will
transition from a planning initiative to an advocacy program, uniting the efforts of




                                        199
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



MAPC, partner organizations, and the thousands of “plan-builders” in an effort to
alter regional priorities and growth patterns consistent with the new plan.

As a member of the Massachusetts Smart Growth Alliance, MAPC helped form
the Transportation Investment Coalition. This group of business, environmental,
public interest, and planning organizations is pressing for savings, efficiencies, and
new revenues to address the state transportation finance deficit. The Alliance joined
with others to advocate successfully for an increase in the Commonwealth’s Bond
Cap, increasing the resources available to address the state’s capital needs. Through
the Alliance, MAPC is also working to reform the state’s arcane zoning laws
through a new and diverse commission, chaired by Undersecretary for Economic
Development Gregory Bialecki.

MAPC provides planning assistance and expertise to communities on a wide range
of issues, helping them envision the future and evaluate alternatives within a smart-
growth framework. Residents of Malden are taking a long-range look at their city
through the Malden Vision Project, which kicked off last year with a city-wide
visioning workshop attended by 250 participants. MAPC helped the town of
Arlington deal with housing and economic development issues with a visioning
workshop and resident survey, and helped develop new bylaws and other strategies.
MAPC also assisted Walpole and Norfolk in developing and analyzing alternative
growth scenarios along a shared stretch of Route 1A.

Working with the 495/MetroWest Corridor Partnership, MAPC produced a
WaterSmart Indicators report that details trends in water supply, wastewater, and
stormwater for each city and town in the study area. MAPC also completed water
resource strategies for three towns in the Assabet Watershed to evaluate the
environmental impacts of alternative growth patterns, relying in part on hydrologic
modeling conducted by the U.S. Geological Survey.


Collaboration for Excellence in Local Government

Through its Metro Mayors Coalition, MAPC helped 21 communities secure over
$2 million in Shannon Grant funding over the past two years to implement multi-
jurisdictional, multi-disciplinary strategies to combat youth violence, gang violence,
and substance abuse. In 2007, Gov. Deval Patrick and more than 240 mayors, police
chiefs, safety officials and violence prevention workers participated in the
coalition’s third annual Community Safety Summit to advance strategies to curb




                                        200
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



youth violence. Through its newly created North Shore Coalition, MAPC is
facilitating discussions to develop a regional, comprehensive mutual aid system.

Cities and towns now have the option of joining the Massachusetts Group Insurance
Commission (GIC) with a new law drafted by MAPC and the Municipal Health
Insurance Working Group. This option will help communities save millions of
dollars each year by taking advantage of lower insurance rates available through the
GIC. MAPC facilitated the Working Group and helped to build consensus for the
proposal. We are now providing technical support to cities, towns, and regional
entities who are interested in joining the GIC.

MAPC has convened Boston, Chelsea, Everett, Malden, Medford and Somerville to
develop a shared strategy for the Mystic River corridor. The river, which runs
through dense urban communities, has long been an underutilized asset. The
communities will develop a comprehensive picture of activities along the river and
will seek to build a shared strategy for future development and use of the waterway.

MAPC collaborated with the Commonwealth’s 12 other regional planning agencies,
municipal officials and other local leaders to help produce “A Best Practices
Model for Streamlined Local Permitting.” The result of dozens of focus groups
and a statewide permitting survey, the document provides an array of
recommendations that municipalities can consider to create a more clear, efficient
and predictable permitting process without compromising local standards of
development review. The guide is available at www.mass.gov/mpro.


Collaboration for Public Safety

MAPC performs fiduciary, planning, and project management duties for the
Northeast Homeland Security Regional Advisory Council (NERAC), a network
of 85 cities and towns north and west of Boston. In 2007, MAPC helped to develop
the School Threat Assessment Response System (STARS), an emergency planning
toolkit for each school district in the region. With the assistance of MAPC, NERAC
provided portable radios programmed for the Boston Area Police Emergency Radio
Network, enabling real-time radio communications among police, fire, and other
first responders during major emergencies. In the past year, NERAC established an
online information clearinghouse for police and fire departments, and began
planning for emergency evacuations from a regional perspective. MAPC also
helped NERAC to set up three regional crime mapping centers that use GIS to
visualize crime data through maps.




                                       201
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




MAPC completed Pre-Disaster Mitigation (PDM) plans for nine communities in
2007, on top of the 20 completed in recent years. Each plan includes an inventory of
critical facilities and infrastructure, a vulnerability analysis, and a mitigation
strategy with recommended actions. MAPC will continue working with 46 cities
and towns in 2008.


Collaboration for Municipal Savings

MAPC’s Regional Purchasing Consortia administered six procurements for 42
cities and towns, saving communities up to 20% on purchases such as office
supplies, paving services, and road maintenance. Similar savings were realized by
the 300 agencies that participate in the Greater Boston Police Council (GBPC),
which is administered by MAPC. In fiscal year 2007, MAPC conducted seven
procurements for various types of vehicles, including police cruisers and heavy-duty
trucks. Overall, 187 municipalities purchased 329 vehicles at an estimated cost of
over $20 million.


Reliable Data, Available to All

Since its official launch in February, MAPC’s MetroBoston Data Common online
data and mapping tool has been used by dozens of constituents to create customized
maps for developing grant applications, analyzing development proposals, or
improving services. You can create maps, charts, and graphs on the Data Common
by accessing www.metrobostondatacommon.org. In addition to supporting this
online tool, the Metro Data Center at MAPC responds to data requests from
member communities, non-profit organizations, businesses, residents, students and
other state agencies.

In the past year, MAPC used visualization tools that combine GIS technology,
photography and graphic design to help increase community awareness about
proposed zoning bylaws in Bellingham and Dedham, and to illustrate what different
parts of the region would look like under MetroFuture.


Charting a Course to Regional Prosperity




                                       202
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



MAPC developed its annual Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy
(CEDS) for the region, in partnership with the US Economic Development
Administration. The report contains an analysis of trends and conditions in the
regional economy, highlighting challenges and opportunities. The economic
analysis in the CEDS is targeted to front-line economic development staff working
in the public and community-based sectors.

Working for 12 contiguous urban communities in the Metro Mayors Coalition,
MAPC is developing an inventory of potential development sites near municipal
boundaries to support coordinated planning. MAPC also developed the Smart
Workplace Project, a GIS map of smart-growth friendly sites for commercial and
industrial development throughout the region. In collaboration with the University
of Massachusetts Boston, MAPC is taking a regional look at the space needs of the
life sciences industry.

Working with the Immigrant Learning Center and the Commonwealth Corporation,
MAPC convened academic, institutional and non-profit researchers to develop an
immigration research agenda.


Getting Around the Region

MAPC produced a Regional Bicycle Plan, assessing current conditions and
identifying the improvements necessary to create a more comprehensive regional
bicycle transportation system. The plan establishes updated goals based on previous
plans, and identifies key strategies and priority projects.

Under its new Regional Bike Parking Program, MAPC negotiated discount group
purchasing contracts with three leading vendors of bicycle parking equipment. This
allows MAPC municipalities and other public entities to purchase discounted
equipment and, in some cases, to receive state or federal reimbursement for the cost.
Communities around the region have used the program to put new racks at schools,
libraries, parks, and shopping areas. The program will continue in 2008.

In 2007 MAPC also began work on the Regional Pedestrian Plan. This plan will
identify policies to make walking a convenient, safe, and practical form of
transportation throughout the region. Proposed solutions will include best practices
for local jurisdictions as well as steps that could be taken by the state or by the
Metropolitan Planning Organization.




                                        203
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



MAPC has developed a web-based Parking Toolkit that addresses common
parking issues. Cities and towns can learn how to do a parking study, how to reduce
parking demand and manage supply, how to make use of existing parking, and how
to finance parking improvements. The Parking Toolkit is the first in a series of
Sustainable Transportation Toolkit products that MAPC will develop over the
coming years. Visit http://transtoolkit.mapc.org to access these tools.

Large portions of Massachusetts Avenue and Route 2A from Arlington to Concord
are now a Massachusetts Scenic Byway, due to the efforts of MAPC, the
Minuteman National Historic Park, and the towns of Arlington, Lexington, Lincoln,
and Concord. MAPC is now preparing a Scenic Byway Corridor Management Plan,
the first step in protecting the historic, scenic, and
cultural qualities of the byway.

In 2007, MAPC worked with developers and communities to evaluate the
transportation impacts of dozens of projects, including the South Weymouth Naval
Air Station redevelopment (SouthField), Westwood Station, and Harvard
University’s new Allston campus.


On Beacon Hill

    •   Municipal Health Insurance:
        MAPC and the Municipal Health Insurance Working Group built
        consensus and drafted the new law allowing cities and towns to save
        millions of dollars each year by joining the Group Insurance Commission.

    •   Shannon Community Safety Initiative:
        Over the last two years, MAPC’s advocacy and grant development services
        have helped nearly two dozen communities to secure over $2 million in
        funding for interdisciplinary programs that focus on youth violence, drugs,
        and enforcement against gangs.

    •   Statewide Population Estimates Program:
        A $600,000 line item in the 2008 budget will provide the State Estimates
        Program with more resources to prepare for the 2010 Census. This
        program will help correct the deficiencies of recent population estimates
        and to prevent similar deficiencies from occurring in 2010.

    •   Surplus Land:




                                       204
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



        MAPC continues to advocate for passage of a new policy on the
        disposition of surplus state land. Specifically, we continue to build support
        for our proposal that encourages smart growth development on surplus
        land while giving municipalities a meaningful role throughout the
        disposition process.

    •   Community Preservation Act:
        In 2007, the Metropolitan Mayors Coalition and Community Preservation
        Coalition reached consensus around legislation to help more communities
        participate in the Community Preservation Act (CPA). The legislation,
        filed by Senator Cynthia Creem (D-Newton), would also secure adequate
        funding over the long term for the state’s CPA matching fund.

    •   Zoning Reform:
        The new zoning reform commission, initiated by the Massachusetts Smart
        Growth Alliance and chaired by Undersecretary for Economic
        Development Greg Bialecki, is now working to draft legislation dealing
        with such matters as “approval not required,” grandfathering, consistency
        between master plans and zoning, and incentives to expand housing
        production.


North Shore Task Force

(Beverly, Danvers, Essex, Hamilton, Gloucester, Ipswich, Manchester by the Sea,
Marblehead, Middleton, Nahant, Peabody, Rockport, Salem, Swampscott,
Topsfield, Wenham)

During 2007, the North Shore Task Force took part in a variety of activities,
including:

    Reviewed and offered input into a variety of regional transportation programs,
    including the Transportation Improvement Program, the Unified Planning and
    Work Program and the Regional Transportation Plan, as well as opportunities
    to participate in Transportation Demand Management and Suburban Mobility
    programs.

    Learned how to use visualization and community outreach techniques to build
    support for mixed-use projects and zoning bylaws.




                                       205
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Continued to enthusiastically engage with and serve as a key sounding board
for the MetroFuture Regional Planning process, hosting a widely attended
MetroFuture Forum in December of 2006 and continuing its support throughout
2007.

Received training from MAPC staff in how to use MetroBoston Data Common,
an online tool providing data about the region and each of its cities and towns.
It is a resource for all those wishing to better understand how the region and its
communities are changing, and helps residents, planners, city and town
officials, educators, and journalists explore options and make informed
decisions.

Heard a presentation from the MA Renewable Energy Trust on progress in
expanding renewable energy uses in the state and how communities can start to
use renewable energy, and offered ideas on how alternative energy and
conservation can play a key role in the MetroFuture Plan.

Collaborated with Tufts Urban and Environmental Policy graduate students to
present an in-depth study of how the Town of Ipswich could use Chapter 40R
to help diversify the town’s housing supply and provide an alternative to the
40B housing process.

Used some of the latest work done by MAPC to see how communities can
incorporate Low Impact Development principles -- including meeting EPA
Phase II stormwater requirements with new bylaws -- through a combination of
regulation,   evaluation    of   existing   development      practices  and
stakeholder collaboration.

Continued to offer downtown development and revitalization strategies as the
Department of Housing and Community Development offered examples of and
made a presentation on how to establish successful Business Improvement
Districts (BIDs).

Reviewed ongoing municipal issues using Community Exchange at each
meeting.

Developed a 2008 Topics Agenda that will continue the Task Force’s effort to
attract a large and diverse audience to its meetings by offering meetings
focusing on:
     Alternatives to Traditional Zoning




                                    206
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



        MetroFuture Implementation Strategies
        Downtown Revitalization Strategies
        Sustainable Municipal Energy Policy
        Joint Legislative Meeting with North Shore Mayor's Coalition
        Update on North Shore Open Space Protection: Impact of Community
        Preservation Act and Local Land Trusts
        Case Studies of Successful Local Government Policy: What Works and
        Why
        Case Studies on Successful Intra-Regional Agreements
        Smart Growth and Preservation of Neighborhood Character.


The MAPC Annual Report is respectfully submitted by Marc D. Draisen, Executive
Director, Metropolitan Area Planning Council.




                                    207
   MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




MUNICIPAL LIGHT DEPARTMENT

           Pages

 WATING FOR INFORMATION




            208
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




  MMLD waiting for info




          209
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




  MMLD waiting for info




          210
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




  MMDL waiting for info




          211
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




  MMLD waiting for info




          212
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




  MMLD waiting for info




          213
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




  MMLD waiting for info




          214
MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




  MMLD waiting for info




          215
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




     THE OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISSION

The Old and Historic Districts Commission meets on the first and third Tuesdays of
the month at 7;30p.m. in Abbot Hall. Applications include the application form, a
plot plan, photographs of the existing conditions and three copies of proposed
changes represented by elevations, building plans, and/or any relevant information.
Hearings on applications are scheduled for all except minor or routine applications.
An administrative fee of $35.00 is charged for Public Hearings.

In 2007 the Old and Historic Districts Commission held 23 meetings. The
Commission held 15 Public Hearings, received applications, continued hearings and
held discussions on 184 matters and granted, amended or extended 158 Certificates
of Appropriateness, The Commission denied 4 applications and one was appealed.

The Commission wishes to acknowledge the help and support of the Selectmen’s
Office in the goal of fair, just and timely application of the Old and Historic bylaw.
We also wish to acknowledge the support and assistance of the Board of Selectmen,
the Building Commissioner’s Office, Assistant Town Counsel, the Harbors and
Water Board, the Assessor’s Office, the Town Clerk’s Office, the Engineering
Department, the Abbot Hall Custodians and all the Town employees who gave this
Commission generous, friendly and skilled help.

         Respectfully submitted,

         Thomas Saltman, Chairman                     Suzanne Niemeyer, Alt,
         Julia Bantly, Secretary                      Karl Renney, Alt.
         Susan Bragdon
         F. Reed Cutting, Jr.
         James Patrick




                                        216
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                            PLANNING BOARD

The Planning Board meets at 7:30 p.m. on the second and fourth Tuesday of each
month in the auditorium in Abbot Hall. All meetings are open to the public. The
board is composed of five members, each elected for staggered three year terms.
Members in 2007 included David Stern, Philip Helmes, James Bishop, Karl
Johnson, Edward Nilsson and Kurt James. In August Mr. Stern resigned after over
20 years on the Board. In November Kurt James and Edward Nilsson were
appointed to terms to fill the two vacancies created by the resignations. Until his
resignation in August David Stern served as the chairman.

The Town Planner Rebecca Curran oversees the board’s administrative process and
provides technical assistance to prospective applicants and interested parties seeking
information.

One of the functions of the Planning Board is as a permit granting authority. The
Planning Board issues two types of permits: the Site Plan Approval Special Permit
and Subdivision Control Approvals.

The Site Plan Approval Special Permit process is required for all nonresidential
structures over 700 square feet, all new construction and additions over 500 square
feet located within shoreline districts and any new subdivision resulting in three or
more lots. The Planning Board issued a total of eighteen site plan approval special
permits. Eleven for additions within shoreline districts at the following addresses:
21 Sunset Road, 446 Atlantic Avenue, 352 Atlantic Avenue, 3 Kenneth Road, 361
Ocean Avenue, 1 Stone Terrace, 4 Eustis Road, 3 Davenport Road &
Crowninshield Road, 45 Ticehurst Lane, 16 Foster Street and 4 Anchorage Lane;
one special permit for non residential construction at 11 Atlantic Avenue, four
special permits were issued for the new construction or total reconstruction
(teardown) of existing single family homes at the following addresses 4 Nashua
Avenue, 15 Harbor Avenue, 90 Naugus Avenue, 8 Corn Point Road and one
subdivision of three lots or more at Long View Drive West / 5 Fieldbrook Road.

The Planning Board acted on six subdivision control applications in 2007. Under
the Subdivision Control Law, the Planning Board is required to sign off on plans
which show a subdivision of land having the required frontage. These are called
Approval Not Required (Form A) plans. Five were endorsed in 2007 at the
following addresses, 11 Selman, 11 Peach Highlands, 15-21 Heritage Way, 41
Pilgrim Road and 222 West Shore Drive. Additionally, one Definitive Plan (Form




                                        217
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



C) subdivision was approved for a seven lot subdivision at Longview drive West/ 5
Fieldbrook Road.

Board members served on a variety of boards and committees in 2006 including the
Jim Bishop as the town’s representative on the Metropolitan Area Planning Council.

The board thanks David Stern for his twenty years of service on the board and
dedication to planning issues town wide. Mr. Stern had a tremendous gift for
running an orderly and efficient meeting, always treating applicants and abutters
fairly and courteously. He will be missed by the board.

The Planning Board thanks the Board of Appeals and Building Department for their
input on the Planning Board’s Zoning Subcommittee and in the coordination and
cooperation on various projects throughout the year.

Andrea Flaxer works in the Engineering Department and provides coordination and
administrative assistance with the planning board. The Town Engineer Douglas
Saal provides technical assistance to the board and to prospective applicants. The
board thanks both Andrea and Doug for their fine work.

Respectfully submitted,

Philip Helmes, Chairman
James Bishop
Kurt James
Karl Johnson
Edward Nilsson




                                      218
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                         POLICE DEPARTMENT

The Marblehead Police Department is pleased to submit to the citizens of
Marblehead our Annual Report for the year ending December 31, 2007.
This past year has been very busy for the Police Department with a total of 15,041
logged incidents requiring police response. The Department had a total of 258
arrests including protective custody. Department officers stopped 1681 motor
vehicles for various violations and issued a total of 780 citations. The Department’s
continued policy of strict motor vehicle law enforcement has resulted in a highly
visible police force which has contributed to low accident rates, no motor vehicle
fatalities and low crime rates in general. New programs like “Stop-a-Cop” and
“Zoned Selective Enforcement” brought many officers into the residential and
business areas for the purpose of getting to know people and increasing community
safety.

This year, the Police Department has seen several retirements and promotions.
Chief James Carney retired after 32 years of service. Lt. Robert Picariello was
promoted to take his place on May 21st, 2007. Additionally, Robert Coyne retired
having served as the interim Chief when Chief Carney retired. In the patrol force,
officers Kenneth Nickerson, Henry Currier and John Blasidell all retired this year,
each having many years of service. Jonathan Lunt was promoted to the rank of
Lieutenant and Jason Conrad was promoted to the rank of Sergeant. Lt. Mark Mills
was appointed Temporary Captain until a permanent captain is appointed through
the Civil Service process.

In August, the E911 Dispatch Center was outfitted by the State with the latest
computer technology including Global Positioning (GPS.)           With this new
equipment, dispatchers are able to pinpoint 911 cellular call locations, making it
easier to get help to the correct place as soon as possible.

The Department applied for and received a Community policing Grant from the
State for $47,500. With this money, the Department will be bringing back the
Motorcycle unit as well as walking beats whenever possible. The Marblehead
Police Department continues its safety and security programs through the donations
made to the Safety Awareness Fund and limited grants.

The Department would like to thank all the citizens of Marblehead for their
assistance and support over the past year.




                                        219
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



I would also like to thank the officers and staff of the Police Department for their
dedication and professionalism in carrying out their duty throughout the year.

Respectfully Submitted,

Robert O. Picariello
Chief of Police

Police Department Personnel 2007:

Police Officers:
Chief Robert O. Picariello
Temporary Captain Mark D. Mills
Lieutenant David J. Millett
Lieutenant Matthew Freeman
Lieutenant Jonathan Lunt
Sergeant Donald Decker
Sergeant Marion Keating
Sergeant Sean Sweeney
Sergeant Jason Conrad

Patrol Officers:
Arthur Buckley Jr.         Michael Roads
Paul J. A. Belyea          Sean Brady
Nicholas Economou          Charles Sinclair
Lori Knowles               Eric Osattin
Roy Ballard                Brendan Finnegan
David Ostrovitz            Michael Daigle
Christopher Gallo          Dennis DeFelice
Cary Gaynor                Adam Mastrangelo
Dean Peralta               Michael Everett
Christopher Adkerson       Richard Alex
Jason McDonald

E-911 Dispatchers:
Supervisor Amy Gilliland
Scott Kaufman
Teresa Collins
Gregory Lapham
Michael Bagnell




                                       220
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Matthew Lunt
Edwin Fournier

Senior Clerk:
Deborah Frongillo

Part Time Clerk:          General labor:
Alison Murray             Bartlett Sherman

Animal Control Division:
Animal Control officer Betsy Tufts
Assistant Laura Consigli
Assistant Diane Treadwell

Animal Inspector:
Isabel Lorenco

School Traffic Supervisors:
Paul Lemieux              Edith Chalifour
Anton Cohen               Betty Gatchell
John Spanks               Leonard Cormier
Warren Perry              Randi Warren
John O’Connell            Margaret Denis
Robin Reed                Marshall Young
Elsie Mondesir            Basil Rubin
Elizabeth Greely          Katherine Millett
Thomas Adams              Marjorie Mace

The following Marblehead Officers retired or resigned during 2007:
Chief James Carney - Retired
Temporary Chief Robert Coyne - Retired
Officer Kenneth Nickerson - Retired
Officer Henry Currier - Retired
Officer John Blaisdell - Retired
Officer Chad Collins - Transferred to Lowell Police Department




                                      221
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                            ANIMAL CONTROL

Calls to the Police Station for Animal Control in 2007: 1,097

(These do not include calls made directly to the shelter or the Animal Control
Officer)

DOGS:
Impounded                  74
Returned to Owner          73
Adopted                    9
Euthanized                 0
Complaints                 59
Stray/Loose                367
Reported Missing           74
Barking                    82
Bites                      11
Hit by Car                 14

CATS:
Reported Missing           101
Found                      43
Complaints About           17
Abandoned                  8
Adopted-
        Cats               103
        Kittens            57
Hit by Car                 17

CITATIONS:
(These are issued after verbal and written warnings in most cases)

Failure to leash           78
Failure to License         70
Pooper Scooper-
(caught in the act)        4
Beach/Park                 16
Excessive Barking          17
Failure Vaccinate/Rabies   1




                                        222
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



WILD LIFE:

Calls                      195
Bird Complaints            251
Animal Rescues             6
Marine Life                10
Other Animals              22
Road Kill                  80
Quarantines reported       28


RABID, SICK, INJURED WILDLIFE EUTHENIZED:

Skunks                     1
Raccoons                   4
Birds                      8
Squirrels                  9
Woodchucks                 2
Opossum                    2
Rat                        1

Mutual Aid Calls:          10 (to other towns)

All other orphaned, sick or injured wildlife were brought to a rehabilitator.

Although the Animal Control Department does not handle nuisance wildlife, (they
come under the jurisdiction of the State Division of Fisheries and Wildlife), we have
rescued numerous animals that have wandered/flew into primary living areas and
could not get out on their own.

The Atlantic Veterinary Hospital is the animal hospital on call for the Town. Many
animals are treated at all hours thanks to Dr. Jeff Rockwell D.V.M and his dedicated
staff who come in on nights, weekends and holidays when there is an emergency.
North Shore Animal Hospital in Lynn, owned and operated by Dave Dunn D.V.M.
is the Towns back-up emergency veterinary hospital.

Thanks to the Dog park Committee, our first public dog park is closer to becoming a
reality. This area is proposed to have fencing and waste receptacles making it a safe
and clean environment for dogs and their owners.




                                         223
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



The animal shelter is located at 44 Village Street. Our heartfelt thanks go out to the
dedicated volunteers who work together rescuing, cleaning, feeding, medicating,
raising funds and finding loving homes for all our animals. It would not be possible
without them.

Although we have reduced facts to statistical numbers, many of these numbers
mean so much more. In many cases they represent the loss of a family member, or
the relief of being reunited with one, because that’s what our pets are, family
members who brighten our lives and comfort us. I am sincerely luck to have a
career that enables me to be a part of this.

Respectfully Submitted,

Betsy Tufts
Animal Control Officer




                                        224
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                 RECREATION, PARKS, & FORESTY

The Recreation, Parks, and Forestry Commission submits this report for the year
ending December 31, 2007.

The Commission is made up of five residents who are elected annually at a general
Town election on the second Monday in May each year. The Commission’s
regularly scheduled meetings are held on the first and third Tuesday of each month
at 7:00 PM in the Community Center at 10 Humphrey Street. These meetings
consist of reports, the appearance of persons or groups on the agenda, the review of
correspondence submitted for consideration, discussions of plans and objectives,
and reviews of policies, rules, and regulations as needed. The Commission reviews
and approves the hiring of personnel when recommendations are presented.
Programs and budgets are reviewed by the Commission annually and they act as an
advocate with the Finance Committee and at Town Meeting. The Commission also
reviews and approves the fees and charges made for various uses and programs
concerning the department. The Commission has responsibility for overseeing the
programming, rental, and operation of the Community Center. Night and weekend
fees and rental charges are used in the Revolving Fund to contribute to the operating
and utility costs of the Community Center.

Field and Athletic Facility Maintenance

The Department maintains the fields and is responsible for the field preparation,
including lines, for the following sports: High School (Varsity, Junior Varsity, and
Frosh): football, baseball, softball, lacrosse, soccer, and field hockey; Youth Sports
baseball and football; men’s softball, women’s softball, and co-ed softball.

Spring requires varsity school sports first (Seaside baseball, High School softball,
Middle School lacrosse and baseball), followed by the mid-April Youth Sports
through summer, adult softball through September, and varsity/JV soccer, field
hockey, and football at the end of August. For the months of September, October,
and November, all fall varsity and junior varsity football, soccer, and field hockey
school and youth sports fields are maintained for soccer and football.

The mowing and trimming of athletic fields is now done weekdays with school in
session due to extensive usage on afternoons, evenings, and weekends. Line
marking with latex paint and/or non-caustic chalk is also done while classes are
inside the schools. Crews no longer work weekends on a regular basis as in previous
years so as to provide better supervision and improve efficiency. Mowing of




                                        225
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



properties begins in early April and continues through November on a five day per
week schedule. Leaf cleanups run November and December, and spring cleanups
run March through May. Special playground cedar mulch is purchased and added to
all school and town playgrounds as needed for safety surfacing to reduce the chance
of injuries due to falls. The department is unable to “manicure” the grounds at the
Schools due to budget limitations; plantings and mulch are added as time and
materials allows.

Budget and staff limitations, requests for extra work, and changes on short notice from
coaches and players remain a continual problem. Early spring and late fall scheduling of
field usage depends on when fields are dormant, wet, frozen, or overused in any one area.
Turf damage has extended to a whole playing season in some cases and cannot be
satisfactorily repaired without either closing the damaged field completely and/or taking
on substantial additional expenses for replacement materials and overtime.

Typically in June conditions became normalized and the landscaping and horticultural
problems ease, allowing the department to begin fertilizing, aerating, seeding and
mowing.

Private contractors evaluated the High School and other athletic fields. The Piper Field
was found to still have soil structural problems of compaction in spite of all the aerating,
fertilizing, and over-seeding done, and similar problems were found at the Village
School. The cost quoted for remediation at the Village School was too expensive for our
budget and had to be put on hold. The lower baseball field at the high school is under
reconstruction by TurfLinks with financial assistance from Marblehead Youth Baseball.

The addition of the athletic fields at the Village and Veteran’s schools and the high
school continues to stretch labor and materials thin to maintain and line them for
school events, and this concern continues to be compromised by limited department
funding. The School Department was planning to take back responsibility for all
school property and grounds maintenance beginning with the Fiscal 2008 budget
but withdrew the plan just before the last Town meeting.

Organic fertilizer with corn gluten for weed control is used in early October on
public building grounds including Abbot Hall, the Library, the Community Center,
Memorial Park, Crocker Park, and the fronts of some elementary schools.

During the year a sports utilization group meets at the Community Center with Sam
Ganglani and Linda Rice Collins currently acting as liaisons for the Commission.
The group keeps communications and scheduling concerns open so the various
town sports teams and coaches can minimize conflicts and maximize usage.




                                           226
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Karin Martin continues excellent assistance at Memorial Park as part of the Council
on Aging’s program to pick up and clean the area on a daily basis. The others who
provide outstanding assistance as part of this program in other areas at various times
during the year are: Marge Mace at Redd’s Pond, Old Burial Hill, and Fort Sewall,
Carol Green at Devereux Beach, and Jim Zeiff and Fred Alling at Fort Sewall and
Crocker park assisting with keeping the dog waste bag stations supplied.

Spring 2007 saw some early usage of fields that were too cold and wet which caused
unnecessary compaction and killed roots and crowns on dormant and tender grass
(especially bluegrass) which did not recover. Aeration, over seeding, and fertilization at
additional costs for labor and materials had to be increased and delayed work in other
areas.

All line marking, mowing, and field schedule changes are now coordinated by Assistant
Superintendent and Recreation Supervisor Mike Lane. Grounds Foreman Peter James
assigned Brad Delisle and Bob Gillis to the athletic field marking. The efforts of Mike,
Pete, Brad, and Bob have made the lining for school sports more timely, while the
Commission’s decision to have Mike oversee all athletic field preparation improved the
fields for all the school sports programs usage.

The parks maintenance expense budget was level funded for fiscal year 2008 while
material and delivery costs continued to increase. With these restrictions, and the
limited available seasonal maintenance staff, overtime was paid on weekends during
the summer season for trash collection and other necessary work on an as needed
basis.

The Commission receives numerous requests for fund raising and business use of
the Community Center and the parks. These requests must be approved by a vote of
the Commission as required in the Town By-laws. Among those approved were:

        At the community center:
              o The Chamber of Commerce’s Home and Garden Weekend Show.
              o The Board of Health Flu Shot Clinics.
              o The Marblehead Arrangers Garden Club Christmas plant and
                  arrangement sale at the time of the Christmas Walk.
              o Free seminars
        Camp Shore Lea Nature Center:




                                          227
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



             o   The Massachusetts Audubon Society sponsored a camp program
                 during July with the staff from the Ipswich River Sanctuary
                 supervising.
       Devereux Beach and parking areas:
            o Senior Class Carnival.
            o The M.S. Walk in April.
            o The Chamber of Commerce Carnival fund raiser.
            o The Boston Children’s Hospital “Cycle for Life” used the beach
                 to begin and end its fund raising bike ride.
            o Several other bicycle and road races to use the beach to begin and
                 end events.
       Gerry Playground:
            o The Republican Town Committee.
            o Several Cub Scout outings.
            o Class reunions
            o Eco Farm Co-operative Market from spring through fall.
       Other fields:
            o Boy Scout Troop 11 for the sale of Christmas trees at Gatchells
                 Playground.
            o The Y.M.C.A. fun run at Seaside Park and outdoor summer
                 programs at Orne, Gerry, and Hobbs Playgrounds for soccer and
                 T-ball programs.

Building and Comfort Station (restroom) Maintenance

In addition to the community center other buildings are requiring more attention due
to increasing demand. The department continuously maintains a workshop and
equipment storage at Devereux Beach, the tree garage on Vine Street, the cemetery
garage at Waterside, Gerry Playground garages and playground room storage, and
the Seaside Park grandstand storage for supplies only. Capital expenditures for the
grandstands are progressing.

The department also maintains comfort stations (restrooms) at the following
locations: Chandler Hovey Park, Devereux Beach, Crocker Park, Fort Sewall,
Reynolds Playground, Gerry Playground, Gatchells Playground, and Shore Lea
Nature Center on a seasonal basis with Water & Sewer costs, cleaning and cleaning
supplies, and paper goods come from the department budget. $2000 is currently
spent for doggie bags for Chandler Hovey Park, Crocker Park, and Fort Sewall.
Dogs are prohibited from all athletic fields and children’s playgrounds; all other
Parks require dogs to be on a leash and dog waste is required by law to be disposed




                                       228
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



of in proper safe receptacles designed for fecal waste disposal (not public trash
barrels).

Capital improvements for buildings

The Town approved funding for repairs and improvements of the Forestry garage
(28 Vine Street). Irving Plumbing of Lynn submitted the winning bid for a new gas
heating system which has been installed with assistance from the plumbing
inspector and Keyspan. Other remodeling will progress in accordance with the plans
drafted by Bill Yuhas.

The Seaside grandstand continues to be a target for numerous incidents of
vandalism, resulting in the department having to frequently conduct maintenance
and repairs to the facility. Plans to remodel the restrooms are still in the works; a
donation fund has been created at the Selectmen’s office to raise funding for the
project. New wire screening was installed to replace the vandalized cloth screening
and seating and shingles have been replaced.

Under the direction of Mike Lane with assistance from Harry Gunderson, the 2007
beach season opened with DAYCO Construction completing the remodeling of the
Devereux Beach restrooms after many delays and the new Garfield Pavilion being
completed by Marblehead Marine and available for usage.

Leased Properties

The Devereux Beach Concession Stand is now operated by Mr. Paul Petersiel doing
business as “Lime Rickey’s” in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 30 with
permission of the Board of Selectmen and the Recreation & Parks Commission and
enjoyed a successful first season.

The Gerry Playground house (A.K.A the Stramski house) lease still remains vacant.
The Marblehead Rowing Club has rented garage space to store their rowing skulls
on a yearly lease. The Commission continues to seek usage of the facility
compatible with recreation & park programs and policies.

Anticipated capital improvements

   Repairs and restroom remodeling at Crocker Park.
   Updated provisions for handicap access at Fort Sewall.
   The sale of the house and lot at Orne Playground on Fader Place.




                                        229
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



     Expand shared equipment storage & maintenance facilities at Waterside
      Cemetery

Equipment Replacement and Seasonal Staffing

The department received new replacements of the Park 4 Van, an aerator, an over-seeder,
and a trimmer mower with a collection unit. We also procured a reconditioned mower-
tractor for reels and back up parts for the Jacobson F-10.

The ongoing problem of finding reliable seasonal maintenance staff from April through
November continues as college students are only available during the summer school
break leaving us short staffed during those spring and fall months when we need them the
most.

Facility & Grounds Landscape Maintenance Program

The Parks and Forestry staff is responsible for the landscape maintenance, mowing,
trimming of trees and shrubs, and removal of litter on the following properties
(Note: “*” denotes athletic fields requiring continuous mowing, lining, and
reconditioning for the Town’s sports programs):

    Recreation, Parks, &       Cemetery & Historic
                                                                Public Landings:
    Forestry Properties:             Grounds:
      Castle Rock Park         Cressy Street Cemetery            Barnegat trash
    Chandler Hovey Park        Green Street Cemetery          Clark Landing trash
     Community Center          Hooper Tomb Cemetery             Cloutmans trash
        Crocker Park           Harris Street Cemetery        Commercial Street trash
      Devereux Beach          Old Burial Hill Cemetery         Parker Yard trash
         Fort Beach                 Redd’s Pond               Tucker Wharf Trash
                                Waterside Cemetery
        Fountain Park           (when requested by
                               Cemetery Department)
      Gerry Playground        School Dept. properties:       Other Public Grounds:
                                Beacon/Green Street
    * Gatchells Playground                                          Fort Sewall
                                       reserve
     * Hobbs Playground             Bell School                 Gas House Beach
      * Orne Playground            Coffin School               Grace Oliver’s Beach
    * Reynolds Playground          Eveleth School                 Red Steps Way
        * Seaside park              Gerry School              Fort Sewall turnaround
        Memorial Park              Glover School                Brookhouse Drive




                                         230
                           MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                                * Marblehead High
 Devereux Beach garage                                    Gallison Avenue Way
                                      School
Vine St. Forestry Garage       Lincoln Ave. reserve          Gatchells Green
                               * The Village Middle
                                                            Lovis Cove Beach
                                      School
                               * The Veterans Junior
                                   High School
                                                              Conservation
                              Other Public Building’s
         Other:                                            Commission Lands
                                    properties:
                                                           (As labor permits):
                                                           Bicycle, Exercise, &
  All public shade trees            Abbot Hall
                                                            conservation trails
Traffic Islands (donated)        Abbot Library               Robinson Farm
 All Public litter barrels         Gun House             Shore Lea Nature Center
                               Mary Alley Building             Forest River
                                 OKO Building                Hawthorn Pond
                                Old Town House                Steer Swamp
                                 Powder House                Wyman Woods
                               Tower Way Grounds                Ware Pond

Winter and spring 2007 Recreation Programs

The department continues the successful ski program which took two busses with
5th to 12th graders and volunteer chaperones under the planning and supervision of
Recreation Supervisor Mike Lane to Attitash/Bear Peak in Bartlett, N.H. leaving at
6:00 AM on five Saturdays and returning at approximately 7:00 PM. The ski
program continues to be a popular youth program.

The department also continues to offer the family skating program at Salem State
College for two hours on Sunday afternoons from October through February, and
programs at the community center and other Town facilities including: A Saturday
morning Youth Basketball program, a winter pre-school “indoor park”, after school
programs including fencing, lacrosse, “Know Atom” science classes, piano lessons,
and youth badminton classes. Evenings features dog obedience on Tuesdays, adult
badminton on Wednesdays, and adult pickup volleyball on Mondays and Thursdays.
Every second Thursday of each month offers a psychic session.

Summer and fall 2007 Recreation Programs




                                       231
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



The department continues providing numerous summer outdoor programs (with rain
locations provided) including the well attended Gerry (ages 5-7), Reynolds (ages 8-
10), and Gatchells’ (ages 11-12) playground programs, and this year a new
“extended day” option was added. Other programs offered include Field trips to
Canobie Lake Park, Water Country, Boston Harbor, and a camping overnight; The
Magician’s football, field hockey, basketball, baseball, and lacrosse clinics and the
Roger Day baseball camp at various fields around town; Tennis lessons and Girl’s
evening basketball at Seaside Park; youth sailing classes at Gerry Playground; a
soccer and badminton camp at both Gatchells’ Green and the Community Center,
and kayaking instruction at Riverhead Beach. Indoor programs in summer and fall
at the Community Center continues to offer science classes, pet dog training, adult
volleyball, psychic sessions, fencing, and piano lessons.

Urban Forestry Program

Public shade trees and shrubs located on public ways are under the jurisdiction of
the Tree Warden and the four person tree crew.

Marblehead has many older trees, some that have lived past their expected maturity.
The department strives to identify and reduce tree hazards that may result in injuries
or damage to people or property and along public ways including the cemeteries,
parks, and school grounds.

The department receives in excess of 1500 telephone calls annually from residents
regarding tree matters; those matters deemed as hazardous receive priority while
routine pruning and plantings are scheduled according to staff availability. Problems
with tree roots buckling sidewalks and fouling electrical wiring have shown a noted
increase in the past year.

During 2007 an estimated 600 trees were removed after being evaluated as
dangerous, dead or dying by the department. While replacement plantings of some
trees has been ongoing, location, site conditions, and tree types have not in many
cases been conducive to trees being replanted in the same locations as the old trees
since they would become more of a liability than an asset.

We still hope to update the Town’s tree inventory which was left incomplete in
1992 and is not in a G.I.S. compatible format. We would like to create a tree
inspection system that breaks the town into quarters with one quarter being
inspected per year using this updated G.I.S. compatible tree inventory. This system




                                        232
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



could be combined with sidewalk repair requests at the Highway Department when
tree roots cause sidewalk damage.

The last Town Meeting approved a By-law specific to tree policies in accordance
with Chapter 87 of the Massachusetts State General Laws regarding public shade
trees which became enforceable in October of 2007. Assistant Town Counsel Lisa
Mead was of great assistance with Town Administrator Tony Sasso and the Board
of Selectmen to bring this policy to fruition. The development of a tree manual
specific to the removal, pruning, care, and planting of public trees which will be
comprehensive and consider the overall tree canopy is ongoing.

The Department of Conservation and Recreation under the Commissioner of
Environmental Affairs in the State Government has programs for communities to
obtain grants and matching grants for urban forestry care of which we hope to take
advantage. The definition of Urban and Community Forestry is professional
management “for planting, preservation, and maintenance of a municipality’s public
tree resources in partnership with residents and community institutions”.

The department also looks to work closely with the Marblehead Conservancy and
the Chamber of Commerce regarding 20/20 projects for the business district.

Marblehead continues to apply and qualify for the National Tree City USA as
designated by the National Arbor Day Foundation. We celebrate Arbor Day in
conjunction with Earth Day at the end of April.

The department purchases tree seedlings from the Massachusetts Tree Wardens and
Foresters Association. Approximately 400 seedlings were planted in open and
conservation areas by the Marblehead Conservancy and other volunteers including
the Boy and Girl Scouts and Charter School and Middle School student volunteers.

The volume of requests for tree removals and/or pruning reflects the need to
continue our strong working relationship with the Light Department, especially
when storms create tree emergencies.

Department Staff

We want to thank the Department’s employees for their dedication to our Town’s
natural resources and recreation opportunities. The following worked for the
Department during the past year:
   R. T. Hamond, Department Superintendent and Tree Warden




                                      233
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



   C. Michael Lane, Recreation Supervisor and Assistant Superintendent
   Ric Reynolds, Senior Clerk
   Peter R. James, Working Foreman/Building and Grounds
   Walter Leszczynski, Heavy Equipment Operator
   Robert Gillis, Parks Maintenance Craftsman
   Greg Snow, Maintenance Craftsman/Mechanic
   Reginald Berry, Mike Attridge, Mike Atkins, and Brad                    Delisle,
    Maintenance/Groundskeepers.
   Douglas D. Gordon, Working Foreman/Tree Surgeon
   Ed Park and Art Beauchesne, Tree Climbers/Forestry Maintenance

There are many instructors who work in the various recreation programs,
playground, and other leisure services within the department in the parks and at the
Community Center. Also, there are seasonal maintenance workers and caretakers
for the parks, and summer maintenance workers and lifeguards at Devereux Beach.

The Commission would like to thank the staffs of the Highway, Health,
Harbormaster, Building, Schools, Municipal Light, Cemetery, Police, Fire, and
Water/Sewer Departments for their continued support and the Town Administrator,
Town Clerk’s, and Selectmen’s office for their assistance during the past year.

Every year there are many who volunteer with maintenance and recreation
programs for the Town. The Commission wants to express its thanks on behalf of
all the residents who benefit from the countless hours volunteered, making
Marblehead a great place to live.

Respectfully submitted,

Sam Ganglani, Chairman
Derek Norcross
Chip Osborne
Linda Rice-Collins
Dave Rodgers

R. Thomas Hamond
Superintendent
Recreation, Parks, & Forestry
Town of Marblehead




                                       234
         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




      SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES

The following work was completed for the year ending Dec 31, 2007:

Scales Sealed:                                42
Scales Condemned:                              0
Gasoline/Diesel pumps Sealed:                  6
Gasoline/Diesel pumps NOT Sealed:              0
Scales Rechecked After Repairs                 0
Consumer Complaints Investigated               0
Report Letter Written                          0
Apothecary Sets Sealed                         3

Respectfully submitted,


David C Rodgers
Sealer




                          235
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                       SHELLFISH CONSTABLES

Devereux, Tucker’s, and Goldthwait beaches were opened for the harvesting of surf
clams in November. The Board of Health supplied the MA Division of Marine
Fisheries with historical water quality reports. As of the writing of this report there
were 39 licenses issued to date for the 07/08 season. There were 34 licenses issued
during the 06/07 season. The clamming season in Marblehead is during the months
of September through April. The areas may open later and close temporarily during
the season when environmental issues may change.

Monitoring diggers, checking water quality and testing of the clams is ongoing by
the MA Division of Marine Fisheries and local residents that have volunteered to
serve as Shellfish Constables. The Town Clerk and her staff have been very diligent
in processing the paperwork for the State and issuing licenses.

         Respectfully submitted,

         Wayne O. Attridge, Chief Shellfish Constable

         Constables:
         Douglas Aikman
         John Gregory Attridge
         Raymond Bates Jr.
         Harry Christensen, Esq.
         David Donahue
         Deborah Fadden
         Jeffrey Flynn
         R. Thomas Hamond
         Susan Hogan




                                         236
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




           TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION

The Marblehead Task Force Against Discrimination was formed by the Board of
Selectmen in July 1989 in response to the desecration of Temple Emanu-el and the
Jewish Community Center of the North Shore. Our town leaders, recognizing that
prejudice and bigotry are community-wide concerns, established the Task Force to
educate and protect its citizens from further incidences of crimes of hate.

The committee, appointed yearly by the Marblehead selectmen, is co-chaired by
Anne Marie Hunter and Helaine Hazlett. The appointees include members of the
clergy, educators, students and concerned citizens. At this time, there are currently
vacancies on the committee for a law enforcement officer and an attorney. The
Task Force meets in open session throughout the year to discuss concerns raised by
the selectmen, committee members and/or citizens.

During the past year, the committee has been both pro-active and re-active. It has
responded to two separate incidents of vandalism and prejudice. The first occurred
in the early spring on the railroad bed behind Fox Run Lane where slogans and
graffiti were painted on a large rock. The second incident was to the Star of the Sea
Christmas Fair banner that, also, was vandalized. Both incidents received
appropriate recognition by the police, the task force, and the press.

Under the auspices of the Anti Defamation League’s No Place for Hate®, founded
in 1999, the committee sponsored or co-sponsored several projects and programs.
The Academy Award winning movie “Crash” was shown with discussion
following. Along with the Marblehead High School’s Save Darfur Committee, lawn
signs were sold to help support and raise awareness about the horrific situation
there. Again, the committee was a sponsor of the annual ADL North Shore
Advisory Committee’s Interfaith Seder.

In 2009 the Marblehead Task Force Against Discrimination will celebrate twenty
years of existence and plans are being made to have a special event recognizing the
occasion. Throughout the years, the Task Force’s mission has remained consistent.
Its purpose is to help provide a safe community, celebrating diversity, where all
individuals regardless of race, religion, sexual orientation or ethnic background are
welcomed. Marblehead is a place where discrimination will not be tolerated.




                                        237
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Respectfully submitted,

Helaine R. Hazlett
Reverend Anne Marie Hunter
Co-chairs
Rabbi Jonas Goldberg

Isabel Katzman
Harvey Michaels
Jay Morrison
Barbara Schneider
Deacon John E. Whipple




                                   238
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                            VETERANS’ AGENT
I hereby submit my report as Veterans Agent, Flag Officer, Veterans Burial Officer,
and Veterans Graves Registration Officer for the year ending Dec 31, 2007.

My number one duty is to the Veterans of the Town of Marblehead and their
families. I continue to attend State and Federal training sessions and seminars to
remain updated in all aspects of Veterans Affairs.

Office records for 2007 indicate that three Veterans or their families filed for
benefits under Mass General Laws, Chapter 115. This chapter of the law provides
assistance to Veterans in need.

Requests for assistance in filing for Department of Veterans Affairs Benefits
(Federal) remained high. This office has encouraged enrollment in the VA
Healthcare System. Many Marblehead Veterans have taken advantage of this health
benefit, which includes obtaining daily prescription drugs for $8.00 per month for
each medication. Casket Flags and Grave Markers were the principal Death
Benefits filed for with the Department of Veterans Affairs.

A total of 59 Marblehead Veterans were laid to rest between Nov 11, 2006 and Nov
11, 2007. Eighty percent of these men and women were World War II Veterans.
As a town and country we have an obligation to this generation of Americans.
Service to our Veterans and their families remains the most important goal of this
office.

I would like to thank Chaplain Lyman Rollins VFW Post 2005, the American
Legion Post 32, and the US Submarine Veterans, Marblehead Base for their
assistance in the affairs of this office in 2007. I would also like to thank
Marbleheader Karen Martin for her work in Memorial Park.

Respectfully submitted,

David C Rodgers, Veterans Agent




                                       239
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                WATER AND SEWER COMMISSION

The Marblehead Water and Commission is pleased to submit its report for calendar
year 2007. There have been many construction projects performed, and others were
in the design stage during the past year. These will be discussed in the individual
department reports.

Over the past year, the Water Department has continued with its annual inspection
of hydrants, system flushing, painting and hydrant replacement program. In the
area of water quality, all necessary sampling was performed, along with our
backflow testing program and investigation of customer complaints. Our
maintenance crews have been busy with water main repairs, and the installation of
both new and replacement water services. Meter personnel have performed all
necessary water meter reading, testing, installation, leak detection and hundreds of
mark outs.

The Water Department has continued with the upgrading of existing metering
equipment with the installation of over 800 new radio reading devices; bringing this
project to approximately 25% complete. Our new computer operated telemetering
and remote operation (SCADA) equipment was used for the first time last summer.
This equipment allows for more instant information monitoring flow, pressure and
tank levels and much more. We also finished the second phase of the water main
replacement on Harbor Avenue in late July of 2007. The next phase is ready to be
bid after Town Meeting to complete the replacement of the oldest mains in Town in
either the fall of 2008, or most likely in the spring of 2009.

The Sewer Department has continued with its scheduled maintenance of over 100
miles of sewer lines. These projects include line cleaning, root treatment, and
support for contract crews performing in-depth studies of our sanitary sewers and
storm drainage systems. The Commission’s 28 sewer pumping stations continue to
be inspected daily.

The Sewer Department has awarded a contract for the replacement of the May St.
pump station. Work should be well underway by the middle of April for an early
summer completion. Other projects include televised inspection of manholes and
sewer lines in various areas of Town.

The Drain Department has continued with its annual maintenance program. All
major drain outlets are cleaned when necessary, and tree roots are removed. On the
construction side, we added over 20 new structures, while rebuilding more than 30.




                                       240
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



We have continued to add to the system to accommodate sump pumps, and added
inlets to help reduce flooding during times of heavy rainfall. We are continuously
re-evaluating the needs of the system based upon its ability to react to different
types of rainfall events.

Our office staff continues to be extremely busy processing over 30,000 bills
annually, while collecting over $7,000,000 in revenue. Other projects completed by
the office include maintaining records to house connection cards, construction
planning, scheduling appointments, providing information for hundreds of
individual mark outs, and most importantly responding to customer needs.

The Commission wishes to welcome three new members to its team: Krissey
Regan to the office staff; Eric Hildonen to the Sewer Department; and Matthew
Thibault to the Water Department.

Finally, we would like to thank other departments, and especially our own
employees who have helped us to complete another successful year of service to the
Town.

Respectfully submitted,

Dana E. Snow
Superintendent



Marblehead Water and Sewer Commission
F. Carlton Siegel, P. E., Chairman
Emerson F. Brown, Vice Chairman
Wilbur E. Bassett, P. E.
Thomas M. Carroll
Bradford N. Freeman
Telephone:         (781) 631-0102
FAX Number: (781) 631-2670

Dana E. Snow                       Charles R. McCollum
Superintendent                     Assistant Superintendent

Water Department Employees:                 Sewer Department Employees:
William Haskell, Spec. Labor III            John Belanger, Spec. Labor III




                                      241
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Gregory Burt, Water Tech.                 Mark Fulton, Mech. TV Spec.
John Bradshaw, Mech. Pipefit.             James Johnson, Mech. Pipefit. II
Michael Marsters, Mech. Pipefit.          Jonathan Morley, Mech. Pipefit.
Johann Gebhard, Hvy. Eq. Op.              Robert Landry, Mech. Pipefit.
Corey Smith, Spec. Labor I                Brian Conrad, Hvy. Eq. Op.
David Cameron, Spec. Labor I              Stephen Hull, Spec. Labor I
Matthew Thibault, Spec. Labor I           Eric Hildonen, Spec. Labor I

Office Employees:                         Drain Department Employees:
Linda Matthews, Office Mgr.               Kevin Wilson, Spec. Labor III
Krissey Regan, Billing Tech.              William Larios, Hvy. Eq. Op.
Jean MacAskill, Special Clerk


                       WATER DEPARTMENT REPORT

        1. Water Breaks                                    10
        2. Damaged Hydrants Repaired or Replaced           24
        3. New Water Services and Renewals                 14
        4. Inside Valves Replaced                          31
        5. New Water Mains or Extensions                   3
        6. Water Services Repaired                         24
        7. New Sprinkler Lines Added                       1
        8. Frozen Water Meters                             26
        9. Hydrants Painted                                200
        10. Trouble Calls                                  30


                      SEWER DEPARTMENT REPORT

         1. Sewer Lines Cleaned                            36,425 Ft.
         2. Drain Lines Cleaned                            5,600 Ft.
         3. Vacuum Dig Repairs                             125
         4. Water Used                                     135,000 Gal
         5. Lines Televised – Sewer                        800 Ft.
         6. Service Repaired – Permits                     26
                 New Services – Permits                    24
                 Construction Repairs                      32
         7. Manholes Repaired                              25
         8. Pumping Stations Maintained & Repaired         28




                                    242
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



          9. Vehicles Maintained                                23
         10. Dig Safe Mark Outs                                 1,763
         11. Oil Spill in Sewer                                 6
         12. Feet of 8 Inch Pipe Treated for Roots              7,575 Ft.


                         DRAIN DEPARTMENT REPORT

          1. Catch Basins Repaired                         34
          2. New Catch Basins                              12
          3. Manhole Resets                                6
          4. New Manholes                                  9
          5. Culvert Repair                                1
          6. Sump Pump Connections                         6
          7. Feet of New Pipe                              1,000 Ft.
          8. Extensive Open Ditch Work from Park Lane to Shorewood Rd.
         9. Regular Inspection and Maintenance of All Town Outfalls and Open
                     Ditches
         10. All Drain Work Hot Topped or Loamed and Seeded

                     SOUTH ESSEX SEWERAGE DISTRICT

As the Town’s representative to the South Essex Sewerage District (SESD), I am
pleased to submit the following report for calendar year 2007.

This past year proved to be quite uneventful. During this period, the facility has
continued to meet all required compliance standards for a secondary waste water
treatment facility. While saying this, plant personnel have continued to fine tune all
facets of the operation; all of this with the idea to provide the best treatment
possible at the least cost to you, the ratepayer.

Once again, we are pleased to say that we have been able to maintain our budget
within the 2 ½% cap, averting any need to address the need for an override.

At this time, I wish to recognize all the employees at SESD, from the newest
laborer, our clerical staff, our operation’s division and also our administration for a
very productive and successful year.

As the South Essex Sewerage District, we look forward to the continued operation
of a clean, safe and efficient facility.




                                         243
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




As always, we are pleased to answer any questions as they relate to the operation of
SESD.

Respectfully submitted,

Dana E. Snow
SESD Representative




                                       244
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Prepared by: Brian McNamee 1/10/08
                                                                                   SESD
Treasurer
I. REVENUE          METHOD OF                    %          AMOUNT         SESD
DESCRIPTION         APPORTIONMENT                TOTAL                     TOTAL
Assessment          FY07 Budgeted                  8.33%.     $2,138,105      25,672,852
Revenue             Apportionment
Member Refunds      Actual                         14.97%     ($427,000)      (2,853,000)
Paid

Chemical            Actual                         7.90%        $14,140            179,099
Reimbursement.
Sewer Rate Relief   Fixed Amount Budgeted          7.69%        $51,872            674,569
                    for Marblehead Utilization
                    Balance Apportioned
                    based on Appor. Agree.
Septage Revenue     Actual                         9.76%        $19,490          199,769
MWPAT Loan          Based on Cost                  7.96%       $683,470        8,589,806
Subsidy             Apportionment
                    Agreements
Interest Income     Actual & District              8.07%        $59,803            741,215
Investment Income   Apportions Based on
                    Average Monthly UFB
                    Balance
Misc. Revenue and   Actual                         8.40%         $2,530             30,115
Other Income
Total Revenues                                     7.65%      $2,542,410      33,234,423

II Expenses         Method of                    %          Amount         SESD
Description         Apportionment                Total                     Total
O & M 2000          Based on Percentage Flow       0.00%              $0         126,861
O & M 3000          Based on Percentage Flow       0.00%              $0         234,431
O & M 4000          Based on Percentage Flow       0.00%              $0          30,279
O & M 5000          Based on Percentage Flow       0.00%              $0         463,893
O & M 5001          Based on Percentage Flow       0.00%              $0               0
O & M 6000          Based on Percentage Flow       8.43%         $42,603         505,109
O & M 6001          Based on Percentage Flow       0.00%              $0            0.00
O & M 7000          Based on Percentage Flow       8.71%        $285,472       3,278,345
                    3 Yr. Avg. Flow & Solids
O & M 7001          Based on Percentage Flow       0.00%              $0                0
                    3 Yr. Avg. Flow & Solids
O & M 7050          Based on Cost                  0.00%              $0                0
                    Apportionment
                    Agreements
O & M 7100          Based on Percentage of         0.00%              $0           10,862
                    Flow




                                            245
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



O & M 7200           Based on Percentage of        0.00%         $0       9,525
                     Flow
O & M 7300           Based on Percentage of       100.00%     $3,835      3,835
                     Flow
O & M 7400           Based on Percentage of        0.00%         $0      23,461
                     Flow
O & M 7500           Based on Percentage of        0.00%         $0       8,595
                     Flow
O & M 7600           Based on Percentage of        0.00%         $0      30,438
                     Flow
O & M 7601           Based on Percentage of        0.00%         $0         0.00
                     Flow
O & M 8010           Based on Percentage of        8.71%    $117,234   1,346,310
                     Flow
                     3 Yr. Avg. Flow & Solids
O & M 8011           Based on Percentage of        0.00%         $0         0.00
                     Flow
                     3 Yr. Avg. Flow & Solids
O & M 8020           Based on Percentage of        7.90%    $159,967   2,026,150
                     Flow
                     3 Yr. Avg. Flow & Solids
O & M 8021           Based on % of Flow            0.00%         $0         0.00
                     3 Yr. Avg. Flow & Solids
O & M 8030           Based on % of Flow            8.43%     $33,774     400,42
                     3 Yr. Avg. Flow & Solids
O & M 8031           Based on % of Flow            0.00%         $0         0.00
                     3 Yr. Avg. Flow & Solids
O & M 8040           Based on % of BOD             9.76%    $171,633   1,759,180
O & M 8041           Based on % of BOD             0.00%          $0        0.00
O & M 8060           Based on Weighted %           8.78%    $332,450   3,785,842
                     Of BOD/TSS
O & M 8061           Based on Weighted %           0.00%         $0         0.00
                     Of BOD/TSS
O & M 9000           Based on % of Flow           100.0%    $129,149     129,149
Special Assessment   Actual                        0.00%          $0    5,231.00
Principal-           Based on Cost                 7.68%    $497,457   6,474,608
Long Term            Apportionment
                     Agreements
Interest –           Based on Cost                 7.68%    $214,190   2,787,768
Long Term            Apportionment
                     Agreements
MWPAT Loan           Based on Cost                 7.96%    $683,470   8,589,806
Loan Subsidy         Apportionment
                     Agreements
MWPAT Admin-         Based on Cost                 7.68%     $11,949    155,537
istrative Fees       Apportionment
                     Agreements
Interest-            Based on Cost                 0.00%         $0         0.00




                                            246
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Short Term          Apportionment
                    Agreements
Lieu of Taxes       Based on Cost                11.25%     $56,266           500,000
                    Apportionment
                    Agreements




Intergovernmental   Based on Cost                0.00%           $0              0.00
Fines               Apportionment
                    Agreements
Stabilization       Based on % of 3 Yr. Avg.     0.00%           $0              0.00
                    of Flow & Solids
Transfer to CPF’s   Actual                        0.00%           $0           0.00
Misc. Expense       Actual                        0.00%           $0           0.00
Total Expenses                                    8.38%   $2,739,448     32,685,642



III EXCESS (DEFICIENCY) REVENUE OVER EXPENSES                    ($197,037)




                                           247
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                      ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS

The Zoning Board of Appeals met in regular bi-weekly session in 2007, conducting
103 advertised hearings, mostly for dimensional relief, granting 86 applications,
denying 7, 10 withdrawn. One 40B application is yet pending. The Board also
conducted non-advertised administrative hearings for minor modifications to
previous special permits.

The Board members are: Barbara Shefftz, David Bennet, Alan Lipkind, Karen
Tenenbaum and William R. Moriarty. The alternates are Christopher Casey,
Andrea Papanek, Betsy Burke-Jacobson and most recently Paige Hintlian. Special
thanks to Kent Hallawell for many years of irreplaceable service as an alternate
member.

Assisting the Board were Andrea Flaxer, Town Engineer Doug Saal, Town Planner
Becky Curran, and members of the Building Commissioner’s Office who wish to
remain anonymous. Thanks to Steve Ware for cheerful custodial support and Red
Sox reports.

Respectfully submitted,

William R. Moriarty
Chair




                                      248
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                         SCHOOL DEPARTMENT


                   MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE

                 Amy Drinker                Term Expires May, 2010
                 Robert Dana                Term Expires May, 2008
                 Patricia Blackmer          Term Expires May, 2008
                 Jonathan Lederman          Term Expires May, 2010
                 James Dearborn             Term Expires May, 2009

                                ORGANIZATION
                         Chairperson      Amy Drinker
                         Vice-Chairperson Rob Dana
                         Secretary        Patricia Blackmer

                              REGULAR MEETINGS

The regular meetings of the School Committee are held in the High School Library
bi-monthly at 7:30 p.m. on the first and third Thursdays of the months except in
July and August.

                   MARBLEHEAD SCHOOLS ON THE WEB

Additional information about all Marblehead Public Schools programs can be found
on the internet site at: http://www.marblehead.com/schools

                        ADMISSIONS REQUIREMENTS

Entrance Age: Any child who will be six years of age on or before August 31 of that
school year may be admitted to the primary unit during the month of September. No
child ineligible for the primary unit in September shall be admitted during the
school year. The minimum age for entering the kindergarten shall be five years on
or before August 31 of that school year.

Children entering school for the first time are required to present a birth certificate,
a physical exam (including vision screening for distance visual acuity and
stereopsis) completed within 12 months prior to the date of school entry, and
documentation of immunizations. All children must be immunized against polio;




                                         249
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (DTaP); measles, mumps and rubella (MMR); varicella
(chicken pox); and hepatitis B. Exemptions from immunizations are allowed under
Commonwealth of Massachusetts Law for either religious or medical reasons, both
of which require documentation.

                           SIGNALS FOR NO SCHOOL

No school announcements will be made over radio, television channels 4, 5 and 7,
on the Marblehead Public Schools website at http://www.marblehead.com/schools
as well as through email and phone messages with the AlertNow system.
Telephone calls should not be made to the Police or Fire Departments.

Since widely varying conditions in the various parts of Marblehead may make it
difficult to reach decisions about inclement weather conditions, parents are
requested to exercise their discretion in regard to their own children's attendance.

                            2007-08 SCHOOL HOURS
                    High School         7:55 a.m. to 2:37 p.m.
                    Middle School       8:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
                    Village School      8:00 a.m. to 2:15 p.m.
                    Glover, Gerry, Bell 8:15 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
                    Eveleth, Coffin     8:05 a.m. to 2:20 p.m.




                   SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS

          My term as Superintendent of Marblehead’s Public Schools began on July
1, 2007. Marblehead’s school system was already strong when I arrived in town. I
felt the district was poised to embrace the Instructional Vision that I articulated in a
five year “Instructional Focus” plan delivered to the School Committee and the
entire school community last summer.

         The educational vision for the district is dedicated to increasing student
achievement while developing attitudes toward learning that will provide every
student with the “Critical Spirit” to solve complex problems and make innovative
and creative decisions necessary for them to be successful in college and the work
world thereafter–our students need these skills in order to successfully compete in
the world regardless of their chosen vocation. More about the MPS Instructional




                                         250
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Focus can be read on the School District’s web page                                at
www.marblehead.com/schools/superintendent by clicking on the left links.

         I came to Marblehead having served as an International School
Headmaster both in China and the U.K. Previously, I served separate stints as
Superintendent of Schools in high performing districts and I helped start a Nano
Technology business in Vermont. My current “Focus” on instruction and student
achievement has evolved as a result of these experiences. I believe we have high
performing students, excellent teachers and strong teacher leadership potential, a
supportive community and a fiscally sound base in our town. These early beliefs
have been reinforced. This is a special town with a high performing school system
for which I am proud to provide educational leadership.

         I have submitted an FY09 budget proposal of $27,873,862, which is
$1,155,898 more than the FY08 $26,656,436. The net operations and maintenance
budget increase, after applying budget offsets for Circuit Breaker, Special Education
Tuition Revenue and other revolving accounts is $1,010,523 or an increase of
+3.94%. This net increase to the School Department operations and maintenance
budget is in line with the guidelines articulated in the December 18, 2007 Town
Financial outlook presentation and covers contractual obligations.

          We have re-allocated the use of funds expended in FY08 to reinforce our
strategic “Instructional Focus” for FY09. The following are budget priorities for
FY09:

Level Services Budget
The first of our two primary budget goals is a level services budget. Our staffing
levels remain the same asFY08. That is, the revised programs and staff positions
replacing our FY08 programs require no new funding. Anticipated revenue to fund
the FY09 Superintendent’s Budget is based on conservative estimates of available
revenue. Again, this budget covers all contractual and legal obligations.

Implementation of our MPS Instructional Focus
The second of our two primary budget goals is the extension of our Year-1 Focus
and the implementation of the Year-2 Focus. We anticipate completing the Year-1
Focus (18 month period) by January 2009. Concurrently, we will implement Year-2
of our Focus beginning in September 2008. A newly revised administration
structure will provide the foundation and leadership for Focus implementation
success through FY12. These changes allow us to implement our “Thinking Skills
Strategy”, as well as a “Three Pronged Instructional Leadership Model.” This model




                                        251
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



includes the Principal as “Instructional Leader” assisted by a curriculum director
and assigned teacher leadership. This structure will have greater impact on
instructional behavior of all teacher teams. The three pronged approach will replace
our current single dimensional instructional leadership, i.e. curriculum directors,
model at no increase to the overall budget.

Program offerings reflecting our focus for FY09 are as follows:
    • Explicit reading and writing instructional programs Grades K-3
    • International Baccalaureate Program (MHS) planning costs
    • Instructional Focus Professional Development programs partially funded in
        the budget and through grants. i.e., Skillful Teacher Training, Philosophy,
        Responsive Classroom, Socratic Questioning and Argumentative Literacy

Village School (upper elementary School) Programs and Class Size Focus:
From April 2007 through October of 2008, close to 100 students returned to the
Marblehead Public Schools, many of them from the Charter School. It is incumbent
upon us to carefully monitor class size at both the Village and Veterans Schools, as
we project that these students will stay in our system. Two additional fourth grade
teachers have been added for Village to give us a student-teacher ratio of less than
20 to 1. Additional sections (.33) of specialist teachers will be secured to preserve
the core team schedule, allowing time for teachers to meet at grade level and to
review student work and prescribe best instructional practices to improve student
achievement. We will maintain our Chinese Mandarin Language Instruction during
EDU periods at the Village School but in addition, we will add Spanish Language
instruction to our 6th Grade curriculum (.4 FTE). We plan to add Spanish Language
instruction to Grades 5 and Grade 4 respectively over the following 2 years.
Depending on the availability of new money, we will add (2.0) general education
tutors to our 5th grades.

Maintain Current Class Sizes and Improve Class Size Ratios:
Our current class sizes are on the outer edge of acceptability for our class size
guidelines in our elementary grades, the 8th grade, and in selected ELA classes in
the High School. As previously mentioned, this budget addresses 4th grade numbers
by adding two additional teachers in Grade 4. This action decreases our student
teacher ratio in 4th Grade to less than 20-1. Possible remedies for other class size
issues include using classroom tutors to support teacher delivery of instruction.
Review of class sizes below 12 students in English at the High School will give us
the opportunity to reduce student teacher ratios by reassigning teachers to Core
English classes. Non-fiction writing will be promoted for all grades.




                                        252
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Reallocation of 08 Budget and Grant Revenue to Fund 09 Programs:
Operational budgets are held to level funding in materials and supply categories,
administrators have reallocated funds within their budgets to fund instructional and
“focus” needs for the FY09 year. The High School has reallocated funds to add
$25,000.00 to the textbook account in order to fund a planned changed in the Social
Studies curriculum in 2009, which also reflects the State frameworks.
Administrators will discuss other examples, in detail, during their assigned budget
presentations to the School Committee.
We continue to rely on grants from the community and the generosity of our PTOs
to assist us, particularly in the area of Professional Development and creative and
innovative program areas. Organizations including The Friends of the Marblehead
Public Schools and TeamUp are instrumental in providing funding for innovative
programming for students, teachers, and the community.

Improve Instructional Programs in Specialized Areas of Student Interest and
Need:
This budget includes the addition of a Science and Engineering position at
Marblehead Veterans Middle School. This program will enhance our potential to
improve our students’ MCAS performance in Science at the Middle School. The
addition of a Marine Technology Program at Marblehead High School will provide
students with hands-on training in a trade that is close to the hearts of
Marbleheaders. This program will enhance our students’ skills and abilities in
Marine Technology.

It is my intention to return half time Library Assistant positions, cut from the budget
in FY08. Unfortunately, we cannot return full time aides to the libraries, but this
part-time addition will allow our Library media professionals the time to assist
students with specialized media instruction. We also plan to keep our libraries open
after school hours for student use as a result of the return of these positions.


Capital Issues will be dealt with through Warrant Articles and Building
Operation Improvements:
The energy reserve account is increased from its current $185,000.00 level to
$225,000.00 for FY09. Through the Town’s Rolling Stock Article, we plan to
purchase a new Special Education van allowing for substantial savings in the
operational budget. This one time purchase will save additionally in the operations
area in future budgets. Capital needs articles are explained very clearly in the FY08
School Committee report to the Town.




                                         253
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



          This year the School Committee and School Administration have tightened
their belts and worked hard to erase a potential deficit due to the influx of 100
Charter School students, and unexpected increases in “out of district” Special
Education tuition costs in excess of $200,000. We are committed to continue to
operate a high quality school district within the funds made available by the Town.
Our goal is to be good financial stewards of our resources, while providing for one
of the top school systems in Massachusetts.

                                                        Respectively submitted,
                                                        Dr. G. Paul Dulac
                                                        Superintendent of Schools


               MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE

          The School Committee’s primary responsibilities are the hiring and
supervision of the Superintendent of Schools, the creation and oversight of school
policy, and the review and approval of the school district’s budget. Appropriate
allocation of the school budget requires the School Committee to balance the needs
of individual students, schools, and programs with the overall direction and
priorities of the district. By listening to the Superintendent, the district’s educators,
students, parents, and the Marblehead community, the School Committee is able to
draw on excellent resources in order to make sound and sustainable decisions.

          Our new superintendent, G. Paul Dulac, Ed.D, began work in Marblehead
on July 1, 2007. He is an experienced superintendent with a proven record of
accomplishment as an educational leader in Massachusetts, New Hampshire,
England, and Beijing, China. His vision for our school district is geared toward
preparing our students for the rigors of the global economy that await them upon
graduation. The School Committee fully supports Dr. Dulac’s Instructional Focus
five-year plan, which emphasizes the development of critical and creative thinking
skills for all our students. Working within the budget, he has articulated a model of
administrative leadership that provides our teachers with appropriate professional
development, and our students with focused classroom instruction. His vision will
further distinguish Marblehead as one of the top performing school districts in
Massachusetts.

        From July 2005, through July 2007, the Marblehead Public Schools policy
manual was systematically reviewed and revised by the School Committee.
Recognizing that it is a valuable reference tool, it is now available online by visiting




                                          254
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



the district’s website: Marblehead.com/schools/. Users of the online manual can
search for policies by entering a key word such as “homework” or “field trip”; the
search results will list links for all policies containing the search word.

         The School Committee continues to take a leadership role in systematically
addressing the building needs of the district’s schools. With tremendous support
from the town, and the benefit of significant state reimbursement, the new
Marblehead High School opened in September 2002, and Marblehead Veterans
Middle School (grades 7 and 8) opened in September 2004. In addition to each
school’s educational components, the facilities provide community-use spaces
(auditoriums, gyms, libraries, cafeterias, fields) that are fully utilized by school and
town groups. Marblehead’s quality schools are a testament to the town’s
commitment to education. Working within the town’s fiscal means will remain a
core tenet in addressing the Kindergarten through Grade 6 schools’ capital needs.
The following projects are presently before the School Committee and the town for
consideration:

1) The Village School: The Facilities Master Plan Committee (FMPC) was
reconvened in 2003 to address the facility needs at the Village School. Its 2004
report detailed core needs (heating, electrical, plumbing, windows, roof) including
costs and proposed phasing for renovations. During the summer of 2004, as the
school’s grade configuration changed from grades 5-8 to grades 4-6, the work in the
building focused on classroom needs that could be addressed within the district’s
operating budget and through a focused fundraising effort. The replacement of core
systems was not feasible at that time. The heating system has been kept online over
the past six+ years through diligent maintenance, cannibalization of parts, and
creative trouble-shooting. However, this approach will not be sustainable for more
than one, or possibly two, more heating seasons. The time for addressing the Village
School’s core system capital needs has arrived.

2) Glover School: The Facilities Master Plan Committee was reconvened again in
February 2006, to assess the PreK-grade 6 school facilities and access state
reimbursement to address the facility needs. By this time, the state had reconfigured
its school building program and created the Massachusetts School Building
Authority (MSBA), assuring a funding source by dedicating one cent of the state
sales tax to pay for school building projects. As a result of the MSBA’s 2006
statewide review of all school buildings, the Gerry and Glover elementary schools
were designated as “Category Four” facilities (out of only 64 statewide), meaning
they are deemed by the state to be in the most need of immediate attention in order
to meet the state’s guidelines for school facilities. Adhering to the MSBA process,




                                         255
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Statements of Interest (SOIs) were submitted by the FMPC to the MSBA in the
spring of 2007, outlining facility issues at Glover, Eveleth (Glover’s sister school),
Gerry, Coffin (Gerry’s sister school), and Village school. The FMPC determined
that renovations at Bell school would be undertaken at a later date. In September
2007, the MSBA directed Marblehead (and all other municipalities submitting
multiple SOIs) to choose a single priority project for consideration. The FMPC and
the School Committee both agreed that of Marblehead’s two Category Four schools
(Glover and Gerry), Glover should be chosen based on its bigger student enrollment
(258 vs. 166), greater number of classrooms (twelve vs. eight), higher energy costs
(two buildings and core systems on the Glover site vs. one for Gerry), and the fact
that Glover’s principal is responsible for three buildings in two locations (two at
Glover and one at Eveleth). The cost of the Glover School project will be the
greatest; therefore accessing state funds to reduce the cost for Marblehead taxpayers
is a priority. In December 2007, Marblehead was informed by the MSBA that the
Glover School has been accepted as one of only 49 projects from across the state to
enter the Feasibility Phase of its process to access state reimbursement. During the
next six to twelve months, the School Committee will work with the state to identify
the most educationally sound and fiscally prudent solution to address Glover’s
building needs. The MSBA requires Marblehead to hire an Owner’s Project
Manager (OPM) to act as a building expert for the district, as well as a Feasibility
Designer, who will provide architectural expertise to the district throughout the
Feasibility phase. An initial outlay of local funds will be necessary to hire the OPM
and the Feasibility Designer, necessitating a request for funding to be brought to
Marblehead voters at Town Meeting. The state will contribute a portion of funding
for these services.

3) Gerry School: This facility, now 102 years old, is aging gracefully but showing
its age nonetheless. Work is necessary to address securing exterior wood
components, possibly re-pointing portions of the brick façade, and fixing leaks in
the slate roof. The school department will continue to be a responsible steward for
this school in anticipation of the time that its Category Four facility needs will be
submitted to the MSBA for state participation in identifying and paying for the
optimum facility configuration in order to meet the educational needs of
Marblehead’s elementary-age students.

         The Marblehead School Committee remains fully committed to providing
a quality education for Marblehead’s students, while delivering a fiscally
responsible budget to the taxpayers. Requests to Marblehead taxpayers for funding
to address additional capital needs are done so only after exhaustive planning and
consultation. Public education is a responsibility that challenges us to strive for




                                        256
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



excellence within our community’s fiscal means, accessing state funds whenever
possible.

Respectfully submitted,
Amy Drinker, Chairman
Marblehead School Committee




            MARBLEHEAD PUBLIC SCHOOLS PERSONNEL
                     ADMINISTRATION


Name                              Position                        Telephone
Dr. G. Paul Dulac                 Superintendent of Schools       639-3141
         Carmen Darisse           Administrative Assistant
David Keniston                    Business Manager                639-3140
         Kerry O’Shaughnessy      Personnel Secretary
         Nancy Smith              Payroll Secretary
         Mary Valle               Bookkeeper
         Kathy Gallagher          Accounts Payable Secretary
Robert Bellucci          Dir. of Student Services and             639-3148
                                  Program Accountability
         Joya Pezzuto             Secretary
John Ziergiebel          High School Principal                    639-3100
         Margo Ivers              Principal’s Secretary
Kathleen Duff            High School Assistant Principal          639-3100
Libby Moore              Middle School Principal, Interim         639-3120
         Donna Carey     Principal’s Secretary
Donald LeClerc           Village School Principal                 639-3159
         Melody Worthley          Principal’s Secretary
Danielle Cherry          Village School Assistant Principal       639-3159
Stephen Medeiros         Bell School Principal                    639-3170
         Evelyn Ellis             Principal’s Secretary
         Gayle Louisos            Principal’s Secretary
Sean Satterfield         Coffin/Gerry Schools Principal           639-3180




                                     257
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



         Linda Mills              Principal’s Secretary
Mary Devlin              Glover/Eveleth Schools Principal       639-3190
         Barbara Hawlena          Principal’s Secretary
Mike Plansky             Athletic Director                      639-3100
         Patricia Magee           Secretary
Kristina Kyles           METCO Coordinator                      639-3100
Beth Delforge            Fine Arts Curriculum Director          639-3100
Nancy Duclos             K-12 Math Director                     639-3100
Martha Bedrosian         K-12 Science Director                  639-3100
Katherine Scheidler      K-12 ELA Director                      639-3100
Michael Hanna            7-12 Coordinator of World Cultures     639-3100
Sue Gravel               K-6 ELA & World Cultures Coordinator   639-3159
Kathy Comeau             Technology Director                    639-3100
Paula Dobrow             Lead Nurse                             639-3147
David Dunkley            Director of Facilities                 639-3146
Philip Padulsky          Food Services Director                 639-3100
Karen Bourgeault         Grants Coordinator                     639-3148
Nancy Bryson             High School Sped Chairperson           639-3110
Maureen Smith            K-4 Sped Chairperson                   639-3148
Janine Glabicky          Village & Middle Sped Chairperson      639-3165
Nancy Charest            Early Childhood Coordinator            639-3170


                          FACULTY AND STAFF

Name                            Current Assignment

Adams, Diana                    Custodian
Addis, David                    Tutor, Sped, Math
Alla, Joyce                     Reading Tutor
Alling, Matthew                 Latin
Alves, Lisa                     Sped Para
Amsden, Valerie                 Tutor, Therapeutic
Anderson, Sharon                Para, 1:1 Sped
Anderson, Martha                Cafeteria
Anderson, Robin                 Elementary Social Worker
Anderson, Tracey                Gr 4
Andrews, Lisa                   Para, Integrated Kindergarten
Angelopolus, Adam               Gr 6
Angrisano, Susan                Para, Sped/Lunch




                                    258
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Anthony, Lionel               Math/Computers
Anthony, Nancy                Library Media Specialist
Antonucci, Deborah            Sped, 7-8 Lang Based Program
Apostoloff, Kimberly          Para, Sped
Armstrong, Patricia           Sped, Autism Specialist
Arnould, Carol                Gr 2
Arthur, Elena                 Nurse
Avalon, Sarah                 Gr 7 Math
Babbitt, Diane                Kindergarten
Bach, Janet                   Sped, Supported Gr 2
Bailey, Marguerite            Cafeteria
Balboni, Robert               Custodian
Barrell, Maribeth             Sped, Resource Room
Barrett, Melissa              Tutor, Reading
Barry, Judith                 Cafeteria
Bassila, Nicole               Para, Therapeutic
Bates, Douglas                Custodian
Beaulieu, Judith              Art
Beckman, Rachel               Gr 1 Supported Class
Berg, Robin                   Gr 2
Bergeron, Kerry               Gr 2
Bethune, Mary Ann             Secretary, HS Registrar
Bettencourt, Jason            Tutor, Sped
Bial, Lisa                    Tutor, 1:1 Sped
Billings, Jennifer            Gr 6
Bishop, Kathleen              Tutor, Sped Resource Room
Blake, Constance              Gr 1
Bonneau, Nicole               Social Worker
Bontaites, Anne               Secretary, HS
Booras, Donna                 Para, Lunch/Recess
Bosken, Lindsay               Gr 1
Bouchard, Jacqueline          Tutor, Gr 10/11 Resource Room
Bowden, Denise                Math, Gr 7
Bowen, Adam                   Gr 3
Bowen, Virginia               Library Media Specialist
Bowman, Eric                  Computer Support Specialist
Boyce, Leslie                 Para, Sped Supported Gr 3/Lunch
Bradford, Sarah               Tutor, 1:1 Sped
Bradshaw, Jodie               Tutor, Math
Brand, Rebecca                Gr 4




                                 259
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Breed, Nancy                  Para, Kdg./Lunch Para
Breed, Mary                   Phys Ed
Brenner-O'Sullivan, Nicole    Sped, STRIDES
Briggs, Joanne                Health
Brings, Janet                 Para, Sped
Brinton, Robert               Custodian
Bruett, Meghann               Gr 3
Bryne, Katherine              Chemistry
Buckley Uhrich, Diana         Nurse
Buganski, Melissa             Spanish
Buonopane, Susan              Sped, 8 Inclusion
Buonopane, Kathy              Computer Support Specialist
Burke, Kathleen               HS Senior Project Advisor/504 Coord.
Butters, Bryan                Social Studies
Buxbaum, Dawn                 Nurse
Cacciola, Mario               Social Studies
Calahan, Robin                Para, Sped/Lunch
Callaghan, Tawny              Gr 6
Campbell, Pamela              Para, Sped
Carey, Cathy                  Tutor, Sped, Resource Room
Carrancho, Michelle           French
Carroll, Linda                Para, Clerical
Castelli, Christine           Math
Castoldi, Catherine           Gr 9 Resource Room
Cecere, Michael               Phys Ed
Cefalo, Carla                 Health
Chalek, Wendy                 Tutor, Sped, Lang. Based
Chalifour, Edythe             Cafeteria
Chartier, Elizabeth           Gr 1 Supported
Chavez, Jennifer              Latin
Chouinard, Paula              Para, Sped Inclusion Gr 6
Christensen, Henry            Tech Ed
Church, David                 Maint. Plumb/Heating
Ciccone, Amy                  Para, Clerical
Clark, Lora                   Inclusion
Clayman, Sally                Para, Regular Ed K, Lunch
Clough, Patrice               English
Clough, Linda                 Para, 1:1 Sped
Coakley, Peter,               Custodian
Cohen, Donna                  Para, Therapeutic Preschool




                                 260
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Cohen, Craig                 Tutor, Sped Transitional
Colantuno, Claire            Para, Sped/Lunch
Colby, Stephanie             Library Media Specialist
Coleman, Rosalind            Para, Kdg/Lunch
Colfer, Robert               Social Studies
Comeau, Ronald               Maint, Electrician
Comins, Brenda               Cafeteria
Conley, Karen                Gr 3
Cooney, Constance            Gr 5
Corsini, Caroline            Tutor
Costonis, Christina          Gr 6
Cowan, Judith,               Tutor,Lang Based
Coyle, Carolyn               STEPS Teacher
Criswell, Maryann            English
Cronin, Lenore               ADK
Crosby, Rosemary             Nurse
Crowley, Brian               Social Studies
Culhane-Hermann, Catherine   Nurse
Cullen, Deborah              Nurse
Cunningham, Kristen          Para. Gr 2, 1:2
Dahlmer, Beth                Sped, OT
D'Amour, Eileen              Music
Dana, Gregory                Math
Darci, Maureen               ADK
Davidson, Gail               Cafeteria
Davis-Allan, Ann             Sped, 7 Inclusion
Dawes, Elizabeth             Sped, Academic Skills
Day, Marilyn                 English
DeBerardinis, Debora         Sped, COTA
deBronkart, Lindsay          Chemistry
Deiana, Dawna                Gr 4 Inclusion
Delano, Judith               Para, Lunch
Denis, Margaret              Cafeteria
Depelteau, Audrey            Biology
Devanney, Amanda             Guidance Counselor
Dewing, James                Custodian, Asst. Head
Dexter, Lesley               Tutor, Sped Inclusion
DiGiammarino, Jennifer       Tutor, Math
Dill, Estelle                Tutor, Therapeutic
Doane, Marilyn               Para, Clerical




                                261
                          MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Dodge, Elizabeth                 Tutor, Sped 1:1
Douglass, James                  Custodian
Draper, Mark                     Music .9
Drummond, Ellen                  Tutor, Resource Room
Duffy, Amy                       Gr 2
Duijvesteijn, Christine          Tutor, ABA
Duncan, Sharon                   Para, Sped/Lunch
Dunn, Robert                     Tutor, ABA
Eaton, Allison                   Guidance Counselor
Edwards, Kathleen                Tech Ed/Family/Consumer Science
Eisenhower, Kay                  Gr 8
Emaus, Patrick                   Math
Emblidge, Jennifer               Biology
Emond, Christine                 Para, Sped
Ericsson, Thomas                 Science, Biology
Erikson, Melissa                 Gr 3
Erikson, Meotis                  Gr 4
Fairbanks, Lee-Anne              Gr 1
Fallon, Lois                     Para, Clerical
Fargo, Eric                      Phys Ed
Farrell, James                   Art
Feins, Robin                     English
Feins, Steve                     Social Studies
Feraco, Nadine                   Special Education
Ferris, Linda                    Para, Preschool/Lunch
Ferris, Kathryn                  Band
Feudo, Danielle                  Tutor, 1:1 Access Program
Fine, Carol                      Gr 7 Sped Therapeutic
Finnegan, Jennifer               Sped, Resource Room .5
Finn-Welch, Ellen                Sped, Spch&Lang Therapist
Fintonis, George                 Para, Sped
Fischer, Susan                   TIDES Teacher
Fishman, Lindsay                 Gr 5
Fitzgerald, Judith               Cafeteria
Forward, Maura                   Tutor, Sped Lang Based
Frankel, Dara                    Tutor, Reading
Frawley, Patricia                Sped, PK-K SAILS Program
Freeto, June                     Cafeteria
Friedman, Alisa                  Tutor, STRIDES ABA
Garrett, Karen                   Tutor, Special Education




                                    262
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Garry, Benjamin             Language Based
Garthe, Jane                Tutor, Reading
Gaskell, Marian             Tutor, Math, Resource Room
Gauthier, Allan             Guidance Counselor
Gay, Betsy                  ADK
Geaney, Debra               Integrated Kindergarten
Geary, Joan                 Science
Geraghty, Anne              Sped, Spch&Lang Asst
Getz, Thomas                Gr 5
Giardi, Michael             Math
Gilbert, Rebecca            Sped, 6 Inclusion
Gilligan, Amy               Para, Clerical/Lunch
Gilson, Lucy                Para, Regular Ed K/Lunch
Goering, Kathryn            Speech & Language
Goodwin, Darlene            Para, Lunch
Goodwin, Josene             Cafeteria
Gora, Diane                 Gr 1
Grant, Jennifer             Tutor, 1:1 Sped
Gray, Carol                 Gr 8
Graziano, Angela            Gr 3
Greeley, Elizabeth          Cafeteria
Greenberg, Mindi            Spanish
Greenman, Mark              Science, Chemistry/Physics
Griffin, Erika              Guidance Counselor
Guerrido, Annelly           Tutor, 1:1 Sped
Guider, F.                  Math
Gunter, Cassandra           METCO Bus Monitor/clerical
Gurman, Martha              Sped, Spch&Lang Pathologist
Guthartz, Randy             Art
Guttadauro, Jae             FL Spanish
Halks, Judith               Library Media Specialist
Hall, Faith                 Gr 3
Hall, Phyllis               Cafeteria
Halvorsen, Erik             Permanent Substitute
Halvorsen, Alice            Gr 6
Hamilton, Anne              Para, METCO clerical
Hamilton, Monica            Para, Sped 1:1
Hanifey, Patricia           Secretary, Guidance
Hanlon, Susan               ADK
Hansen, Gianna              Gr 2




                               263
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Harmon, Paul                English
Hart, Mary Ellen            Tutor, Reading
Haskell, William            Custodian
Hastings, Rebecca           Para, Reg K/Lunch
Healey, Mary                Cafeteria
Heenan, Brian               Science, Biology
Heller, Jonathan            Gr 6
Henry, Kimberly             Para, Sped Gr 6 Inclusion
Herchenhahn, Mary           Art
Hicks, Patrick              Gr 5 Inclusion
Higgins, Thomas             English
Hirshberg, Matthew          Social Studies Gr 8
Holbrook, Susan             Resource Room
Homan, Carol                Cafeteria Helper
Hooks, Cynthia              Gr 3
Hughes, Kenneth             Custodian/Bus Driver
Humphrey, Melissa           Social Studies
Jackman, Erik               METCO Academic Counselor
Jackson, Jacklyn            Cafeteria, Bookkeeper
Jalbert, Jean               Custodian, Head
James, Lynda                Gr 4
Jancsy, Margaret            Permanent Substitute
Janes, Kimberly             Gr 4
Janock, Heidi               Grade 2
Johnson, Beth               Gr 2
Johnson, Nancy              Para, Resource Room
Johnson, Carol              Sped, LICSW
Johnson, Ehrin              Literacy Specialist
Johnston, Elisa             Tutor, TIDES
Jones, Richard              Custodian
Jones, Bethan               English
Jones-Tentendo, Marylyn     Para, Kdg./Lunch
Joyce, Michael              Permanent Substitute
Juncker, Henry              Social Studies
Kalfin, Gale                Sped, Gr 11 Resource
Kaltsas, Eleni              Cafeteria
Kameras, Maria              .5 Technology
Kamin, Shelley              Sped Clerk
Kannally, Timothy           Gr 4
Karns, Brigitte             Gr 8




                               264
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Kavanagh, Joan                Sped, Elem Lang Based Prog
Keating, James                Science, General
Kelley, Liam                  Custodian
Kennedy, Patricia             Cafeteria
Knight, Kathy                 Para, Kdg/Lunch
Knowlton, Nancy               Para, Sped Gr 1
Kolsky, Robert                Custodian
Korodi, Nicole                Gr 3
Kozlowski, John               Sped Van Driver/Custodian
Kriteman, Cheryl              Gr 7
Kritikos, Alexis              Tutor, Therapeutic Preschool
Kuszmar, Linda                Para, Clerical
Lamby, Juanita                Guidance Counselor
Lamontagne, Renee             Integrated Kindergarten
Land, Howard                  Bus Driver/Custodian
Landergan, Catherine          Tech Ed
Landers, Noelle               .5 Preschool .5 Resource
Landy, Eileen                 Tutor, Reading
Lane, Cortney                 Sped, Gr 6 Inclusion
Langner, Kristen              Tutor, Academic Skills
Lavender, Michael             Phys Ed
Lavoie, Scott                 Custodian
Leap, Jeanette                Para, Regular Ed K, Lunch
LeBlanc, JoAnne               Para, Clerical/Lunch
LeBlanc, Mary                 Gr 6 ELA/SS
LeClerc, Mary                 Para, Clerical
LeFleur, Sandra               Sped, Integrated Preschool
Legget, Donna                 Para, Clerical
Lehman, Karen                 Photography
Lemieux, Jody                 Tutor, Reading
Lemieux, Robert               Custodian
Leslie, Margery               Tutor, Sped
Little, Luana                 Gr 7
Lonergan, Barbara             Para, Sped, 1:1 Lunch/Recess
Long, Cheryl                  Para, Bus Monitor
Long, Eugene                  Latin .8
Long, Glenn                   Custodian, Head
Lovejoy, Carol                Gr 7/8 Math
Lovely, Laura                 Gr 7
Luise, Judy                   Adjustment Counselor




                                 265
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



MacAllister, Mary            Art
Mace, Richard                Custodian
Mace, Jayne                  Para, Science Lab
Machado, Kathryn             Gr 3
Maddock, Pamela              Social Studies
Magana, Elmer                Spanish
Malatesta, Barbara           Guidance Counselor
Mandell, Elissa              Para, PACE
Maney, Martha                Para, PreK
Maravelias, Nancy            Guidance Counselor
Margolis, Linda              Gr 5
Matthews, Richard            Custodian
McCarthy, Elizabeth          Para, Lunch
McCarthy, Edward             Custodian
McEntee, Christine           Para, Reg Ed K/Lunch
McGrath, Kristen             Nurse
McGrath, Danielle            Phys Ed
McGuinnes, Melissa           Gr 1
McIntosh, John               Phys Ed
McKeever, Charles            Custodian
McKie, Maryann               Secretary, Village
McLaughlin, Janice           Cafeteria
McLaughlin, Joseph           Guidance Counselor
McLean, Gordon               Math
McMahon, Maura               Gr 3
McMahon, Julie               Gr 5
Meagher, Laurie              Spanish
Meehan, Megan                Guidance Counselor
Mellor, Margaret             Para, Kdg./Lunch
Mellor, Cheryl               Sped, 9 Resource Room
Merrill, Melissa             Tutor, Reading
Metheny, S                   Para, PreK
Michaud, Maria               Para, Reg Ed 504, Lunch
Miles, Mary                  Gr 6
Miller, Joan                 Sped, 7 Inclusion
Miller, Jennifer             Gr 4 Inclusion
Millett, Katherine           Cafeteria
Millett, Michael             Technology Network Manager
Milligan, Richard            Custodian
Millott, Anna                English




                                266
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Mitchener, Kristen             PACE
Monaco, Merel                  Tutor, Sped, HS Academic Skills
Moriarty, Kelly                Tutor, Sped
Morneau, Albert                Maintenance, General
Morong, Jon                    Gr 3
Morsi, Karima                  Physics
Moses-Farmer, Barbara          Secretary, HS-CD Assistant
Mullarkey, Tracie              Para, Sped 1:1
Murphy, Lisa                   Sped, Gr 5/6 Lang Based
Murphy, Philip                 Phys Ed
Murphy, Craig                  STEPS
Murray, Dawn                   Nurse
Nash, Laura                    Gr 5
Neilson, Paula                 ADK
Nelson, Todd                   Tutor, 1:1 Access
Neumann, Carol                 Tutor, Math
Newsome, Jeffrey               Guidance Counselor
Norman, Kristen                Secretary, Student Activities
Novelli, Paula                 Gr 4
November, Donna                Gr 2
Oestermeyer, Caroline          English
O'Leary, Jennifer              PACE
Onusseit, Dale                 Tutor, Language Based
O'Reilly, Debora               Science, Chemistry
Orenberg, Ashley               Tutor, Reading
Orlen, Iris                    METCO Academic Coach
Orlen, Gerald                  METCO Academic Coach
Osgood, Holly                  Music
Page, Carolan                  Tutor, Math
Page, Harriett                 Science, Chemistry
Pangallo, Salvatore            Phys Ed
Park, Janice                   Sped COTA
Parker, Stephanie              Spanish
Perroni, Brenda                Kindergarten
Persaud, Margaret              Cafeteria
Peters, Evonne                 Tutor, ELL
Peterson, Valerie              Music
Pfeifer, Rebecca               Gr 1
Phillips, Raymond              Custodian, Head
Phillips, Tammy                Tutor, Job Coach




                                  267
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Pierce, Karen                Gr 3 Supported
Pierce, Stephen              Art
Pillsbury, Susan             Sped, Spch&Lang Pathologist
Polan, Andrea                French
Portnoy, Andrea              METCO Academic Coach
Potvin, Richard              Lunch Van Driver
Powell, Kathleen             Tutor, Reading
Preman, Rhonda               ADK
Price, Dawn                  Para, Lunch
Pruett, Elizabeth            Tutor, Reading
Pugh, Annie                  Gr 5
Purdin, Joy                  Gr 4
Queval, Pascale              Art/French
Quigley, Suzanne             Tutor, Sped, Lang Based
Quillen, Lisa                Gr 1
Quinn, Janet                 Tutor, Reading
Racki, James                 Custodian, Head
Raimer, Jennifer             Para, TIDES
Ranta, Mary Ellen            Tutor, Sped, Lang Based
Reno, Annalisa               Gr 1
Reynolds, Katherine          Science, Gr 8
Richards, James              Custodian
Rivera, Hope                 Para, Sped/Lunch TIDES
Roeder, Amanda               Music
Roeser, Kathleen             Tutor
Rombach, Jeannie             Tutor, Sped, Academic Skills
Rosenthal, Michele           Tutor, ELL
Ross, Killeen                Gr 4
Rotman, Sandra               Phys Ed
Rourke, Allison              Gr 8
Rudloff, James               Sped, HS Therapeutic Program
Rumson, Janet                Gr 5
Russett, Kristen             FL French
Ryan, Nicole                 Art
Ryan, Micheline              Math
Ryan, Connor                 English
Rydzewski, Kenneth           Sped, 12 Resource Room
Salkins, Laura               Gr 2
Sawyer, Thomas               Tutor, Therapeutic
Schaffnit, James             Gr 7




                                268
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Schiller, Barbara             Tutor, Reading
Scott, Anne                   Nurse
Scribner, Deborah             Custodian
Scribner, Robert              Custodian, Head
Seiden, Gloria                Cafeteria
Sevinor, Meryl                ADK
Sexton, Erica                 Gr 4
Shapiro, Mary                 Gr 1
Shaw, Francessa               Guidance Counselor
Shaw, Sally                   Para, Preschool/Lunch
Sheckman, Bryan               Permanent Substitute
Sheridan, Frances             ADK
Sheridan, Peter               Shop Carpentry
Sherlock, Kathleen            Access Program
Shevory, Sally                Gr 3
Sholds, Kristinia             English
Shull, Williard               Gr 7
Simard, Christine             Cafeteria
Skalaban, Janice              Business
Slattery, Margaret            Sped Admin Assistant
Slattery-Sumner, Marjorie     Cafeteria
Slepian, Jane                 Para, Sped/Lunch
Sliney, Candice               Spanish
Smith, Karen                  Tutor, Reading
Smith, Andrew                 Math
Smith, Kathryn                Gr 8
Smullin, Rachel               Sped, TIDES
Soghomonian, Allison          Library Media Specialist
Sojka, Szymon                 Tutor, STEPS
Sommerstein, Ann              Tutor, Integ. Kdg.
Song, Kendra                  Math
Soucy, Wendy                  Tutor, 1:1 Sped
Spear, Susan                  Tutor, TIDES
Spillane, Carol               Tutor, Sped, Resource Room
Steadman, Joanne              Phys Ed
Steinberg, Sari               Sped, Spch&Lang Pathologist
Stevens, Caron                Para, Sped/Lunch
Stoddard, Joseph              Music
Stoll, Gayle                  Sped, Spch&Lang Pathologist
Stomatuk, Joan                Business




                                 269
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Strasser, Rebecca            Music
Stuart, Bridget              Tutor, Sped
Sugarman, Lisa               Para, Sped 1:1
Sumner, Gregory              Custodian
Sutherland, John             Custodian
Swain, Lisa                  COTA
Sweazy, Kilmer               Instructional Tech. Specialist
Tangney, Matthew             Social Studies
Taranto, Beth                Para, Sped 1:1
Tardiff, Paula               Gr 2
Tarmey, Mark                 Tutor, Sped Math
Tatirosian, Lynne            Metco Academic Coach
Tatterfield, Martha          Cafeteria
Taverna-Dennis, Barbara      Sped Transitional Asst.
Taylor, Richard              Technology Maint/Repair
Teague, Leslie               Para, Kdg/Lunch
Tejada, Lynne                Cafeteria
Tentindo, Paul               Tutor
Terpos, Katherine            Health
Thomas, Barbara              ADK
Thompson, Denise             Para, 1:1 Sped/Lunch
Thompson, Cynthia            Para, Clerical Fine Arts
Tillman, Lisa                Para, Sped/Lunch
Tirelli, Robert              Music
Tobin, Catherine             Para, Kdg/Lunch
Trainor, Stephanie           Gr 6
Traynor, Veronica            Para, Sped, 1:1 Lunch
Treff, Maria                 Tutor, Sped ACCESS
Tully, Frances               Gr 1
Turcotte, Lindsay            Gr 3
Uddin, Mohammed              Custodian
Valeri, Victoria             Gr 4
Venezia, Stephen             Social Studies
Volpe, Stephen               Gr 5
Wachtel, Kyle                Phys Ed
Wahtera, Philo               Gr 2
Wales, Susan                 Sped
Wales, G. Herrick            Sped, MS Academic Skills
Wallace, Barbara             Para, Sped
Walsh, Meghan                Sped, 4 Lang Based Program




                                 270
                       MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Ward, Laura                   Tutor, Lang Based Reading
Warren, Kenneth               Music
Washburn, Holly               ABA Tutor
Webster, Leigh                Tutor, 1:1 ABA
Weed, Michelle                Gr 2
Wentzell, Jean                Sped Gr 8 Inclusion
Wesley, Michelle              Gr 7
Wicks, Celine                 Gr 6
Wilder, Ann                   .5 Speech/Lang. Pathologist
Wilkens, John                 Social Studies
Willard, Marilyn              Para, 1:1 Sped
Williams, Pamela              Para, Math/Science
Williams, Nancy               Para, Clerical
Williams-Lord, Mary           Gr 5
Wilson, Janice                Secretary, HS Guidance
Wilson, James                 Gr 10 Resource Room
Wolff-Variam, Cheryl          Tutor, Language Based
Wood, Enid                    Cafeteria
Woodfin, Lonna                Nurse
Worrick, Ann                  Tutor, Reading
Yanow, Brooke                 Kindergarten
Yeti, Danielle                3-12 Orchestra Director
Zalanowski, David             Physics
Zimmer, Wendy                 Sped, Spch&Lang Pathologist




                         2007 MCAS SUMMARY

                          Longitudinal Summary




                                  271
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



             (percentage of students at each performance level)


                          Grade 3 System Wide

Reading/ELA              2003         2004         2005        2006     2007
Advanced                                                       38       26
Proficient                82           88           81         40       48
Needs Improvement         16           11           16          21      21
Warning/Failing            3           1            2           1        4
Mathematics              2003         2004         2005        2006     2007
Advanced                                                        6       30
Proficient                                                     64       41
Needs Improvement                                              25       21
Warning/Failing                                                 5        8



                                      Grade 4

   English/Lang. Arts          2003         2004        2005     2006    2007
   Advanced                     15           15          14        8      18
   Proficient                   57           58          51       57      63
   Needs Improvement            25           25          29       28      15
   Warning/Failing               2           2           6        7       4
   Mathematics                 2003         2004        2005     2006    2007
   Advanced                     20           20          21       19      21
   Proficient                   37           40          37       36      37
   Needs Improvement            38           35          36       38      34
   Warning/Failing              5            4           7        8       8




                                      272
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                                  Grade 5

  English/Lang. Arts     2003      2004      2005    2006    2007
  Advanced                                            25      21
  Proficient                                          55      56
  Needs Improvement                                   15      19
  Warning/Failing                                     4        3
  Mathematics            2003      2004      2005    2006    2007
  Advanced                                            30      33
  Proficient                                          36      41
  Needs Improvement                                   26      18
  Warning/Failing                                     8        8
  Science & Tech.        2003      2004      2005    2006    2007
  Advanced                27        21        18      18      18
  Proficient              40        38        53      46      42
  Needs Improvement       27        35        25      32      35
  Warning/Failing          6         6         4       4       5


                                Grade 6

English/Lang. Arts      2003      2004      2005    2006    2007
Advanced                                             20      17
Proficient                                           64      69
Needs Improvement                                    13      12
Warning/Failing                                      3       2
Mathematics             2003      2004      2005    2006    2007
Advanced                 32        38        26      25      28
Proficient               38        28        36      41      42
Needs Improvement        21        24        24      23      24
Warning/Failing          9         10        14      11      6




                                 273
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                                Grade 7

English/Lang. Arts      2003       2004    2005    2006    2007
Advanced                 11         24      19      20      21
Proficient               74         64      66      64      69
Needs Improvement        14         10      13      14      8
Warning/Failing          1          3       2       2       1
Mathematics             2003       2004    2005    2006    2007
Advanced                                            15      21
Proficient                                          37      40
Needs Improvement                                   35      30
Warning/Failing                                     13      9




                                Grade 8
Eng/Language Arts        2003       2004    2005    2006   2007
Advanced                                             24     39
Proficient                                           60     57
Needs Improvement                                    13      2
Failing                                               3      2
Mathematics              2003       2004    2005    2006   2007
Advanced                  20         16      31      34     36
Proficient                35         35      34      33     37
Needs Improvement         28         34      21      15     20
Warning/Failing           17         15      14      18      7
Science/Technology       2003       2004    2005    2006   2007
Advanced                   4          7       1      12      6
Proficient                45         38      46      50     49
Needs Improvement         40         42      43      28     40
Warning/Failing           11         12      9       11      6




                                 274
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                             Grade 10

Eng/Language Arts     2003      2004    2005   2006   2007
Advanced               24        39      43     17    44
Proficient             58        46     43     70     47
Needs Improvement      15        13     12     12      9
Warning/Failing        3          3      2      2      1
Mathematics           2003      2004    2005   2006   2007
Advanced               33        46     53     54     67
Proficient             36        32     27     28     22
Needs Improvement      20        14     17     13     10
Warning/Failing        10         7      4      5      2




                                275
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



                     Scholastic Aptitude Test Scores (SAT)
                               Five-Year History
                           Marblehead SAT Scores

            Year             Verbal            Math            Combined
            2003              561              562               1123
            2004              557              556               1113
            2005              559              559               1118

                            Critical
            Year                               Math             Writing
                            Reading
            2006              552               563               550
            2007              554               554               548

                                AP Examinations
                YEAR                 2005             2006          2007
      # of Students                   136              163           128
                                      190              250           176
      Total Grades reported
      # of Subjects                      15            14             11
      % Earning 3 or Better             84%           75%            88%

                     National Merit Scholarship Program
Class of 2008 - 6 Commended Scholars
Class of 2007 – 1 Semi-Finalist and 13 Commended Students
Class of 2006 – 1 Semi-Finalist and 5 Commended Students

                       Advanced Placement Awards 2007

Thirty-eight students at Marblehead High School were named AP Scholars by the
College Board in recognition of their exceptional achievement on the college-level
AP Examinations in May 2007.
                              20 AP Scholar Awards
                              14 AP Scholar with Honor Awards
                               3 AP Scholar with Distinction Awards
                               1 AP National Scholar




                                       276
                      MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                 Post Secondary Report for the Class of 2007
Size of Class                              233
Percentage continuing education             95 %
   Attending 4 year Colleges                85 %
   Attending 2 year Colleges                76 %
   Post Grad or Technical School             3%
Percentage going into employment             3%




                              Class of 2007

            Valedictorian: Daniel Weinstein Steinbrook


     Emily Elizabeth Abercrombie               John Maximilian Biggio
     Lee Eddie Adams III                       Caroline Eylse Bishop
   + Geoffrey Christopher Alex               + Tucker Whitney Blagden
   + Marc Hoffmann Amoroso                     Kyle Reid Blaisdell
     Ralph William Anderson                    Russell Nathan Blattberg
     Alexandra Alicia Andino                   Meghan Bridget Boehmer
   + Spencer Arthur Andrews                  + Rachel Ilana Brody
     Brittany Noelle Bach                      Jess Paul Burton
   + John Cassidy Bachner                    + Mary Finan Butterworth
     Grace Willoughby Bacon                    Kelsey Inge Campbell
     Verity Anne Baker                       + MacKenzie Campbell
     Gregory J. Barnes                      *+ Scott Thomas Carroll
     Jonathon Shepard Barrows                  Angela Anna Cataldo
 *++ Kevin Richard Bennett                     Colby Elizabeth Chaisson
   + Michael Charles Bennett                   Katlyn Elizabeth Chaisson
     Julia Bragdon Bennett-Fieman              Patrick Howes Chandler
     Benjamin Harrison Benson                  Jessica Kay Cheney
     Alexander James Bent                      Nathan Michael Ciaramella
     Lauren Mary Berardino                 *++ Rebecca Helen Clayman
     Lauren Trachy Beshara                     Margeaux Irick Cohen
 *++ Maxwell Emanuel Bevilacqua            *++ Anne Elizabeth Cohn




                                    277
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



    Christina Ro Coleman                  *++ Kyle Brandon Gilbreath
  + Neil William Conklin                      Daniel Murphy Glabicky
*++ Kathryn Lindsay Conn                   *+ Brett Harrison Goldberg
    Joseph Patrick Crosby                   + Eugene Goldin
    Kelsey Leigh Curtin                       Matthew Ross Gomberg
    Lyle Hall Curtis                        + Christopher Douglas Gordon
    Emily Anne D’Alessandro                   Hayley Renee Greco
  + Katherine Cooper Danforth                 Nevin Martin Gundersen
    Thomas Lee Davis                        + Nicole Mikel Habin
    Hannah Marie Deck                         Michael Franklin Hadden
    Brendan Patrick Delaney                   Jason David Hagberg
    Alycia Rose Dell’Orfano                   Samantha E.Hahn
    Nicholas Stephen Dell’Orfano              Caitlin Lynch Haigis
    Jenna Joan deLuccia                       George Oliver Halsted
  + Meredith Elinor Diamont                   Bridget Ellen Hamilton
  + Mark Daniel Doran                         Jameson Randolph Hare
 *+ Benjamin Seth Dornbush                    Jones M.Harrington
    Jessica Kristin Dumas                     Devon Leigh Harris
    Jeffrey Bartlet Edwards                   Steven Michael Heddon
  + Scott William Edwards, Jr.              + Julie Anne-Marie Helmes
    Zachary Adam Ehlert                   *++ Stuart Turner Henige
*++ Rebecca Elana Eidelman                *++ John Henry Herlihy
    Matthew Christopher Eline                 Roxanne Corcoran Hughes
    Kelsey Enman                              Shing Hau Hung
  + Justin Leon Etinger                   *++ Kathleen Alexandra Hunt
  + Daniel Stuart Evans                       Ellory MacKay Jacobs
  + Erica Alkon Finkelstein                   Rose Sandia Jerome
    Daniel Scott Fishkin                      William Arthur Johnson
  + Heather Caldwell Fox                      John Michael Joyce
  + Allison Beth Frankel                    + Anya Kanevsky
  + Kathleen Louise Franklin                + Allix Michelle Karas
  + Lisa Danielle Franklin                *++ Ariana Joy Katzman
    Ali Elizabeth French                      Emily Myers Kempthorne
    Anthony Patrick Furey                     Lindsay Catherine King
  + Joanna Elissa Gammel                  *++ Adam Blake Kingsbury
    George Kishin Sardar Ganglani         *++ Bradford Graeme Knight
    Julian James Georgenes                    Angela Melissa Koontz
    Elizabeth Dooling Georges               + Liam Gloster Kraft
*++ John Thomas Geraghty                      Jason Sheppard Krivelow
    Hannah Caitlin Gibney                 *++ Ivan Kuraev




                                    278
                    MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



*++ Andrew Joseph Kurzrok                     Stephen Alexander Norman
    Olivia Alice Landergan                    Jennifer Marissa Northrop
    Danielle Langelier                        Melody Margaret Oleson
    Alycia Latorella                        + Michael Kieran O’Neil
    Jon Richard Latorella                     Erica Nicole Owen
    Farrah Vanessa Latortue                   Anthony Kyle Padrone
    Caitlin Louise Lauria                 *++ Benjamin Judd Paly
  + Katherine Mary Lavoie-Mayer               Matthew Charles Panagakis
    Kevin Barry Leahy                         Christopher Rollinson
  + Kathryn Ellen Leary                  Peckbeaton
    Lindsey Marie LeClair                     Matthew Ryan Perry
    Kyle Donald LeClerc                     + Albert Phu
    Alexandra Marie Lemieux                   Leanna Sarah Plaza
*++ Alina Hart Letendre                     + Jared Harvey Pliner
    Matthew David Lincoff                     John Michael Porter
  + Eric Daniel Lipkind                       Mallory Auger Powers
    Kathryn Ann MacLeod                       Jacob Morris Rainer
    Taylor Victoria Macomber                  Tiffany Marie Reams
    Jesse Lowell Mader                        Kaylee Ricciardi
    Erin Louise Magrane                       Jose Manuel Rodriguez
    Zachary John Maguire                      Nicholai Alexander Roscoe
*++ Rachel Elisabeth Marcus                   Max Rosenfeld
 *+ Samuel Ian Martin                         Daniel Chapman Roundy
    Sara Kathleen McAndrews                   Colton Winter Russo
    Paul McBurney                           + Heather Sarah Saxe
    Brendan Michael McDonough               + Rachael Amanda Schaier
  + Sandra Ann McDowell                     + Brianna Dorothy Schneider
    Sara Ann McMenimen                        Ross Andrew Segal
  + Charles Edwin McMullen                  + David Samuel Seiden
    Michael John Mentuck                      Brittany Julianna Sells
    Lauren Paige Michaels                     Shawn Foster Shephard
    Douglas Harry Mills                     + Douglas Bendetson Shube
    Stephanie Anne Milne                    + Deenah Ellen Shutzer
*++ Michael McGrath Mitchell                  Isabela Altobelli Smirne
  + Emily Margaret Morin                      Darby Seamans Smith
*++ Vicki Jaye Morris                         Natalie Mae Smith
    Elisha Suzanne Musgraves                  Nathaniel Prescott Smith
    Evan Michael Navon                      + J. Nicholas William Spanos
    Holly Elizabeth Niedringhaus              Samantha R.Sprague
    Timothy S.Nielson                     *++ Ashley Elizabeth Stanojev




                                   279
                     MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



*++ Daniel Weinstein Steinbrook             Garrett Patrick Zager
*++ Rachel Ayn Stowell                  *++ Erin Aiken Zaikis
    Kachina Mae Studer
    Sylvania Aurelia Suarez
*++ Hibiki Suemasa
    Katlin Helena Sullivan
    Daniel Garrett Swanson
    Daniel Joseph Taylor
    Richard John Taylor
    Mark Jones Tentindo
  + David Alexander Thibodeau
    Erika Kriston Thompson
  + Pierce Whitlock Thompson
    Tania Nicole Thompson
    Dean Samuel Thorne
    Jennifer Pauline Titus
    Benjamin Pierce Treadwell
  + Eric Nicholas Tremblay
*++ Roger Perry Tufts
*++ Emily Kristina Twaalfhoven
    Martin Hugo Valdes
  + Dustin Anthony Valido
    Gustanielle Jude Vilme
  + Vera Viner
    Sergey Voznyuk
  + Kristina Laine Walker
    Stephanie Victoria Walker
  + Hannah Hedge Warren
    William Jessop Watton
    Melissa Bisbee Weil
*++ Kristin Elizabeth Wetherbee
    Timothy James Whelan
  + Anthony Gerard White
    Jayne Aldrich Wilhelm
    Amanda Jean Willard
    Amanda Paige Williams
    John Daniel Wood
    Heidi Marie Wright-Singer
    Michael Charles Yoffa
  + Stacie Lauren Yomtov




                                  280
                  MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




                     * National Honor Society Member
   ++ High Honor Graduate: 3.8 Cumulative Grade Point Average or better
                               (7 semesters)
+ Honor Graduate: 3.4 Cumulative Grade Point Average or better (7 semesters)
         NOTE: List of graduates and awards subject to change




                                 281
      School    PreK   K      1     2     3     4     5     6     7     8     9    10    11     12   Totals

      Bell      32     82    82    79    86                                                           361

      Coffin                       77    92                                                           169

      Gerry            77    78                                                                       155

      Glover           44    64    44    100                                                          252




282
      Eveleth          44    44    43                                                                 131

      Village                                  248   219   240                                        707

      Middle                                                     220   243                            463
                                                                                                              October 1, 2007 Enrollments
                                                                                                                                            MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




      High                                                                   264   255   225   238    982

      Total     32     247   268   243   278   248   219   240   220   243   264   255   225   238   3220
             MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




             Five-Year Enrollment Summary



             10/1/03   10/1/04   10/1/05   10/1/06   10/1/07

PreSchool      39        28        39        42        32
Elementary    1172      1017      1005      1029      1036
Village                 624       610       612       707
School
Middle        856       435       462       462       463
School
High          936       971       1001      990       982
School
Total         3003      3075      3117      3135      3220




                           283
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
County of Essex, ss
to Any Constable in the Town of Marblehead
Greeting:

         You are hereby required and directed in the name of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts to warn and give notice to the inhabitants of Marblehead, qualified to
vote in elections and in town affairs, to meet at the Marblehead Veterans Middle
School Auditorium, Duncan Sleigh Square, 217 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA, on
Monday, the fifth day of May next A. D. 2008 (it being the first Monday in May) at
7:45 o’clock in the afternoon to act on the following articles in the Warrant for said
meeting as follows:

Article 1 Articles in Numerical Order
To see if the Town will vote to adopt an order requiring articles in the Warrant to be
taken up in their numerical order, as requested by the Selectmen.

Article 2 Reports of Town Officers and Committees
To receive the report of the Town Accountant, the reports of the Town Officers, and
special Committees and act thereon.

Article 3 Lease Town Property
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to let or
lease such land, buildings or structures owned by the Town on such terms as they
may determine, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board
of Selectmen.

Article 4 Accept Trust Property
To see if the Town will vote to accept certain trust property, gifts or grants to be
administered by the Town or modify the terms thereof, or take any other action
relative thereto, as sponsored by Town Counsel.

Article 5 Assume Liability
To see if the Town will assume liability in the manner provided by Section 29 of
Chapter 91 of the General Laws, for all damages that may be incurred by work to be
performed by the Massachusetts Highway Department for the improvement,
development, maintenance and protection of tidal and non tidal rivers and streams,
harbors, tidewaters, foreshores and shores along a public beach in accordance with
Section 11 of Chapter 91 of the General Laws and authorize the Selectmen to




                                        284
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



execute and deliver a bond of indemnity therefor to the Commonwealth, or take any
other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 6 Unpaid Accounts
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of
money to provide for the payment of any unpaid accounts brought forward from
previous years, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance
Director.

Article 7 Revolving Funds
To see if the Town will vote to authorize various revolving funds as required by
M.G.L. c 44 s.53E ½, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.

Article 8 North Shore Regional Vocational School District
To see if the Town will vote to approve the gross operating and maintenance budget
of the North Shore Technical High School and appropriate a sum of money for the
Town’s assessment of the same, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored
by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 9 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Administrative)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the By-laws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Administrative Pay Schedule; to strike out the pay schedule
as it relates to Administrative personnel, substitute in place thereof the following
new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of
money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 10 Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Seasonal and
Temporary Personnel)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the By-laws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Seasonal and Temporary Personnel Pay Schedules; strike out
the pay schedules as they relate to seasonal and temporary personnel, substitute in
place thereof the following new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds
and/or appropriate a sum of money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.




                                       285
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Article 11 Pay Schedule and Reclassification (Traffic Supervisors)
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 121 of the By-laws, Classification
and Wage Salary Plan, by changing certain job titles where indicated and reclassify
certain positions in the Traffic Supervisors Pay Schedule; to waive the pay schedule
as it relates to Traffic Supervisor personnel, substitute in place thereof the following
new pay schedules and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate a sum of
money to make said new pay schedules effective, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 12 Ratification of Salary By-law
To see if the Town will vote to ratify certain actions taken by the Compensation
Committee under the 1955 Salary By-law, Section 3(e) as last amended and amend
the classification of positions as follows:

    1. Reclassify and change job title in the Administrative Pay schedule:
           a. Part-time Senior Clerk position in the Fire Department reclassified
                as a part-time Administrative Clerk Group 50.
Or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Compensation
Committee.

Article 13 Compensation - Town Officers
To see if the Town will vote to revise the compensation of the Town Clerk as the
Town by vote may determine and to transfer from available funds and/or appropriate
a sum of money to make said revision effective or take any other action relative
thereto, as sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.


Article 14 Salaries of Public Employees Serving in the Military
To vote that the Town of Marblehead accept Chapter 137 of the Acts of 2003, as
amended by Chapter 77 of the Acts of 2005, such acceptance shall be effective on
July 1, 2007. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 15 Walls and Fences
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for the
construction and reconstruction of walls and fences for the protection of highways
and property, including engineering services in connection therewith; to authorize
the appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise,
any land or easements necessary therefor; to determine whether this appropriation
shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.




                                         286
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Article 16 Water and Sewer Commission Claims
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the
Board of Selectmen acting jointly to compromise any claims for damages or suits
pending against the Town of Marblehead on account of acts which may have
occurred during the construction of the water, sewer and storm water system or take
any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners.

Article 17 Storm Drainage Construction
 To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the construction or
reconstruction of sewers for surface drainage purposes, and to authorize the
appropriate Town Officers to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise, any
land or easements necessary therefor, and to raise the money for such purposes by
the issue of bonds or notes or in any other manner, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 18 Sewer Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction or reconstruction of sewers for
sanitary purposes and for sewerage disposal, pump stations, original pumping
equipment, metering equipment, safety equipment, replacement of said equipment,
engineering, consultants, surveys, including revenue studies and other general Sewer
Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer
Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or
easements necessary to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 19 Water Department Construction
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Water and Sewer Commission for the construction, reconstruction and extending of
water mains, replacement of water meters, appurtenances, engineering, consultants,
surveys including revenue studies and other general Water Department purposes, and
to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners to acquire by purchase,
eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements necessary to take any other
action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners.

Article 20 Fiscal 2008 School Budget Additional Appropriation
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of
money to fund additional expenses of the fiscal 2008 school budget, said sum to be




                                       287
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



added to Article 56, Item 101, Schools, as voted at Town Meeting in May 2007, or
take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 21 Purchase Angenica property on Longview Drive
To see it the Town will vote to purchase or otherwise acquire a certain parcel of land
owned by Mario and Camille Angenica and located on Longview Drive West
(Assessor Map 21 Lot 19) for the purpose of open space; to determine whether this
appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; to take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by Jeffrey F. Stracka and others.

Article 22 Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for remodeling,
reconstructing and making extraordinary repairs to existing Town buildings and
purchase necessary equipment including computer hardware and software to
determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen.

Article 23 Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
To see if the Town will raise and appropriate any sums of money for the purchase of
equipment for the several departments of the Town; to authorize the Board of
Selectmen to trade old equipment as part of the purchase price; to determine whether
this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Committee.

Article 24 Financial Assistance for Conservation
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Conservation Commission and other
proper officers of the Town to apply for financial assistance from public and private
sources to be expended by the Conservation Commission for the purchase of vacant
land and any other purpose, authorized by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General
Laws as amended, or to reimburse the Town for sums of money expended for such
purposes, or both, and to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Conservation Commission.

Article 25 Amend Zoning Bylaw to Add an Alternate Member to the Planning
Board
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Marblehead Zoning Bylaw as follows:
“Article I, Section 200-4 ‘Board of Appeals,’” to be renumbered as “Article I,
Section 200-4(A) ‘Board of Appeals.’” Article I, to add the following new Section
200-4(B) “Planning Board,” to read as follows: A. Membership; Special Permit




                                        288
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Granting Authority. Where the Planning Board is authorized by this Bylaw to
determine whether to grant, deny or grant with conditions a special permit, and is
acting in said capacity, the Planning Board shall be comprised of five members and
one associate member. B. Associate Members. Associate members shall be
appointed by a majority vote of the Board of Selectmen and the Planning Board.” or
to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Planning Board.

Article 26 Amend General Bylaws to Add an Alternate Member to the
Planning Board
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Marblehead General Bylaws as follows:
Chapter 24 “Boards, Commissions and Committees,” Article IV “Planning Board,”
Section 24-6 “Membership,” to add the following clause and sentence to the end of
the first sentence thereof: “provided, however, that in accordance with Section 200-
4(B) of the Zoning Bylaw and G.L. c. 40A, § 9, the Planning Board shall be
comprised of five members and one associate member where it is authorized by the
Zoning Bylaw to determine whether to grant, deny or grant with conditions a special
permit, and is acting in said capacity.” or to take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the Panning Board.

Article 27 Amend the Zoning Bylaw
To see if the town will vote to amend the zoning bylaw as follows: Article II
Definitions Section 200-7 meanings of words LOT AREA which presently reads:
“The horizontal area within the exterior lines of the lot, exclusive of any area in a
street, and exclusive of any horizontal area subject to oceanic tidal action but below
mean high water; except that ½ of any private right-of-way common to the adjoining
lots may be included in the lot area to the extent that the title in fee simple to the
private right-of-way rests with the lot owner.” By removing the words “except that ½
of any private right-of-way common to the adjoining lots may be included in the lot
area to the extent that the title in fee simple to the private right-of-way rests with the
lot owner” to read instead “The horizontal area within the exterior lines of the lot,
exclusive of any area in a street, and exclusive of any horizontal area subject to
oceanic tidal action but below mean high water,” or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the Planning Board.

Article 28 Amend Zoning Map Rezoning a Single Residence Area to Business
To see if the Town will vote to revise the Zoning Map of the Town by taking an area
that is presently zoned Single Residence and changing its designation to Business.
This area to be rezoned is described as follows: The lot of land with building
thereon know as and numbered 242-260 Humphrey Street, Marblehead,
Massachusetts, being Assessor’s Map 4, Parcel 14, as shown on the plan entitled




                                          289
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



“Site Plan 242-260 Humphrey Street, Marblehead, MA, Land of Beach Bluff, LLC”,
dated November 7, 2006, prepared by Kane Land Surveyors, a copy of which plan is
on file in the Office of the Town Clerk, or take any other action relative thereto.
Sponsored by Carl King and others.

Article 29 To amend the existing Zoning Bylaw 200.08 to include the following
paragraphs (c, d and e) as follows:
c. Trailer. Any of the various types of vehicles which depend for mobility on an
attached vehicle or other propelling apparatus, and which are used, or may be used,
for human habitation or for business purposes. Any trailer which by removal of
wheels, by anchoring to a foundation, by incorporation with a fixed structure or
otherwise has its mobility reduced, shall never the less be considered as a “trailer”
within the scope of this Bylaw, except trailers having a gross weight of less than one
thousand pounds and whose height does not exceed four feet.
d. Accessory Trailer/Residential Districts. A non commercial trailer may be stored
in a residential district only on premises owned or occupied by the owner of the
trailer, and only if either within or to the rear of the principal building, and not within
any required yard. Such trailer may not be used for habitation, storage of materials,
or any business purposes.
e. Non Residential Districts. Trailer may be stored as an accessory use in non
residential districts provided that no such trailer shall be used for habitation of the
storage of goods or merchandise. Sponsored by Alfred Doherty and others.

Article 30 Improvements at Gerry Playground
To see if the Town will vote to approve a sum of money for the construction of a pier
and related land side improvements at Gerry playground or take any other action
related thereto. Sponsored by Harbors and Waters.

Article 31 Delegation of Designation of the Permitting Authority for Trench
Safety
To see if the Town will, pursuant to G.L. c 82A §2, vote to designate the Board of
Selectmen as the means by which the Town shall designate the Board or Officer to
issue permits for the purpose of creating a trench as that term is defined by G.L. c.
82A §4 and 520 CMR 14.00 (collectively the “Trench Safety Law”) and that the
Board of Selectmen may adopt reasonable regulations for the carrying out of said
Trench Safety Law, or to take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen.




                                          290
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



Article 32 Petition the Legislature Relative to the Office of Chief of the
Marblehead Fire Department
To vote to petition the Legislature to amend Chapter 216 of the Acts of 1939, by
striking out the words in Section 1, at sentence 3, “Appointments to such office shall
be made after a competitive civil service examination open only to citizens of said
town;” and inserting in place thereof the following: “Appointments to such office
shall be made after a departmental civil service promotional examination.”
Sponsored by the Chief of Fire Department.

Article 33 Accept the Affordable Housing Trust Fund, General Laws Chapter
44 Section 55C
To see if the Town will vote to accept the provisions of General Laws Chapter 44
Section 55C establishing a trust to be known as the Marblehead Affordable Housing
Trust Fund, whose purpose shall be to provide for the creation and preservation of
affordable housing in the Town for the benefit of low and moderate income
households, or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen/Smart Growth Committee.

Article 34 Amend the General By-Laws of the Town and Create an Affordable
Housing Trust Fund
To see if the Town will vote to amend the General By-Laws of the Town by adding
the following in Chapter 24 as Article IX as follows:

  ARTICLE IX MARBLEHEAD AFFORDABLE HOUSING TRUST FUND

         24-23. Purpose; Membership; Appointment

         There shall be a board of trustees of the Marblehead Affordable Housing
         Trust Fund established by the vote under Article 34 of the Warrant for the
         2008 Annual Town Meeting, in this section called the board, which shall
         include nine (9) trustees, including all of the members of the Board of
         Selectmen, with the remaining members to be appointed by the Board of
         Selectmen. Trustees shall serve for a term not to exceed two (2) years. A
         quorum of the board of trustees shall be five (5) members.

         24-24. Powers

         The powers of the board, all of which shall be carried on in furtherance of
         the purposes set forth in General Laws Chapter 44 Section 55C, shall
         include the following:




                                        291
         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




(A)        subject to Town Meeting approval, to accept and receive
real property, by gift, grant, devise, or transfer from any person, firm,
corporation or other public or private entity;

(B)         to accept and receive tangible property or financial gifts,
by gift, grant, devise, or transfer from any person, firm, corporation
or other public or private entity, including without limitation grants
of funds or other property, not real property, tendered to the trust in
connection with provisions of the Town of Marblehead Zoning By-
law or any other Town by-law;

  (C)      subject to Town Meeting approval, to purchase and retain
real property;

  (D) to purchase and retain personal property, including without
restriction investments that yield a high rate of income or no income;

  (E)      subject to Town Meeting approval, to sell, lease,
exchange, transfer or convey any real property at public auction or
by private contract for such consideration and on such terms as to
credit or otherwise, and to make such contracts and enter into such
undertaking relative to trust property as the board deems advisable
notwithstanding the length of any such lease or contract;

  (F)    to sell, lease, exchange, transfer or convey any personal,
property at public auction or by private contract for such
consideration and on such terms as to credit or otherwise, and to
make such contracts and enter into such undertaking relative to trust
property as the board deems advisable notwithstanding the length of
any such lease or contract;

   (G)     to execute, acknowledge and deliver deeds, assignments,
transfers, pledges, leases, covenants, contracts, promissory notes,
releases and other instruments sealed or unsealed, necessary, proper
or incident to any transaction in which the board engages for the
accomplishment of the purposes of the trust and if given proper
authority as noted above;

  (H)      to employ advisors and agents, such as accountants,




                         292
        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



appraisers and lawyers as the board deems necessary;

  (I)     to pay reasonable compensation and expenses to all
advisors and agents and to apportion such compensation between
income and principal as the board deems advisable;

  (J)       to apportion receipts and charges between incomes and
principal as the board deems advisable, to amortize premiums and
establish sinking funds for such purpose, and to create reserves for
depreciation depletion or otherwise;

   (K)      to participate in any reorganization, recapitalization,
merger or similar transactions; and to give proxies or powers of
attorney with or without power of substitution to vote any securities
or certificates of interest; and to consent to any contract, lease,
mortgage, purchase or sale of property, by or between any
corporation and any other corporation or person;

  (L)      to deposit any security with any protective reorganization
committee, and to delegate to such committee such powers and
authority with relation thereto as the board may deem proper and to
pay, out of trust property, such portion of expenses and
compensation of such committee as the board may deem necessary
and appropriate;

  (M)      to carry property for accounting purposes other than
acquisition date values;

  (N)       to borrow money on such terms and conditions and from
such sources as the board deems advisable and to mortgage and
pledge trust assets as collateral;

  (O)      to make distributions or divisions of principal in kind;

  (P)       to compromise, attribute, defend, enforce, release, settle
or otherwise adjust claims in favor or against the trust, including
claims for taxes, and to accept any property, either in total or partial
satisfaction of any indebtedness or other obligation, and subject to
the provisions of Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 44, Section
55C, to continue to hold the same for such period of time as the




                         293
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



               board may deem appropriate;

                  (Q)      to manage or improve real property;

                 (R)     subject to approval of Town Meeting, to abandon any
               property which the board determined not to be worth retaining;

                 (S)     to hold all or part of the trust property uninvested for such
               purposes and for such time as the board may deem appropriate;

                  (T)      to extend the time for payment of any obligation to the
               trust.

                 (U)      to adopt rules and regulations for the purpose of carrying
               out its responsibilities and powers and in furtherance of the
               provisions hereof .


And to do all of the foregoing without funding from the Town of Marblehead but by
receipts generated and/or earned, received, bequeathed, gifted or devised in
accordance herewith. Or take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of
Selectmen/Smart Growth Committee.

Article 35 Land Acquisition, Naugus Avenue
To see if the Town of Marblehead will vote to acquire for recreation purposes a fee
simple interest in certain parcel(s) of land totaling approximately three acres,
commonly known as the WESX property, located on Naugus Avenue, owned by
ATCO Inc. or the Trust for Public Land, which are shown on Marblehead Assessors
Maps as Map 176 Lot 16, which land shall be held in the care and custody of the
Board of Selectmen for recreation purposes; that a sum of money be appropriated for
such purpose and to raise such appropriation, the Treasurer be authorized to borrow
under and pursuant to Chapter 44, Section 7 and 8C, of the General Laws or any
other enabling authority, and to issue bonds or notes of the Town therefor; provided
that the amount authorized to be borrowed hereunder shall be contingent upon the
vote of the Town Election to exempt from the provisions of Proposition 2-1/2, so
called, the amount required to satisfy the obligations, including principal and
interest, under the bonds; and further that the Board of Selectmen shall be authorized
to file on behalf of the Town of Marblehead any and all applications deemed
necessary for grants and /or reimbursements from the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts or the United States under the Self-Help Act (Chapter 132A, Section




                                        294
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



11) and/or any other state or federal programs including those in aid recreation land
acquisition and to receive and accept such grants and reimbursements, including
grants from private parties, for this purpose and/or any others in any way connected
with the scope of this Article; and the conjunction with the Board of Selectmen shall
be authorized to transfer the amount of any financial contributions received by the
Town of Marblehead designated for the purchase of the Naugus Avenue land to the
Trust for Public Land; and the Board of Selectmen shall be authorized to enter into
all agreements and to execute any and all instruments as may be necessary on behalf
of The Town of Marblehead to affect said purchase, or take any other action in
relation thereto. Sponsored by Board of Selectmen.

Article 36 Payment in Lieu of Tax (“PILOT”) Agreement
To vote to approve the payment in lieu of Tax (“PILOT”) Agreement between the
Town of Marblehead and the Alliance Health of Massachusetts, Inc., with respect to
the property known as the Devereux House and located at 39 Lafayette Street,
Marblehead, Massachusetts. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen/Board of
Assessors.

Article 37 Landfill Assessment and Regulatory Compliance Activities
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the
Board of Health for continued water quality monitoring, soil gas monitoring, risk
assessment, engineering and any other services related to the Old Landfill; to
determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; or
take any action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Health.

Article 38 School Department Computer, Support Equipment, and Technology
Infrastructure.
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
purchasing computers, technology infrastructure, support software and equipment
and necessary accessory furnishings and to raise the money for these purposes by the
issuance of bonds or notes or in any other manner, or take any other action relative
thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 39 Schools Construction and or Renovation Program
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
remodeling, constructing, furnishing or making extraordinary repairs, including all
professional feasibility studies, design, architectural and engineering fees, to the
Gerry, Coffin, Bell, Eveleth, Glover, Village, Veterans Middle and High School
and/or any other schools and their respective playing fields, and to raise the money




                                       295
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



for these purposes by the issue of bonds or notes or in any other manner, or take any
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 40 Transfer of Proceeds from Marblehead Veterans Middle School
To see if the Town will vote to transfer the remaining proceeds of the borrowing for
the Marblehead Veterans Middle School project authorized under votes of the Town
passed November 5, 2001 for the purpose of remodeling, reconstructing and making
extraordinary repairs to, including professional and architectural and engineering
fees, the present Village School and the present Gerry, Glover and Eveleth Schools.
Sponsored by the School Committee.

Article 41 School Department, Classroom Door and Lock Security Initiative
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of
purchasing security apparatus and appropriate door and lock hardware and other
materials for classrooms and other spaces for the schools for the purpose of
classroom, meeting room and office security during school lock downs and to raise
the money for these purposes by the issuance of bonds or notes or in any other
manner, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the School
Committee.

Article 42 Fiscal 2008 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, to defray the
necessary and usual expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal
year beginning July 1, 2007, to be added to Article 56 of the May 2007 Annual
Town Meeting, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Finance
Department.

Article 43 Available Funds Appropriate to Reduce Tax Rate
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate free cash balance in the hands of the
Town Treasurer, including any surplus or part of any surplus, in the Water, Sewer,
Harbor and Waters and Electric Light Departments for the use of the Assessors in
making the tax rate or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the
Finance Department.

Article 44 Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the necessary and
usual expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2008, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Finance
Department.




                                       296
                        MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT




Article 45 Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
To see what sums of money the Town will raise and appropriate, including
appropriations from Federal Revenue Sharing moneys, to defray the supplemental
expenses of the several departments of the Town for the fiscal year beginning July 1,
2008, or take any other action relative thereto, as sponsored by the Finance
Department.




                                       297
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



You are hereby further required and directed to notify and warn the Inhabitants of
the Town of Marblehead aforesaid who are qualified to vote in elections and in
Town affairs to subsequently meet at the several designated polling places in their
respective precincts in said Marblehead to wit:

In Precinct 1 - Polling Place –
OLD TOWN HOUSE
In Precinct 2 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 3 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 4 - Polling Place –
STAR OF THE SEA COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 5 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 6 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER
In Precinct 7 - Polling Place –
MARBLEHEAD COMMUNITY CENTER

on Monday, the 12th day of May next A.D. 2008 (it being the second Monday in
May) at 7 o’clock in the forenoon then and there to bring into the precinct officers of
their respective precincts their votes on one ballot for the following-named Town
Officers to wit:

5 Selectmen
1 Assessor
1 Cemetery Commissioner
1 Cemetery Commissioner for a 2 year
   unexpired term
1 Board of Health
1 Housing Authority
2 Library Trustees
1 Electric Light Commissioner
1 Moderator
2 Planning Board
1 Planning Board for a 2 year unexpired
   term
5 Recreation & Park Commissioners
2 School Committee
2 Water and Sewer Commissioners




                                        298
                         MARBLEHEAD TOWN REPORT



For these purposes the polls will be open at each and all of said precincts at 7 o’clock
in the forenoon and will be closed at 8 o’clock in the afternoon at each and all of said
precincts and you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested copies
thereof at Abbot Hall and ten (10) other conspicuous places in Town as required by
the By-laws not later than thirty (30) days after being closed.

         Hereof fail not and make due return of this Warrant or a certified copy
thereof with our doings thereon, to each of the several precinct wardens at the time
and place of meetings aforesaid and to the Town Clerk as soon as may be before the
said meetings.

         Given under our hands at Marblehead aforesaid this 13th day of February
2008.

____________________________________
HARRY C. CHRISTENSEN, JR., Chairman

____________________________________
       JACKIE BELF-BECKER

____________________________________
         JUDITH R. JACOBI

____________________________________
          JAMES E. NYE

____________________________________
       WILLIAM L. WOODFIN, II

         Selectmen of Marblehead

A True Copy
Attest:
Constable




                                         299
                         Departmental Information
Emergency:
FIRE                                                   911
POLICE                                                 911

(Note: All phone numbers are 781 Area Code unless otherwise noted.)
Assessments                          Assessors                    631-0236
Birth, Marriage & Death Certificates Town Clerk                   631-0528
Board of Appeals (Zoning)            Engineering                  631-1529
Building Permits                     Building                     631-2220
Burial Permits                       Health                       631-0212
Cemetery                             Cemetery                     631-1182
Collector of Taxes                   Finance                      631-0587
Council on Aging                     Council on Aging             631-6737
Elections                            Town Clerk                   631-0528
Finance Director                     Finance                      631-1705
Fire Prevention                      Fire Dept.                   639-3428
Fuel Oil Storage                     Fire Dept.                   639-3428
Harbormaster                         Harbormaster                 631-2386
Health                               Health Dept.                 631-0212
Historical Commission                Selectmen’s Office           639-3425
Library                              Abbot Public Libr.           631-1480
Licenses – alcohol, common victualer
  entertainment, second hand         Selectmen’s Office           631-0000
Licenses – marriage, dog              Town Clerk                  631-0528
Plumbing Pemits                      Building                     639-9151
Police Administration                Police Dept.                 631-1212
Recreation                           Recreation & Park            631-3350
Schools:                             Administration               639-3141
                                     High School                  639-3103
                                     Veterans Middle School       639-3120
                                     Village School               639-3159
                                     Bell                         639-3171
                                     Coffin                       639-3181
                                     Gerry                        639-3186
                                     Glover                       639-3191
                                     Eveleth                      639-3196
Streets, Sidewalks                   Public Works                 631-1750
Town Administrator                   Selectmen                    631-0000
Town Treasurer                       Finance                      631-1033
Trees                                Park & Rec.                  631-3350
Veterans’ Benefits                   Veterans’ Agent              631-0990
Water & Sewer                        Water & Sewer                631-2694
Weights & Measures                   Sealer                       631-0990
Wiring Permits                       Building                     639-9151
Zoning Enforcement                   Building                     631-2220

FEDERAL AND STATE SENATORS AND REPRESENTATIVES:
US Senators:                Edward M. Kennedy 617-565-3170
                            John F. Kerry     617-565-8519
US Representative (6th Dt.) John F. Tierney   978-531-1669
MA Representative (8th Dt.) Lori Ehrlich      617-722-2090
MA Senator (3rd Dt.):       Thomas M. McGee   617-722-1350
