                               Marblehead School Committee
                                      October 1, 2020
                                          7:00 PM
               Zoom Conference - Meeting ID 99088738269 & Password: 617244
      https://zoom.us/j/99088738269?pwd=bzRTc0hFQmF5ak03dmpZb3BhZzEyUT09
                        Dial In (415) 762-9988 with ID and follow prompts
                                    Meeting ID 99088738269

I.I nitial Business and Public Comment
      1. Sarah Gold called the meeting to order at 7:05 pm
      2. Commendations
               Dr. Buckey stated he reached out to School Principals and asked what
               commendation they would like to provide.

                Dan Bauer, said it was difficult to widdle commendations down because so many
                deserved them. He highlighted three groups. Mr Bauer introduced Ms Billings
                who gave a brief highlight of what is happening in the peer mentor
                program. Peer leader, Cori McCormick highlighted his experience in the peer
                mentor program and some positive feedback concerning changes with Covid-
                19. Mr. Bauer next commended Team Harmony and advisor Candice
                Sliney. Ms. Sliney thanked Jason Silva and the Board of Selectmen for including
                the students of Team Harmony in one of their meetings this summer. Alexis
                Earp presented a slide highlighting team harmony’s work on the Breaking
                Barriers campaign. Mr. Bauer next introduced the National Green Honor
                Society. Mr Connor Ryan who advises this group and Sophia Hauck. Ms Hauck
                gave a brief overview of the work that is being done including their partnership
                with Sustainable Marblehead and Spur.

                Dr Buckey made a commendation to all the principals and assistant principals in
                honor of National Principal month.

                Meghan Taylor made a commendation to Dr Buckey for including what is
                happening in the schools via commendations

                Mr. Harris agreed with Ms.Taylor that he appreciates hearing what is happening
                in the highschool.

                Sarah Fox made a commodation for all the teachers who are working double
                time right now. Ms. Fox also recognised the Special Education department for a
                positive start to the school year, noting she had received a lot of praise for the
                outreach prior to and during the first few weeks of school.

                Emily Barron wanted to commend all the students who presented tonight despite
                a large audience.

 3.      Student Representative - Dan Howells

         Dan Howells stated students have become accustomed to the new schedule. Mr.
         Howells noted the highschool students will start the hybrid in person portion next
         week He noted teachers have already been informing students what to expect when
     they start in person learning next week. Mr. Howels noted freshman orientation went
     very well. Mr. Howells commended the guidance department for all the work that has
     gone into working out schedules and giving students information for college
     application. He noted every student had a handwritten note from guidance when they
     picked up their books.

4.   Public Comment

     Jessica Bennedetto 8 Bradley Road asked for the School Committee to update the
     school transportation policy for all K-8 students living less than 1 mile from school who
     do not have a safe sidewalk to use for walking to school. Ms Bennedetto noted she
     contacted DESE and the police Chief. Ms Bennedtoo asked the SC to update the
     policy.

     Colleen Nials 3 Bowden Street. Ms. Nials commended the communication coming out of
     the highschool. Ms. Nails noted her students were full remote, noting the 6th grade
     program is mimicking a typical day and is successful. Ms. Nialls noted she is concerned
     that the highschool will not meet its required hours for learning by DESE and asked that
     a public forum be given prior to town meeting on October 14.

     Alistair Connor 9 Cloutmans Lane. Ms Connor noted her experience is that the hybrid
     program as implemented is failing learners. Ms. Connor requested an open forum to
     discuss the current hybrid and full remote plans. Ms. Connor expressed concern
     regarding hours on learning.

     Luca Ferro 18 Clifton Height Lane. Mr Ferro introduced himself as sophomore doing a
     full remote plan. Mr. Ferro stated he feels it is very disorganized and it is impacting the
     learning environment. Mr. Ferro stated he was told he would have a complete
     Marblehead teacher rooster for all his classes when he made his decision. He noted the
     NHS and Edgenuity are sub par. Mr. Ferro asked to have teachers available during an
     open time block to answer questions by students. Mr. Ferro noted he likes learning and
     that the current platforms are “soul draining” and that students received no preparation.

     Alexis Earp 41 West Shore Drive. Ms Earp introduced herself as a junior at MHS who
     opted for full remote learning. Ms Earp noted all but one of her classes were outsourced
     and her brother who is a Freshman received no MHS teachers and he felt he was not
     even a MHS student. She noted her brother was moved down a level for french to meet
     what was offered. Ms. Earp noted the remote program is not equitable. She noted the
     solution that was offered was to drop down a level for courses. Ms. Earp noted the
     social and emotional growth of students like herself and her brother are being harmed by
     the current full remote program.

     Chris Elam 34 Tide Wins Terrace. Parent of 1st and 3rd grade students. He noted the
     start so far has been great through remote. Mr Elam noted the asynchronous learning is
     ineffective. He noted he is happy with the teachers but on the remote days there is not
     enough support. Mr Elam requested a public forum. Mr Elam asked to make the goal
     for a full return to in person learning.

     Xhazzie Kindle 163 Jersey Street Ms Kindle noted her concern that parents are being
     told they are part of a vocal minority. Ms Kindle noted her children are doing fine but
      that there are many children who are not. Ms Kindle requested an open forum. Ms
      Kindle stated concerns regarding curriculum being taught when time on learning is only
      25% what it should be. Ms. Kindle asked if the warrant article for an override would be
      used this year to facilitate a return to learning. Ms Kindle stated “It's time to keep the
      kids safe and it's time to give them an education.”

      Carl Rogers 15 Hines Court unit4. Mr Rogers stated schools in Massachusetts officially
      closed 5 months prior to the reopening this fall. He thanked teachers for doing an
      amazing job. Mr noted the financial burden of the current plan. Mr Rogers stated our
      children need to be able to attend school. Mr. Rogers feels we are doing a disservice to
      our children with the current situation.

      Blair Nelson, Elm St. Mr Nelson thanks the teachers for stepping up to the plate. Mr.
      Nelson commented that the amount of parent support needed is unreasonable and that
      not enough time on learning is being achieved. Mr. Nelson noted these problems are
      not new problems. Mr Nelson requested an open forum. Mr Nelson commended the
      students who spoke on their bravery.

      Dawn Johns 9 West Cottage. Ms Johns asked if the school district looked into owl
      cameras for the classroom.

      Erin Noonan Beverly Ave. Ms Noonan shared concerns and requested a public
      forum. Ms. Noonan stated she is concerned about teacher burnout with what she sees
      as unachievable expectations being put on them with the hybrid program and she also
      does not believe we will provide an adequate education for children with a lack of time
      on learning.

      Kelly Szalewicz 23 Devereaux Street. Ms Szalewicz thanked teachers for the wonderful
      effort. Ms Szalewicz noted the current plan does not have enough time on learning and
      that there is too much pressure put on parents to facilitate learning remotely. Ms
      Szalewicz asked for live instruction from the classroom. Ms Szaleqwicz requested an
      open forum.



II.   Consent Agenda and Action Items

      Motion to approve minutes from June 18,2020, July 28, 2020 and August 14, 2020

      Moved by Meaghan Taylor
      Seconded by David Harris

      Roll Call Vote

      Sarah Gold Yes
      Meagan Taylor Yes
      Sarah Fox     Yes
      David Harris Yes
      Emily Barron Yes
       Motion passes 5-0

III. Superintendent Report
     1. Fall 1 Sport update Greg Ceglarski
        Greg Ceglarski gave an update on the opening. Mr. Ceglariski noted there is a check in
        process that is staggered. It allows for contract tracing and to ensure that everyone is in
        good health. Games start next week. Mr Ceglarski commended the entire coaching
        staff and noted it has been a positive experience for coaches and athletes.

       Mr Harris asked for a summary of the teams that are playing sports this fall.

       Ms. Gold said she appreciates that the athletics were brought down to the middle school
       level.

       Ms Taylor said she is very excited for the student athletes and asked what the
       participation numbers are. Mr Ceglarski said overall the numbers are up in the individual
       sports.

       Mr Ceglarski reviewed the transportation waiver. He noted that in the 20/21 school year
       that student athletes are only allowed to drive with a parent or guardian to competitions
       and that no student can transport themselves.

       Motion to accept the transportation waiver form as presented by Greg Ceglarski and our
       attorney

       Moved by David Harris
       Seconded by Emily Barron

       Roll Call Vote

       Sarah Gold             Yes
       Meagan Taylor          Yes
       Sarah Fox              Yes
       David Harris           Yes
       Emily Barron           Yes

       Motion passes 5-0


2.     Hybrid Model Transition Update

       Dr Buckey thanked everyone for their public comment. Dr. Buckey shared a map of
       what area schools are hybrid vs full remote. Dr. Buckey noted he is planning surveys in
       coming months and shared his plan to create a “culture of constant growth” Dr Buckey
       shared a slide showing how he uses community feedback and provides results and
       urged everyone to maintain a collaborative approach.

       Sarah Fox commended the students who spoke up.

       Nan Murphy
       Dan Bauer noted the scheduling was a very difficult task this year. Mr. Bauer
       commended guidance on doing their best to accommodate scheduling. Mr. Bauer noted
       he is looking at creative ways to make changes when appropriate.

       Emily Barron voiced concerns with full remote students not having a subject matter
       contact for the high school classes. Ms. Barron also asked if there is a way to group the
       full remote students, particularly freshman, in a live zoom so they can make
       connections. Dr Buckey noted the highschool and middle school have advisories and
       that would be a good avenue for achieving these connections.

       Meaghan Taylor asked Nan Murphy to talk about the feedback she has gotten about
       consistency and what plans she has for responding to that feedback. Ms. Murphy noted
       the biggest frustration from early elementary is with students being able to function in the
       remote setting independently. Ms. Murphy noted the need for differentiation in remote
       assignments. Ms. Murphy talked about access for shared access folders at the high
       school level for students from remote who may want to see what their peers in the hybrid
       model are receiving. Ms. Murphy is asking people to make tutorials that can assist
       parents with what they will need to support their students in the home. It was stated
       there is a focus on alignment. Ms. Murphy noted she discusses all the time how we will
       meet the standards and pull out power standards which are essential to access further
       standards in the curriculum. Ms Murphy talked about the need for pacing in an efficient
       and effective manner. Ms. Taylor noted it is good to hear what tweeks are happening on
       a regular basis.

       Ms. Taylor asked what the organization was regarding expectation. Ms. Taylor asked
       for a week look ahead for students.

3.     Superintendent’s Goals
       Dr. Buckey presented his goals for the year. Dr. Buckeys goals fell into three sections:
       professional practice, student learning, and improving diversity.

       Sarah Gold noted it is exciting to see these things progressing despite our current
       situation with Covid-19. Emily Barron asked Dr. Buckey to set dates for updates of
       progress goals to date. Ms. Taylor noted regular updates would be helpful.

       Ms Fox asked if we as a school committee will set goals. Ms Gold noted it was needed
       last year but this year is a different situation.

       Ms Barron suggested we make goals. Ms Taylor agreed with Ms Barron and Ms Gold
       said she would make sure to add that to the next agenda.

       Mr Harris noted all goals tend to have a budget requirement and asked if there could be
       a budget alignment for each goal. Mr Harris gave an example of the new school and
       how we would need to budget for the new school having what it needs.

IV. Finance Organization Support
    1. Schedule of Bills

       Motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totalling $2,613,540.85
       Moved by Emily Barron
       Seconded by David Harris

       Roll Call Vote

       Sarah Gold             Yes
       Meagan Taylor          Yes
       Sarah Fox              Yes
       David Harris           Yes
       Emily Barron           Yes
       Motion passes 5-0

V. School Committee communications and discussion items

     1. MASC updates

       Sarah Gold discussed the annual meeting. Ms. Gold discussed the list of resolutions
       available and noted that if anyone would like one added to the agenda to let her know.

       Sarah Fox asked about the MASC webinars. Ms Gold said she is planning to talk to
       Dorothy Presser to see if there is an affiliated cost to attend these webinars.

       Social Media Webinar

       Meagan Taylor stated the MASC webinar on Social Media was very helpful and talked
       about the need for a balance between a private citizen and a School Committee
       Member. Ms Taylor cautioned that School Committee members need to be conscious of
       how they are using Social Media. Ms. Gold stated the take away was not that we as
       school committee members should not partake in Social Media.

2.     School Committee website update.

       Ms. Taylor provided a demo of the proposed School Committee. Ms. Taylor thanked
       Kate Thomson for her volunteer effort of making the school Committee website and
       stated Ms Thomson did everything for free.

       Sarah Fox asked if documents that are being discussed can be uploaded to the site
       linked to the calendar. Ms. Taylor stated that was the intent. Mr Harris noted a concern
       regarding making documents available to the public prior to meetings.

3. Subcommittee updates

       Meaghan Taylor noted there will be a regular Budget Subcommittee meeting at every
       2nd Thursday of the month at 8:30 am. Sarah Fox asked if the meetings would be a
       zoom. Ms Taylor stater the first one would be and after that they hopefully will be live.

       Sarah Gold gave an update on the policy subcommittee and noted they will be starting to
       review all the policies starting with the I policies.
       Sarah Fox stated she will reach out to Michele Cresta and Todd Bloodgood to get an
       idea when Facilities should meet next.

4. Building Project update
        David Harris shared an image of the current School building project. Mr. Harris noted
        there is a walkabout for the building committee for next Tuesday. Mr Harris noted we
        have submitted the 100% construction documents to the MSBA. He also noted that at
        the 90% Construction Document budget review we were under budget. The brick is due
        to arrive in the next few weeks.

VI. Closing Business
    1. New Business
              Sarah Gold noted the next meeting has a scheduling conflict for our second
              October Meeting with open houses for the schools. Sarah Gold suggested
              rescheduling for October 29 which was agreed upon.

              David Harris clarified that town meeting is a continuation of town meeting and
              not a special town meeting. Mr. Harris noted the article 35 for an override will
       not
              be utilized by the school department.

              Sarah Fox requested a formal date be set for an open forum as requested during
              public comment. Dr Buckey stated he planned open forums at the building
              level. Sarah Fox asked that there be an open forum for the remote only people
              separately.


2.     Correspondence
             Dr Buckey wanted to make sure the committee understood why the students are
             not back in buildings 5 days a week. The members of the committee all agreed
             we all understand.

       Sarah Gold adjourned the meeting at 10:18 pm

       Approved 11/5/2020
