                                Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                        Thursday February 25, 2021
                                                  7:00pm
                             Zoom Recording ID 969 7530 1549 & Password 253728

               https://zoom.us/j/96975301549?pwd=MUphUGJ1T2hUV0ZrTzNCTGc0MmR2dz09

Members Present:          Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

Also:                     John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                          Sean Satterfield, Coffin School Principal
                          Amanda Rivers, School Nurse
                          Michelle Cresta Director of Finance


I.      Initial Business and Public Involvement
        Call to Order
        Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:01pm

        Commendations
        a. School Committee Commendations
            Ms. Taylor recognized nurse, Amanda Rivers for her work with coordinating Pool
               Testing
            Ms. Gold commended the cast of Urine Town for their performances in the musical
            Ms. Gold recognized the student art work on display at the National Grand Bank and
               directed the community to visit the committee website to review the students who were
               honored with a Scholastic Arts and Writing Award
            Mr. Harris mentioned the ski team for finishing top in the league. He congratulated the
               Marblehead All Star skiers who placed 1st-5th in the league:

        b.   Building Based Commendations-Coffin School, Principal Satterfield
             Principal Satterfield thanked the following staff for their hard work during the school year:
             Classroom teachers
             Counseling team
             Special Education Teachers

        c.   Student Representative – Dan Howells
              Football, volleyball and baseball are all occurring in April
              The ski teams, basketball and hockey teams were recognized for their successful sports
                 seasons
              Football team is fundraising for equipment and the link to contribute will be shared
              Course selection process has begun for 9-11th grade
              Scholarship process for Seniors is beginning
              Family Feud will take place next Wednesday and will be hosted by Senior Advisors

                 Ms. Fox requested that Mr. Howells share more information about the Senior Project at
                 an upcoming meeting.

        d.   Public Comment
             Ms. Gold noted that public comment would be limited to fifteen minutes. She explained that if
             there was a request for an additional public comment at the end of the meeting, the members
             could vote to allow it.
           Catherine Martin of 29 W Shor Dr. referenced the recent budget subcommittee she attended in
           which the Elementary and Secondary School Emergency Relief Fund (ESSER) grant was
           discussed. She spoke in favor of using the funds to support the direct needs of the students.

           Jess Benedetto of Bradley Rd. spoke in favor of returning children back to school full time
           with 3ft social distancing noting the mounting evidence supporting claims that it would be
           safe to do so. Ms. Benedetto offered suggestions on how to safely plan for the return to full
           time in person learning.

           Alexia Kearney read a petition that was being signed by community members in favor of
           returning students to full time learning with 3ft social distancing.

           ICU nurse Jennifer Eaton voiced her concern with returning only the elementary grade levels
           to more in person instruction and not the middle and high school students. Ms. Eaton’s
           thirteen-year-old daughter, Megan took a moment to speak about the difficulties of learning
           remote and how much more difficult it was for students on IEP’s and with ADHD.

           Ms. Gold informed the committee that the fifteen minutes for public comment had been
           reached and confirmed there would be a motion for an additional public comment at the end
           of the meeting.

 II.   Consent Agenda and Action Items
       Minutes:1/21/2021
       Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the minutes from January 21 st, 2021. The motion was moved
       by Mr. Harris and seconded by Ms. Taylor.

       Ms. Fox inquired whether an updated version had been added to the Dropbox to which Ms. Gold
       responded that she did not believe any changes were made as Ms. Fox had not submitted her edits
       for clarification.

       A roll call vote was taken and the motion passed all in favor, 5-0.
       Ms. Gold-yes
       Ms. Taylor-yes
       Ms. Barron-yes
       Ms. Fox-yes
       Mr. Harris-yes

       Approval to Declare Obsolete Technology as Surplus

       Ms. Gold asked for a motion to allow the items from the memo to be deemed as surplus and
       recycled. The motion was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor. A roll call vote was
       take and the motion passed all in favor, 5-0.

       Ms. Gold-yes
       Ms. Taylor-yes
       Ms. Barron-yes
       Ms. Fox-yes
       Mr. Harris-yes


III.   Superintendent Report
       Superintendent Buckey reminded the community that the return of Kindergarten through 6 th grade
       students does not require negotiations with the union. It was shared that the committee would meet
       again to vote a date for the return of students grades 7 th-12th after family survey results were
       shared. Superintendent Buckey did clarify that renegotiations with the union for the Memorandum
of Agreement (MOA) were beginning and that updates regarding the renegotiations would be
shared once an agreement was made.

A discussion regarding how to opt in and out of the current learning models took place and it was
confirmed that the trimester breaks would be the only time to do so.

Pooled Testing Update
Nurse Amanda Rivers provided an update on pool testing sign up and the ordering of supplies. She
shared that a neighboring town was requiring mandatory testing for all sports participants which
could be a consideration for Marblehead. Ms. Rivers explained her plan for how to test and which
days/times of the day.

Superintended Buckey explained that the free program for pool testing had been extended to seven
(7) weeks which would carry the district through April break.

Ms. Fox made a motion to mandate sports to pool test. The motion was seconded by Ms. Gold and
shared that the mandate may be pending legal guidance. A conversation regarding whether to vote
or table the motion until the committee receives information from legal took place. After a
discussion occurred and a recommendation to vote the motion was suggested, a roll call vote was
taken. Dr. Buckey noted that the vote to mandate pool testing for sports could be added to the next
agenda. The motion failed with a vote of 2-3.

Ms. Gold-yes
Ms. Taylor-no
Ms. Barron-no
Ms. Fox-yes
Mr. Harris-no

Committee members Taylor and Harris clarified that they were not voting against pool testing and
were in favor of voting whether to mandate it for sports after receiving more information at the
next meeting.

Contracts: Custodians, Paraprofessionals, Tutors and Permanent Subs

Superintendent Buckey noted the cafeteria collective bargaining agreement was omitted from the
agenda and that he would like to include them with the vote.

Superintendent Buckey also explained that the committee would be voting two motions, one to
accept the agreements and one to approve a subcommittee for reviewing contract language.

Ms. Taylor confirmed whether the subcommittee already in place would remain the same to which
Dr. Buckey confirmed that it would for the administration and that individual representatives for
each unit would be included.

Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) for collective
bargaining agreements with the MEA-Custodians, Cafeteria, Paraprofessionals, Tutors and
Permanent Substitute contracts beginning at the start of the 2021 school year through August 31,
2024 as presented. The motion was moved by Mr. Harris and seconded by Ms. Taylor. A roll call
vote was taken and the motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

Ms. Gold-yes
Ms. Taylor-yes
Ms. Barron-yes
Ms. Fox-yes
Mr. Harris-yes
      Ms. Gold made a second motion to approve the establishment off subcommittees to investigate
      and report out findings or recommendations to the parties for consideration on negotiations
      regarding which changes. The motion was moved Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. The
      motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

      Ms. Gold-yes
      Ms. Taylor-yes
      Ms. Barron-yes
      Ms. Fox-yes
      Mr. Harris-yes

      2019-2020SY Town Report Submission
      Superintendent Buckey shared that each principal contributed to the Town Report personalizing
      the experience of the 2019-2020 school year which he appreciated as he felt it was difficult to
      share information about a school year in which he was not working in district.

IV.   Finance Organizational Support
      Monthly Financial Report
      Ms. Cresta shared a monthly financial report update sharing the following:
       44% of the operating budget had been expended through the end of January
       Out of District Tuition costs had decreased slightly
       Substitute teaching costs has accounted for 13% of the budget
       Two additional sources of funding for COVID related costs have been received
          1) The State Coronavirus Prevention Fund for $98,175 which should help with identified
              technology needs
          2) ESSER II Grant for $364,464 which can be spent through September of 2023

      FY22 Budget Update
      Ms. Cresta shared a list of identified budget priorities and their associated budgeted dollar amount.
      The addition of staff for the new elementary school was included along with an integration
      technology specialist, leases for new phones, wireless connections and network switching,
      instructional specialists, funding for a new math program, an H.R Director and a Community
      Relations Liaison. Ms. Cresta shared a budget tracking sheet and informed the committee that the
      current target difference between the Town and the schools was a total gap of $974k

      Contract to Award for Fiber Connection
      Ms. Gold made a motion to approve a one-time contract for the design and installation of a fiber
      connection covering all school locations to Comm-Tract of Boxborough, MA in the amount of
      $79,900 and to authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the committee.

      The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox. The motion passes, 5-0 all in
      favor.

      Ms. Gold-yes
      Ms. Taylor-yes
      Ms. Barron-yes
      Ms. Fox-yes
      Mr. Harris-yes


      Schedule of Bills
      Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $406,863.10. The
      motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken. The
      motion passes, 4-0-1.
     Ms. Gold-yes
     Ms. Taylor-yes
     Ms. Barron-yes
     Ms. Fox-abstained
     Mr. Harris-yes
V.   School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
     Ms. Gold explained that some policies would not need to be discussed and apologized for the error
     in adding them to the agenda. It was decided that the face masks policy vote would be pushed to
     the next meeting since the district would have another week to review and revise it if needed prior
     to students returning to full in person learning. She further explained that the rest of the policies to
     be voted were part of the last meeting that ran too long and were held due to the length of the
     meeting.

     Review and Vote of Policies:
     EBCFA Face Coverings
     Ms. Taylor asked for clarification regarding the reference to the 10ft distancing in the mask policy
     to which Ms. Gold explained that it was in direct relation to the activities being performed.

     IHAM - Health Education
     IHAM-R - Health Education Exemption Procedure
     IHAMA - Parent Notification Relative to Sex Education
     IHAMB - Teaching About Alcohol, Tobacco & Drugs
     FFA - Memorials

     Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the changes to policies IHAM, IHAM-R, IHAMA, IHAMB
     and FFA. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox. A roll call vote was
     taken. The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

     Ms. Gold-yes
     Ms. Taylor-yes
     Ms. Barron-yes
     Ms. Fox-yes
     Mr. Harris-yes

     Review of Policies:
     Ms. Gold informed the committee that the only policies that would be reviewed were the
     following:

     IHBAA Observations of Special Education Programs
     IHCA Summer Schools

     She also noted that the J policies were being reviewed to update the policies per DESE
     recommendation after a recent review of the Student Services Department. She confirmed that the
     policies would be voted at the next meeting.

     JFABD Homeless Students-Enrollment Rights and Services
     JFABE Educational Opportunities for Military Children
     JFABF Educational Opportunities for Children in Foster Care

     Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
     Ms. Fox shared that she was awaiting the facilities assessment to be returned to which Ms. Cresta
     explained that a draft should be received within the next three weeks.

     Ms. Gold requested that the minutes for the facilities subcommittee be sent to Emily so they could
     be posted.
           There were no METCO or SEPAC updates.

           Building Project Update
           Mr. Harris shared photos from updates to the new elementary school noting the exciting new state
           of the art kitchen.

           He shared the school mosaic would be revealed at an upcoming meeting and then the final
           planning for the playground and landscaping would be next.

VI.        Closing Business
      1.   New Business
           none
      2.   Correspondence
           Ms. Gold shared information about the plan for a pump track at the high school and a biking
           project proposal at the Green Street Woods property.

           A conversation about liabilities related to leasing the property for such use took place.

           Ms. Fox confirmed that the project would not impede on wetlands and Ms. Taylor mentioned the
           involvement with the Marblehead Conservancy.

           Ms. Gold mentioned that there would be a larger conversation about land use with the Town.

           Ms. Gold made a motion to approve a second public comment. The motion was moved by Ms.
           Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox. A roll call vote was taken.

           Ms. Gold-yes
           Mr. Harris-yes
           Ms. Taylor Fox
           Ms. Barron

           Kelly Szalewicz of 23 Railroad St. voiced her disagreement with sending the 7th-12th graders back
           to more in person learning later than the Kindergarten-6th graders.

           Emily DeWitt was unreachable for comment

           Mary McCarriston thanked all of the committee members and administrators sharing that she has
           had an incredible remote experience for her child this year.

           Jeff St. George voiced his concern with limiting public comment and public involvement.

           Erin Noonan of 15 Beverly Av. Spoke in favor of allowing public comment at both the beginning
           and end of the meetings. She spoke in favor of pool testing in support of returning students to
           more in person learning time.

           Scott Solberg thanked the committee for allowing public comment at the end of the meetings and
           reminded the community that everyone is trying and that everyone should remain positive and
           constructive regarding being so close to returning students back to school in person full time.

           Alastar Connor shared that 7th-12th grade students needed more learning time mentioning utilizing
           more outdoor learning space to support extra time.

           Middle school teacher, Fara Wolfson acknowledged all of the teacher still on the call as their days
           usually start early at 5:30am. She recommended focusing on the resiliency of the students during a
           difficult time when a lot of things are out of everyone’s control.
     Amy Whipple thanked the staff at the Village School, middle and high schools. She commended
     student, Megan Eaton for speaking in front of the community about the difficulty of her learning
     experience during the pandemic.

     Jodi Kerble mentioned her concern with switching schedules again which could create a loss of
     learning sharing that the hybrid model has worked for her family.

     Kate Simcoe of Garfield Street asked for the committee to consider the 3ft social distancing so
     students could have an increase in learning time and have an opportunity for more socialization.

3.   Adjournment
     The meeting adjourned at 9:22pm

     Respectfully Submitted,
     Lisa Dimier, Secretary
     Marblehead School Committee

     Approved June 17, 2021
