                               Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                             Tuesday February 9, 2021
                                                     5:00pm
                               Zoom Recording ID 914 5169 9033 & Password 240071

   https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/j/91451699033?pwd=WTFrcG5vc0Q5OWVmN3E4TjZQaEhodz09

Members Present:            Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

Also:                       John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                            Amanda Rivers, School Nurse
                            Principals:
                            Dan Bauer, Matt Fox, Amanda Murphy, Brian Ota, Sean Satterfield, Donna Zaeske

    I.         Call to Order
               Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 5:01pm and informed the committee that committee member
               Harris late.

    II.        Update on Pool Testing
               A pool testing update was provided sharing that the district had recently signed on with the state to
               participate. The committee was informed that in preparation for implementation, nurse Amanda Rivers
               was preparing consent forms for participation and awaiting taking part in trainings she had registered
               for. It was also noted that antigen tests had been ordered. It was further mentioned that the district
               would be partnered with an online platform for tracking the testing results. Topics for discussion
               included testing for asymptomatic individuals and the number of participants that could be in a pool. It
               was shared that testing would be scheduled for at least twice a week and that specific protocols for
               additional testing and quarantine protocols would be in place for if and when a positive pool was
               confirmed. An anticipated start date of March 1st was suggested to being testing at both the H.S and
               the Veterans School.

               Mr. Buckey confirmed for Ms. Fox that no additional nursing staff would be hired to implement the
               pool testing program.

               Ms. Gold requested that another update be provided at one of the next scheduled school committee
               meetings.

    III.       Consent Action Agenda Items Minutes-1/21/2021
               Ms. Fox noted that although no formal vote was taken, there was a general agreement made at the
               January 21st meeting to hold the February 9th budget workshop at 5:30 instead of the 5pm time it was
               scheduled for. She requested that the agreement be reflected in the minutes. Ms. Gold and Ms. Taylor
               recalled that Ms. Barron suggested that a 5:30pm time be offered to the administrators to confirm
               which time would work best. Ms. Fox stated that she would revisit the January 21st recording to
               transcribe the discussion. Ms. Gold shared that the minutes could be held until the next regularly
               scheduled school committee meeting so that the discussion about the time of the budget workshop
               could be correctly reflected in the minutes.

    IV.        FY22 Budget Workshop-Building Principal Presentations
               Dr. Buckey explained that he had been coordinating with the leadership team to determine individual
               building budget priorities. He noted that it was early in the budget process to determine set staffing
               needs across the district due to the building of the new elementary school. It was mentioned that the
               new elementary school would be structured like the Glover School.

               Ms. Fox requested that a budget tracking sheet be provided for future reference.

    a.     Glover School Budget Presentation
           Principal Ota explained that the Glover School budget remained similar to the 2019-2020 school year
     budget. He noted that the overall budget spending was decreased due to COVID impacts. It was mentioned
     that the cost of paper increased as a result of the additional paper used to print assignments for students
     learning from home. It was reported that Glover would retain two Pre-Kindergarten classrooms with the
     addition of a transitional Kindergarten classroom. Mr. Ota shared his staffing requests to add a .5 physical
     education teacher and a .5 music teacher so that allied arts teachers would no longer need to be shared
     amongst buildings with conflicting schedules. He further reported that the staffing adjustments would
     support positive scheduling changes supporting the teaching of ELA and Math five days a week.

b.   The Lucretia and Joseph Brown Elementary School Budget Presentation
     Eveleth and Coffin School Principals Ms. Zaeske and Mr. Satterfield updated the committee regarding the
     budget priorities for the new Lucretia and Joseph Brown Elementary School. Mr. Satterfield shared that
     numbers from the Eveleth, Coffin and Village 3rd grade were combined to build the budget. It was
     highlighted that a goal of the development process was to create resources for a new building that were
     equitable with the Glover School.

     It was mentioned that certain line items such as technology was anticipated to be high. Mr.Satterfield noted
     that due to the combining of buildings, there may be a reduction in specialist teachers.

     Principal Zaeske noted the excitement involved with launching a new transitional Pre-Kindergarten
     classroom. She also confirmed that the one teacher/two paraprofessional model from the Glover School
     would be followed. Ms. Zaeske noted that the staffing budget made up about 98% of the budget. It was
     mentioned that the two counselors were built into the new school budget to continue to support the social
     emotional health of the students.

     Prior to a discussion, Ms. Gold welcomed committee member Harris to the meeting around 5:37pm.

     A discussion took place that focused on the utility budget for the new elementary building, budgeting for
     special education programming including service provider staffing needs and the anticipated cost
     associated with the a new Pre-K through 8th grade math curriculum.

     Mr. Harris confirmed that although the building project remained on time and on budget, it was important
     to have an alternate plan in place for the start of the school year in case delays that affected opening
     occurred. Mr. Harris noted that he did not foresee future delays as a concern and agreed with Ms. Fox and
     Dr. Buckey that alternate plans would help pivot the district more easily should the school experience a
     delayed opening.

     The committee thanked Principal Zaeske and Satterfield for their work and vision with combining three
     elementary schools into one. Dr. Buckey commended the Principals for their efforts with budgeting to
     support common planning times and to support equitable resources across both elementary schools.

c.   Village School Budget Presentation
     Principal Murphy noted that the Village budget was level funded. She explained that certain line items may
     have been switched to support funding in areas of a larger need. It was shared that budgeting for math
     needs had been adjusted to reflect funding for supplemental resources which Assistant Superintendent
     Murphy would address in her update on Thursday. Principal Murphy reported that her two staffing requests
     focused on funding for either a curriculum coach or a third guidance counselor. She further explained that a
     request to have Village School specific allied arts teachers would support common planning and teaching
     time.

     Topics for discussion included 1) the possibility of a second special education chair 2) the consideration of
     an increased nursing supply line due to COVID related personal protective costs 3) technology needs and
     4) the use of reclaimed space after the 3rd graders move onto the Lucretia and Joseph Brown School.

d.   Veterans Middle School Budget Presentation
     Principal Fox explained that the focus for the FY22 Veterans budget would be a how to provided structured
     tiered interventions. He shared that the only staffing request he prioritized was for the addition of a Reading
     Specialist.

     A conversation about tiered support and the option of scheduling shorter 6-8 weeks courses took place. Mr.
     Fox explained that the after school programs focused on executive functioning skills has been very
     successful.

     Committee member Mr. Harris noted the difference in enrollment numbers over the years, which affects
     scheduling and class size to which Mr. Fox noted he accounted for a 15% increase in enrollment numbers
     in the FY22 budget.

     Dr. Buckey commended Principal Fox for remaining informed regarding fluctuated enrollment numbers in
     his building.

e.   High School Budget Presentation
     Principal Bauer noted that his supply line item was put towards funding for digital instructional supplies
     due to the pandemic. He further noted that a yearly focus of breaking down the Fine Arts budget occurred
     to ensure all of the department teachers received what they would need to get through a school year. It was
     mentioned that plans to consolidate line items further in support of funding a graduation ceremony was
     currently be assessed. Principal Bauer shared that a budget staffing priority entailed transitioning the BRYT
     Program tutor position into a teacher position. It was mentioned that improving technology at the highs
     school remained a primary focus for the 2021-2022 school year and that Technology Director, Stephen
     Kwiatek was doing a wonderful job of prioritizing those needs.

     An explanation of how graduation is typically funded was requested from committee member Taylor.
     Principal Bauer informed Ms. Taylor that it was usually funded through revolving funds and user fees.

     A conversation about advisory programs and how the Endicott Fellowship program helps support special
     education staffing needs took place.

     Ms. Fox made a motion to add a placeholder to the warrant article for an override. The motion was
     seconded by Mr. Harris. A discussion about a debt exclusion and general fund override took place. A
     discussion regarding the need for an override placeholder occurred and after a ten-minute discussion, it was
     decided that a placeholder should be added. Mr. Harris confirmed that he thought the placeholder language
     would be for a general fund override. A roll call vote was taken.

     Ms. Gold-yes
     Ms. Taylor-yes
     Mr. Harris-yes
     Ms. Barron-yes
     Ms. Fox-yes

     The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

     Prior to the meeting adjourning, Dr. Buckey thanked the administrator for joining the meeting and
     conversation, which he stated, “was an important step in getting accurate information out the community.”
     He also updated that community to tune into the Annual State of the Town scheduled for Friday, February
     12th at 10:30am.

V.       Adjournment
         Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 7:08pm.

         Respectfully Submitted,
         Lisa Dimier, Secretary
         Marblehead School Committee

         Approved April 1, 2021
