This document has been developed to act as a guide for school committees as your district
develops and implements a back-to-school strategy. This task will require flexibility on the
school committee’s part in schedules of meetings and the time commitment required to meet the
deadlines established by the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. Briefly, the
following are the target dates for the Return-to-School plans and decisions related to them:

By July 31, 2020: Each school district must submit to the Department the three plans required.
These plans should be presented to the school committee so they can share them with the
community.

By August 10, 2020: Each school district has to submit the plan chosen for implementation to the
Department. Since the plan will require amendments to existing policy as well as budget
revisions/reallocations, this plan should be approved/endorsed by the school committee prior to
its submission to the Department.

Between August 10, 2020 and the start of the school year (which may be delayed by up to 10
days to permit professional development and preparation based on the most recent
announcements from DESE), the school committee may have to negotiate certain parts of the
plan with the appropriate unions within their district. Every effort should be made to expedite
these negotiations to ensure a timely opening of schools.

As the start of school approaches, the school committee will need to address revisions or waivers
to some of the policies they have established as well as student handbook language. The policy
areas to concentrate on are identified within this guidance document.

POLICY ISSUES FOR THE PANDEMIC

Creation of a General (Interim) Policy on COVID-Related Issues              File: EBC
Supplemental​ ​(Policy EBC)

The School Committee takes note of the COVID-19 emergency; resulting disruption of the
traditional school day and year; growing concerns of students, families and the community; and
the growing number of issues that will affect public education.

Therefore, the school committee establishes an emergency, interim policy to:


   ● promote public safety and safety of students and faculty,
   ● maintain to the extent possible the high and efficient level of educational services,
   ● ensure support for students in general and in particular for those at highest risk
     educationally as well as those at social and economic risk, and
   ● comply with the emergency orders of the governor and adhere to the extent possible, to
     the guidance of the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education and other
     agencies of state and federal government, and expedite the safest strategy for returning
     students to school.



The school committee will approve the final plan submitted to DESE which will outline its
strategy for returning students to school and will, in collaboration with the superintendent, make
such modifications to the “back to school plan,” and district policy, and will authorize the
superintendent to suspend, revise or create protocols to facilitate the safe return to school.

The superintendent will designate the appropriate staff members to oversee the safe
administration of COVID-related policies during the period of the pandemic emergency and shall
make such recommendations to the school committee as needed.

The school committee will authorize the superintendent to act expeditiously in executing the
“back to school” plan in accordance with current law and regulation and will, where noted,
authorize the superintendent to suspend, revise, or recommend policies, rules and protocols as
needed to serve the best interests and safety of students, their families, and the community.

The “back to school” plan shall constitute the policy of the school district during the pandemic
emergency, and the superintendent shall exercise the authority provided in law to carry out the
plan as needed.


   ● General district goals affected by the pandemic.

     The superintendent, with the advice and consent of the school committee, may suspend or
     modify individual district policies to address the COVID-19 emergency as declared by the
     governor. Such suspension of policy shall expire upon the end of the emergency as
     declared by the governor.

     The goal of emergency pandemic policies shall be to:


           ● ensure the safety and health of students, faculty, staff, and all persons who may
             come in contact with them;
       ● provide the most effective educational services as possible to students under the
         circumstances;
       ● authorize changes to operating protocols as needed to open and operate schools
         effectively from various venues or platforms;
       ● conduct the district business and operational functions of the district as efficiently
         as possible;
       ● allow the superintendent and staff to act quickly to carry out a “back to school”
         plan and,
       ● facilitate the re-establishment of a safe and productive school day and year.




● Student assignment to schools ​(Policy JCA)

 Subject to the guidance from the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education, the
 superintendent may suspend or revise the assignment of students to schools, including the
 assignment of new students for such a period as the emergency declaration is in force.


● School calendar ​(Policy IC/ICA)

 Subject to the guidance from the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education and
 the provisions of collective bargaining agreements, the superintendent may suspend or
 revise the school calendar with the approval of the school committee.


● Class size

   In order to maintain healthy, safe, and effective classrooms, the superintendent may
   suspend district policy on class size, ​subject to the provisions of the collective bargaining
   agreements where applicable.




● Attendance ​(Policy JH)


 Subject to operative law and regulations, suspend, modify or adapt policies related to
 student attendance including the link between and absences when appropriate, (including
 the link between attendance and grades), chronic absence policies, and accommodations for
 students requiring special placements


● Time on learning ​(Policy IC-ICA)​, ​(Policy ID)

 Subject to the guidance from the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education and
 the provisions of collective bargaining agreements, the superintendent may suspend or
 amend requirements for time on learning for the duration of the COVID pandemic.


● Grading and retention ​(Policy IKE)

 In accordance with guidance from the Department of Elementary and Secondary
 Education, the superintendent may propose, subject to the approval of the school
 committee, modifications to the policy of the district for grading and retention of students.


● Local graduation requirements ​(Policy IKF)

 In accordance with guidance from the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education
 and modifications to current regulation or law, the superintendent may propose, subject to
 the approval of the school committee, modifications to the policy of the district regarding
 graduation requirements. DUPLICATE STATEMENT IN SPECIAL EDUCATION


● Special education ​(Policy IHB)​,​ ​(Policy IHBAA)​, ​(Policy IHBF)

 The superintendent and school committee should be mindful that attainment of a high
 school diploma may render certain students ineligible for further services.


● Discipline and Suspension/Expulsion with homeschooling rights ​(Policy JIC)​, ​(Policy
  JK)

 The “back to school” plan recommended by the superintendent and subject to the approval
 of the school committee shall contain protocols for serving students who are disciplined or
 suspended during the pandemic emergency.
 Further, the superintendent shall provide in these “back to school” plans provisions for
 students who were disciplined or suspended ​or ​who may elect to remain at home under the
 provisions of the policies related to homeschooling, or who may elect remote learning in
 the interests of safety or health concerns.


● Exemptions for particular groups of students ​(Policy JL)

 The superintendent shall provide protocols to principals and teachers regarding students
 who may require special exemptions from health and safety standards during the pandemic
 emergency. Such protocols may address exemption for utilizing support animals.


● Job descriptions ​(Policy GCA)

 The superintendent may revise job descriptions for district staff, considering the provisions
 of current collective bargaining agreements, in order to secure the safety and health of
 students and staff, establish effective communications between school and community,
 maintain facilities, transport students as needed, provide food services, and acquire
 necessary materials to operate schools safely and securely during the pandemic. The
 superintendent will inform the school committee of any such changes. Any changes to job
 descriptions shall expire at the end of the declared emergency situation.


● STUDENTS AT RISK ​(Policy JIE)​, ​(Policy JL)​, ​(Policy JLC)​, ​(Policy JLCC)

 During the COVID pandemic, the superintendent or principal of a school may revise or
 suspend provisions of policy to facilitate the education of students at risk or with special
 physical needs or their family caregivers, including, but not limited to caring for or
 educating students with disabilities, illness, pregnancy, child rearing responsibilities, or
 special education needs consistent with law and regulation.


● Privacy of Students ​(Policy JRA)

 During the pandemic, the rights to privacy held by students and their families shall not be
 abridged by the public schools. Such rights extend to the confidentiality of student
 academic records, health data, economic status, and other such information as may be
 considered confidential by law.
 Massachusetts law prohibits the recording of individuals without their permission.
 Similarly, students may not be recorded in classrooms by audio, visual, or remote means
 without the permission of parents or, if of age, by individual students. During periods of
 remote learning, the privacy of students participating in on-line classes shall not be violated
 by recording them without appropriate permissions.


● Pivoting back to remote learning, or back to in-school instruction

 The superintendent shall incorporate into the “back to school” plan protocols for modifying
 these plans including addressing the needs of students who may require reversion from
 in-school to remote learning modalities because of the pandemic emergency.


● Home schooling (temporary) ​(Policy IHBG)​, ​(Policy IHBG-R)​, ​(Policy IHBF)​, and
  remote instruction for students in quarantine


 The “back to school” plan shall provide for students who are temporarily homebound due
 to illness, quarantine, or disability


● Public Safety Officers, including the school resource officer (MOA with the local police.)
  (Policy KLG)

 Subject to current law or regulation, the superintendent shall report to the school committee
 of any change in status of the school resource officer. (If the district eliminates visitors to
 school during the school day, the SRO may be impacted.)


● Eligibility for participation in extracurricular activities, including sports ​(Policy JJ)

 Subject to law, regulation and standards established by the appropriate and legitimate
 regulatory body, the superintendent may propose changes to district protocols for
 participation in extracurricular activities including sports subject to the rules established by
 the Massachusetts Interscholastic Athletic Association.


● Attendance vs. participation in events ​(Policy JH)​, ​(High School Student Handbook)
 Subject to law, regulation or emergency declaration, the superintendent may propose
 protocols or modifications or suspensions of district policies regarding attendance by
 students or the public in school events including, but not limited to assemblies, sports
 events, large gatherings, or other programs.


● Visitors in schools and buildings ​(Policy KI)

 Subject to current emergency declarations, the superintendent may propose suspension or
 modification to district policies regarding visitors to school buildings during the school day
 and after school hours.


● Illness and contract tracing ​(Policy JLCC)

 Subject to the provisions of the “back to school” plan, the superintendent may establish
 protocols for tracking student contacts as a means of locating others from whom students
 may contract or expose other persons to the CORVID-19. Such protocols will be
 consistent with law and regulation and be consistent with standards to protect the privacy
 of students, their families, and other persons.


● Transportation and busing ​(Policy EEA)​, ​(Policy EEAA)​, ​(Policy EEAEC)​, ​(Policy
  EEAG)

 Subject to current law and regulation, the superintendent may suspend or modify policies
 related to the transportation of students by the school district. Legal requirements relating
 to IEP’s that contain transportation for students shall not be altered without the appropriate
 family consent. These modifications shall be consistent with the district “back to school”
 plan.


● Operations and plant maintenance ​(Policy EC)​, ​(Policy ECA)

 Subject to the provisions of law, regulation and collective bargaining agreements, the
 superintendent may suspend or amend current policy to ensure the efficient operation of
 business functions and maintenance of school buildings and other such offices as the
 district maintains.

● Immunization of Students ​(Policy JLCB)
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, The Commonwealth of Massachusetts has updated the
Massachusetts School Immunization Requirements to include a documented seasonal
dose of the Influenza Vaccine. This requirement will remain in effect until rescinded by
the Governor.
           MHS Handbook Amendments for the 2020-2021 Academic School Year

Update phone numbers - pg. 10
Change Supervisor of Technology phone number to 781-629-3120 X3178
Change Lead Nurse phone number to 781-639-3100 X3118

ID Badges - pg. 12
Add: Due to COVID-19 - Students are not required to wear ID badges for the 2020-2021 school
year.

School Day - pg. 13
Add: Due to COVID-19 some school procedures have been modified for the 2020-2021 school
year. Modifications include when the building will open for students on school days at 7:45am
and students reporting directly to their class when entering the building. Modifications may also
include students leaving the building immediately after their last class.

Library - pg. 36
Due to COVID-19, use of the Library will be restricted to only classes scheduled for that space.

                                            Attendance
Attendance Procedures - pg. 27
Add: Due to COVID-19 the attendance procedures for the 2020 2021 school year are as
follows:
Parents are required to contact the school by 8:30 am if a child is going to be absent or late for
any reason. This is for all students in both hybrid and remote learning. Teachers will take
attendance during every class. In lieu of sending in a note, parents should email
mhs_absences@marbleheadschools.org with the date and reason for the absence.

No Credit (N) - N grade due to poor attendance
Due to COVID-19, this part of the attendance policy will be suspended for 2020-21. This
includes the Attendance Review Panel.

Dismissal - pg. 33
In lieu of sending in a note, parents should email (insert attendance email address) with the date
and time for dismissal.

The nurse must speak to a parent/guardian before a student can be dismissed for any injury or
illness. If your child contacts you directly because of feeling ill or injured, refer him/her to the
nurse. After completing an assessment, the nurse will contact a parent/guardian for dismissal if
necessary.
                                                Masks
Dress Code: Fask Masks - pg. 37
Add: Per School Committee Policy EBCFA masks must be worn at all times while in the
building, unless a written note from a physician is provided for a requested exemption.
Visitors: Face Masks - pg. 45
Add: Per School Committee Policy EBCFA masks must be worn at all times while in the
building, unless a written note from a physician is provided for a requested exemption. Visitors
in violation of this policy will be denied entry to the school/district facility. This policy will
remain in place until rescinded by the School Committee.

Student Disciplinary Procedures - pg. 49
Add: Failure to wear a face mask will result in immediate dismissal from school. Repeated
mask violations could result in a change of placement from hybrid to full remote.


                                         Athletic Handbook
Captaincy - Team Captains - pg. 3.
Adding: Marblehead High School student athletes are not eligible to be nominated or voted on as
captain for one year to the date, if he/she violates the MIAA or Marblehead High School’s
Chemical Health policy.

MIAA/MHS Chemical Health Rule, pg. 6
Adding: Participation in Marblehead athletics is a privilege and is voluntary; thus participation
comes with an increased standards for behavior expectations. The Marblehead High School
standards are designed to encourage responsible and safe decision making by all students and to
promote a positive learning environment within the Marblehead community. Marblehead High
school, as a member of the MIAA, meets or exceeds their standards for code of conduct and
discipline.

Add “knowingly”- to clarify in the presence of a substance
                                                                                      File: ACAB

                                  SEXUAL HARASSMENT


Sexual harassment of students or of employees by other students, employees, vendors and other
third parties will not be tolerated in the Marblehead Public Schools (“District”). The alleged
harassment must involve conduct that occurred within the school’s own program or activity,
including at a location or under circumstances where the school owned, or substantially
controlled, the premises; exercised oversight, supervision or discipline over the location or
participants; or funded, sponsored, promoted or endorsed the event where the alleged harassment
occurred; and must have occurred against a person in the United States. This policy is in effect
while students are on school grounds, District property or property within the jurisdiction of the
District, on school buses, or while attending or engaging in school-sponsored activities.

Students whose behavior is found to be in violation of this policy will be subject to disciplinary
action up to and including suspension or expulsion pursuant to disciplinary codes. Employees
who have been found to violate this policy will be subject to discipline up to and including,
termination of employment, subject to contractual disciplinary obligations.

The District will promptly and reasonably investigate allegations of sexual harassment through
designation of a Title IX Coordinator and building based employees, as set forth below

Sexual harassment is unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature. The definition includes
unwelcome conduct on the basis of sex that is so severe, pervasive, and objectively offensive that
it effectively denies a person equal access to the school’s education program or activity. It also
includes unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal, nonverbal, or
physical conduct of a sexual nature. Sexual harassment includes conduct by an employee
conditioning an educational benefit or service upon a person’s participation in unwelcome sexual
conduct, often called quid pro quo harassment and, sexual assault as the Federal Clery Act
defines that crime.

While it is not possible to list all those additional circumstances that may constitute sexual
harassment, the following are some examples of conduct which, if unwelcome, may constitute
sexual harassment, depending on the totality of the circumstances, including the severity of the
conduct and its pervasiveness:

   ● Unwelcome sexual advances—whether they involve physical touching or not;
   ● Sexual epithets, jokes, written or oral references to sexual conduct, gossip regarding
     one’s sex life; comment on an individual’s body, comment about an individual’s sexual
     activity, deficiencies, or prowess;
   ● Displaying sexually suggestive objects, pictures, cartoons;
   ● Unwelcome leering, whistling, brushing against the body, sexual gestures, suggestive or
     insulting comments;
   ● Inquiries into one’s sexual experiences; and,
   ● Discussion of one’s sexual activities.

The legal definition of sexual harassment is broad and in addition to the above examples other
sexually oriented conduct, whether it is intended or not, that is unwelcome and has the effect of
creating an environment that is hostile, offensive, intimidating, to male, female, or gender non-
conforming students or employees may also constitute sexual harassment.

Because the District takes allegations of sexual harassment seriously, we will respond promptly
to complaints of sexual harassment and, following an investigation where it is determined that
such inappropriate conduct has occurred, we will act promptly to eliminate the conduct and
impose corrective action as is necessary, including disciplinary action where appropriate.

Please note that while this policy sets forth our goals of promoting an environment that is free of
sexual harassment, the policy is not designed or intended to limit our authority to discipline or
take remedial action for conduct which we deem unacceptable, regardless of whether that
conduct satisfies the definition of sexual harassment. For example, conduct that constitutes
harassment other than sexual harassment, bullying, violation of the student discipline code or
school district workplace rules, unlawful discrimination, hazing, or student misconduct statutes,
will be investigated and addressed under the District relevant policies and the applicable laws.

A complainant is an individual who is alleged to be the victim of conduct that could constitute
sexual harassment. A respondent is an individual who has been reported to be the perpetrator of
conduct that could constitute sexual harassment or a violation of this policy.

Retaliation against a complainant because the complainant has filed a sexual harassment
complaint or assisted or participated in a sexual harassment investigation or proceeding, is also
prohibited. A student or employee who is found to have retaliated against another in violation of
this policy will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including student suspension and
expulsion or employee termination.

The complainant does not have to be the person at whom the unwelcome sexual conduct is
directed. The complainant, regardless of gender, may be a witness to and personally offended by
such conduct.

NOTICE OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT

The regulations require a school district to respond when the district has actual knowledge of
sexual harassment. Schools must treat seriously all reports of sexual harassment that meet the
definition of sexual harassment and the conditions of actual notice and jurisdiction, whether or
not the complainant files a formal complaint. A formal complaint is a document filed by a
complainant or signed by the Title IX Coordinator alleging sexual harassment against a
respondent and requesting that the District investigate the allegation of sexual harassment.
Schools are required to investigate every formal complaint and respond meaningfully to every
known report of sexual harassment.
Upon receipt of allegations the Title IX Coordinator shall promptly contact the complainant
confidentially to discuss the availability of supportive measures, consider the complainant’s
wishes with respect to supportive measures, inform the complainant that supportive measures are
available with or without the filing of a formal complaint, and explain the process for filing a
formal complaint. Supportive measures include, but are not limited to, non-disciplinary, non-
punitive individualized services offered as appropriate, as reasonably available, and without fee
or charge to the complainant or the respondent before or after the filing of a formal complaint or
where no formal complaint has been filed. Such measures are designed to restore or preserve
equal access to education programs or activities without unreasonably burdening the other party,
including measures designed to protect the safety of all parties or the District’s educational
environment, or to deter sexual harassment. Supportive measures may include counseling,
extensions of deadlines or other course-related adjustments, modifications of work or class
schedules, school building/campus escort services, mutual restrictions on contact between the
parties, changes in work locations, leaves of absence, increased security and monitoring of
certain areas of the building/campus, and other similar measures.

Where there has been a finding of responsibility, the regulations require remedies designed to
restore or preserve access to the school’s education program or activity.

DUE PROCESS PROTECTIONS

Due process protections in connection with investigation and decision-making regarding a
complaint include the following:

   1) If the allegations do not meet the definition of sexual harassment or do not satisfy the
      requirements regarding location or connection to an educational program of the school
      district, the allegations shall be dismissed for purposes of Title IX, but may be
      investigated and addressed under other prohibitions in the student discipline code,
      relevant collective bargaining agreements or other laws under which they fit;
   2) A presumption of innocence throughout the grievance process, with the burden of proof
      on the school;
   3) A complainant’s wishes with respect to whether the school investigates will be respected
      unless the Title IX Coordinator determines that signing a formal complaint to initiate an
      investigation over the wishes of the complainant is not clearly unreasonable in light of the
      known circumstances;
   4) A prohibition of the single investigator model, instead requiring a decision –maker
      separate from the Title IX Coordinator or investigator;
   5) Proof by a preponderance of the evidence, subject to limitations;
   6) The opportunity to test the credibility of parties and witnesses through disclosure of
      evidence and opportunity to submit additional questions, subject to “rape shield”
      protections;
   7) Written notice of allegations and an equal opportunity to review the evidence upon filing
      a formal complaint;
   8) An objective evaluation of all relevant evidence, inculpatory and exculpatory, and
      avoidance of credibility determinations based on a person’s status as a complainant, a
      respondent, or a witness;
   9) Title IX Coordinators, investigators, and decision-makers must be trained and free from
       bias or conflict of interest;
   10) A right to appeal from a determination regarding responsibility and from a dismissal of a
       formal complaint or the allegations therein, where the determination or dismissal
       involved any of the following: procedural irregularity that affected the outcome; newly-
       discovered evidence that could affect the outcome; or the Title IX Coordinator, the
       investigator, or the decision-maker had a conflict of interest or bias that affected the
       outcome;
   11) As long as the process is voluntary for all parties, after being fully informed and written
       consent is provided by both parties, a school may facilitate informal resolution of a
       formal sexual complaint, but no such informal resolution can be used where the
       allegations are that an employee sexually harassed a student.

A district may establish an informal investigation process that may, upon the request of the
complainant be followed by a formal process.

The Title IX Coordinator(s) in the District are Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent, 9 Widger
Road, Marblehead, MA 01945, 781-639-3140 and Eric Oxford, Director of Student Services, 9
Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945, 781-639-3140. The Title IX Coordinator or the school
building Principal shall be the initial entity to receive the sexual harassment complaint. In all
cases the Title IX Coordinator shall be informed, as soon as possible, of the filing of the
complaint. Nothing in this policy shall prevent any person from reporting the prohibited conduct
to someone other than those above designated complaint recipients. An employee with actual
knowledge of conduct that may violate this policy must report to the Title IX Coordinator.

The District may remove a respondent on an emergency basis after undertaking an individualized
safety and risk analysis and determining that an immediate threat to the physical health or safety
of any student or other individual arising from the allegations justifies removal. The District will
provide the respondent with written notice and an opportunity to challenge the decision
immediately following the removal in accordance with any applicable laws, collective bargaining
agreements and student handbooks.

INVESTIGATIONS

The investigating officer shall be an Assistant Principal in the building or other appropriate
administrator designated by the Principal.The Investigating Officer(s) in the District are Michele
Carlson Assistant Principal, Marblehead High School 2 Humphrey St, Marblehead, MA 01945,
781-639-3100 and Stephen Gallo, Assistant Principal, the Village School, 93 Village St.
Marblehead, MA 01945, 781-639-3159. The investigation shall be conducted in such a way as to
maintain confidentiality to the extent practicable under the circumstances and in compliance with
applicable law. The investigation will be prompt, thorough, and impartial, and will include, at
least, a private interview with the complainant, with the respondent, and with witnesses. The
investigator shall give the parties equal opportunity to present fact and expert witnesses and other
inculpatory and exculpatory evidence; shall give each party the same opportunity to select an
advisor of the party’s choice who may, but need not be, an attorney; shall send written notice of
all interviews or meetings; shall send to the parties evidence directly related to the allegations, in
electronic form or hard copy, with at least ten (10) school days for the parties to inspect, review,
and respond; and shall prepare and submit an investigative report that fairly summarizes the
relevant evidence to the decision-maker, who shall be the Principal or his/her designee (other
than the investigator).

The investigator shall strive to complete investigations within twenty-five (25) school days of the
filing of the formal complaint or resumption of the investigation after an unsuccessful
information resolution meeting.

During the investigation, the investigator shall take the following steps:

   1) The investigator will interview the complainant to obtain a clear understanding of that
      complainant’s allegations within five (5) school days of the filing of the formal complaint
      provided that the complainant is available to be interviewed by the investigator.

   2) The investigator will interview the respondent to obtain a response to the complainant’s
      allegations from the respondent within five (5) school days of the interview with the
      complainant provided that the respondent is available to be interviewed with the
      investigator.

   3) The investigator will interview witnesses identified by the complainant or respondent
      within five (5) school days of being identified as a potential witness by the complainant
      or respondent provided the witness is available. The investigator will interview witnesses
      as the investigator deems necessary.

   4) The investigator will hold as many meetings or interviews with the parties and any
      witnesses as is necessary to make factual findings.
The timelines above are subject to the District’s goal to complete investigations generally within
twenty-five (25) school days but may be extended for good cause upon written notice to the
complainant and respondent. The timeline for investigation may be suspended during any
informal resolution procedure or meeting. Each party is entitled to be accompanied in interviews
by an advisor, who may be a parent/guardian or an attorney, but who may only have limited
participation in interviews. Translators will be provided upon request.

After all interviews are conducted and evidence is obtained, the parties and if applicable, their
advisors, will have an equal opportunity to inspect, review and respond to any evidence obtained.
Prior to completion of the investigative report, the investigator will send each party all evidence
subject to inspection and review and provide each party at least ten (10) school days to provide a
response to the investigator. Evidence to be shared may be redacted to protect confidential
information under the Family and Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) or other
federal or state laws and regulations.

The investigator will draft an investigation report that fairly summarizes the relevant evidence
including, but not limited to, interviews with parties and witnesses, written evidence, audio/video
recordings, and site visits. The investigator will provide the decision maker, with a report
including all evidence obtained during the course of the investigation. The decision-maker shall
upon receipt send the report in electronic format or hard copy to the parties and their advisors
with ten (10) school days for the parties to respond, including submitting written relevant
questions that each party wants asked of a party or witness, subject to the protections of the Rape
Shield Law. Before reaching a determination, the decision-maker shall provide to the parties the
answers to the submitted questions and the opportunity for limited follow up questions.

DETERMINATIONS

The decision-maker shall issue a written determination regarding responsibility with findings of
fact, conclusions about whether the alleged conduct occurred, the rationale for the result as to
each allegation, any disciplinary sanctions imposed on the respondent, and whether remedies will
be provided to the complainant. The Decision-maker(s) in the District are the individual
building principals.

The decision maker assigned will have no conflicts with or biases against either the complainant
of the respondent and the decision maker will not be the Title IX Coordinator assigned in the
matter or the investigator for the complaint. The decision maker shall review all of the evidence
and issue a written determination within fifteen (15) school days of receipt of the matter from the
investigator, absent extenuating circumstances. If the decision maker substantiates the
allegations of sexual harassment, the decision maker may recommend or impose discipline
against the respondent. If the decision maker does not substantiate the allegations of sexual
harassment, the complaint will be dismissed.

The written determination shall include: (1) identification of the allegations potentially
constituting sexual harassment; (2) a description of the procedural steps taken from the receipt of
the formal complaint through the determination, including any notifications to the parties,
interviews with parties and witnesses, site visits, and methods used to gather evidence; (3)
findings of fact supporting the determination; (4) conclusions as to whether District policies were
violated; (5) a statement of the result of each allegation, including a determination regarding
responsibility, disciplinary action to be imposed on the respondent, and whether remedies
designed to preserve equal access to the District’s education program or activity will be provided
to the complainant; and (6) the District’s procedures and permissible bases for appeal.
Confidential student record information and personnel information may be redacted consistent
with and as required by state and federal law. The decision-maker shall provide the written
determination to the complainant(s) and respondent(s).

APPEALS

Appeals must be submitted to the Title IX Coordinator within five (5) school days of receipt of
the written determination and contain a written statement in support or challenge of the outcome.
The Appeal Officer in the District is Dr. John J. Buckey, Superintendent of Schools, 9 Widger
Rd, Marblehead, MA 01945, 781-639-3140.

When an appeal is filed, the District shall notify the other party and ensure that the individual
deciding the appeal is not the same person as the decision maker who reached the determination
regarding responsibility and that the individual has no conflicts of interests and is free of bias.
The non-appealing party shall have five (5) school days from the date of receipt of the notice of
the appeal to submit a written statement to support or oppose the outcome.

The individual deciding the appeal shall issue a written decision describing the result of the
appeal and rationale for the decision and provide the decision to both parties generally within ten
(10) school days of receipt of the non-appealing party’s written statement, or in the event no
statement is submitted, the date the statement would have been due.


RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENTS

Schools must create and maintain records documenting every Title IX sexual harassment
complaint. This could include mediation, restorative justice, or other models of alternative
dispute resolution. Schools must keep records regarding the school’s response to every report of
sexual harassment of which it becomes aware even if no formal complaint was filed, including
documentation of supportive matters offered and implemented for the complainant.

This policy, or a summary thereof that contain the essential policy elements shall be distributed
by the District to its students and employees and each parent or guardian shall sign that they have
received and understand the policy.

Please note that the following entities have specified time limits for filing a claim.

The Complainant may also file a complaint with:

   ● The Mass. Commission Against Discrimination
   ● 1 Ashburton Place, Room 601
     Boston, MA 02108.
     Phone: 617-994-6000.
   ● Office for Civil Rights (U.S. Department of Education)
     5 Post Office Square, 8th Floor
     Boston, MA 02109.
     Phone: 617-289-0111.
   ● The United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission,
     John F. Kennedy Bldg.
     475 Government Center
     Boston, MA 02203.


LEGAL REF.:            M.G.L. 151B:3A
                       Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972
                       BESE 603 CMR 26:00
                       34 CFR 106.44 (a), (a)-(b)
                       34 CFR 106.45 (a)-(b) (1)
                       34 CFR 106.45 (b)(2)-(b)(3,4,5,6,7) as revised through June 2020
Note: A summary of the attached Policy, as adopted, must be sent to parents/guardians,
students, employees, unions, and prospective employees of the school district including
Title IX Coordinator(s), investigator(s) and the decision-maker. The above referenced
employees must attend training sessions on the implementation of the Policy.

SOURCE: MASC July 2020




Marblehead Public Schools-Approved 9/10/2020
                Proposed Elementary Handbook Changes (2020-2021)

1. Update- Administrational updates
      a. Updated names under each schools pages


2. Clarity-Classroom Expectations
      a. Sentence added to clarify expectations for hybrid and remote learning
      b. “Students are expected to fully participate in the hybrid or remote learning
           classrooms. Students are required to complete all assignments given during
           hybrid or remote learning classrooms.”


3. Glover and Village School Behavior Expectations:
      a. Deleted both sections and edited the Classroom Expectations to be all
          elementary schools
      b. “All students are expected to follow the school behavior expectations during
          remote learning classrooms.”

4. Added Facemask Policy language:

                                 Face Mask Policy
         Face Masks must be worn at all times by students during the COVID Pandemic. All
         students must wear masks while on school grounds. Students may be exempted from this
         policy with a documented reason from a physician. The School Committee policy may be
         found in Appendix E.

5. Added Appendix E with the full School Committee policy
                    MARBLEHEAD                                             Mathew Fox, Principal
                                                                     fox.matthew@marbleheadschools.org
                    PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                                Phone :
                                                                                781.639.3120
                        Veterans Middle School
                          217 Pleasant St.
                                                                          Julia Ferreira, Asst. Principal
                        Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                       ferreira.julia@marbleheadschools.org




                           Proposed MVMS Handbook Changes 2020 - 2021

1. Yearly updates were made throughout the handbook related to calendar, name changes, etc.

2. We added that visitors should wear masks.

3. Under Bell Schedule, we included the new Remote and Hybrid schedules

4. Under the Attendance Requirements and Procedures, we updated the dismissal process to allow for
parents to NOT come into the building for pre-arranged dismissals.
Can my student come outside to meet me at that dismissal time?
A parent must meet their child at the school door to pick him/her up for a pre-arranged dismissal.

5. Under Dress Code, we included the following:
Per School Committee Policy EBCFA masks must be worn at all times while in the building, unless a written
note from a physician is provided for a requested exemption.
