                                                                                                   DATE POSTED:

                                                                                                             Town Clerk Use Only




                                                      AMENDED AGENDA
                  POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONSOF MGL 30A §§18-25 and the Governor’s March 12, 2020 Executive order



                                               Marblehead School Committee
                                                       Name of Board or Committee



       Address:    Zoom Conference join via the web link or Dial in
                     Link:
                     https://zoom.us/j/92439442187?pwd=MWJOV1ZpaUdkWXZUelJTZkpjQktRZz09
                     Dial in Phone # (415) 762-9988 with ID and follow prompts
                     Meeting ID: 924 3944 2187
                    Password: 756412

               Thursday                    March                    4th                   2021                 7:00pm
              Day of Week                  Month                   Date                   Year                  Time

                  Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)


                                                    THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE


  I.          Initial Business and Public Involvement
               1. Call to Order
                     a. Statement from the Chair
               2. Commendations
                     a. Building based commendations-Eveleth School, Principal Donna Zaeske
                     b. School Committee Commendations
               3. Student Representative – Dan Howells
               4. Public Comment

 II.          Consent Agenda and Action Items
               1. Minutes:                                                                                           (Vote)
                  February 4, 2021

III.          Superintendent Report
               1. Pool Testing Update
                    a. Sports-Pool Testing Participation                                                             (Vote)
               2. Learning Model Update                                                                              (Vote)


IV.           Finance Organizational Support
               1. Schedule of Bills                                                                                  (Vote)
               2. FY22 Budget Update
V.           School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
              1. Policies to Review and Vote
                   a. EBCFA-Face Coverings
                   b. IHBAA-Observations of Special Education Programs
                   c. IHCA-Summer Schools
                   d. JFABD-Homeless Students: Enrollment Rights and Services
                   e. JFABE-Educational Opportunities for Military Children
                   f. JFABF-Education Opportunities for Children in Foster Care
              2. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
              3. Building Project Update


VI.          Closing Business
             1.      New Business (Not reasonably anticipated by the Chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting.)
             2.      Correspondence
             3.      Public Comment
             4.      Adjournment




      Chairperson   Sarah Gold
      Posted by     Lisa Dimier
      Date          3/2/2021
                                                                              Business Office
                                                                              9 Widger Road,
               MARBLEHEAD                                                     Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                              phone: 781.639.3140
               PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                                 fax: 781.639.3149




                                        MEMORANDUM


TO:            Marblehead School Committee
FROM:          Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance
DATE:          March 2, 2021
RE:            Schedule of Bills for Approval


Included in this packet is the following Schedules of Bills for your consideration. The schedules
and invoices have been uploaded to Dropbox and the required signatures have been obtained for
each schedule.

                             Schedule               Amount

                               20600      $             2,775,433.94
                               20606      $                30,783.10
                               20613      $                 3,786.05
                               20614      $                 5,814.50
                               20615      $               304,386.37
                               20622      $                 5,829.30
                                Total     $             3,126,033.26




Suggested Motion:
Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $3,126,033.26.
                                                                                                  File: JFABF

              EDUCATION OPPORTUNITIES FOR CHILDREN IN FOSTER CARE

The purpose of this policy is to ensure the educational stability of students in foster care and their equal
access to the same free and appropriate public education from preschool through high school
graduation as provided to other students as required by law. Educational stability has a lasting impact
on students' academic achievement and wellbeing, and the School Committee is committed to
supporting district and community efforts to ensure that students in foster care have access to high-
quality, stable educational experiences.

The law requires that foster care students continue to attend their school of origin, unless after a
collaborative decision-making process it is determined to be in the student's best interest to enroll in and
attend school in the district in which a foster care provider or facility is located (if different). The law
also requires that when it is not in the student's best interest to remain in the school of origin, the student
is immediately enrolled and attending in a new school district, even if records normally required for
enrollment cannot be quickly produced. Additionally, the requires the Department of Children and
Families (DCF), The Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE), and the school
district to designate points of contact; and also that the district collaborate with DCF to ensure that
students will receive transportation to the school of origin if needed.

Best Interest Determination
Decisions about whether a student in foster care should continue to attend the school of origin should be
made collaboratively by DCF, the student (as appropriate), the student's family and/or foster family (and
if different, the person authorized to make educational decisions on behalf of the student), the school and
district of origin, and (when different) the local district where the student is placed. Best interest
determinations should focus on the needs of each individual student and take into account a variety of
factors. Every effort should be made to reach agreement regarding the appropriate school placement of a
student in foster care. However, if there is disagreement regarding school placement for a student in
foster care, DCF will finalize the best interest determination.

The district can seek review of DCF's decision by utilizing a Foster Care School Selection Dispute
Resolution Process established by DESE and DCF. Decisions made through this process are not subject
to review. Under the law, to promote educational stability, students should continue to attend their
schools of origin while best interest determinations are being made.

Transportation
The district of origin must collaborate with DCF on how transportation will be provided and arranged to
ensure that students in foster care who need transportation to remain in their school of origin will receive
such transportation while they are in foster care.

                                                                                                         1 of 2




Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                                  File: JFABF
Transportation options may include using Title I funds, establishing regional collaborations among
districts, coordinating with existing routes for transportation, seeking help from foster parent(s), etc.
Absent other agreements between the district and DCF, the district of origin is responsible for providing
transportation to and from the school of origin.

Immediate Enrollment
If it is in the best interest of a student in foster care to leave the school of origin, the student must be
enrolled in school in the local school district immediately. To minimize disruption of the student's
education, the law requires the district to enroll the student in a new school right away, without waiting
to receive the typical student enrollment documentation (other than emergency contact information).
The enrolling school must immediately contact the child's school and district of origin to obtain the
relevant records and documentation, and the school and district of origin should immediately transfer
those records.

To facilitate enrollment, DCF representatives will present the district with a form that indicates that the
student is in foster care, along with their state-agency identification badge, when enrolling students.

LEGAL REFS: Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA);
Fostering Connections to Success and Increasing Adoptions Act of 2008 (Fostering Connections Act) 2



                                                                                                       of 2




Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                              File: JFABE

                EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR MILITARY CHILDREN


In an effort to facilitate the placement, enrollment, graduation, data collection and provision of special
services for students transferring into or out of the District because of their parents being on active duty
in the U.S. Armed Services, the District supports and will implement its responsibilities as outlined in
the Interstate Compact on Educational Opportunity for Military Children. The School Committee
believes it is appropriate to remove barriers to educational success imposed on children of military
families because of their parents’ frequent moves and deployment.

Definitions

Children of military families means school aged children, enrolled in kindergarten through 12th grade,
in the household of an active duty member of the uniformed service of the United States, including
members of the National Guard and Reserve serving on active duty.

Deployment means the period one month before the service members’ departure from their home
station on military orders through six months after return to their home station.

Education(al) records means official records, files, and data directly related to a student and
maintained by the school including, but not limited to, records encompassing all the material kept in the
student’s cumulative folder.

The requirements, applicable to eligible students, which must be fulfilled, are listed below. Eligible
students are those who are children of active duty personnel, active duty personnel or veterans who have
been severely injured and medically discharged, active duty personnel who die on active duty within one
year of service, and children of retired personnel from one year of retirement date. Students are not
eligible for the provisions of the Compact if they are children of inactive Guard or Reserves, retired
personnel, veterans not included above or U.S. Department of Defense personnel and other federal civil
service employees and contract employees.

The District’s responsibilities to eligible children include the following:

   ∙ Sending schools must send either official or unofficial records with the moving students and
      District receiving schools must use those records for immediate enrollment and educational
      placement.

   ∙ Simultaneously, the receiving school must request official records and the sending schools shall
       respond within 10 days with the records.

   ∙ Immunization requirements of the District may be met within 30 days from the date of enrollment
       (or be in progress).
                                                                                                1 of 2




Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                              File: JFABE
   ∙ Receiving schools must initially honor placement of students in all courses from the sending
       school. These include, but are not limited to, Honors, International Baccalaureate, Advanced
       Placement, vocational-technical, and career pathway courses if those courses are offered in the
       receiving school and space is available. The receiving schools must also initially honor
       placement of like programs to those of the student in the sending state, including, but not limited
       to, Gifted and Talented programs, and English as a Second Language programs. Receiving
       schools are not precluded from performing subsequent evaluation to ensure the appropriate
       placement and continued enrollment of the student in courses and programs.

   ∙ In compliance with federal law, special education students must be placed by the existing IEP with
        reasonable accommodations in the receiving school.

   ∙ The District will exercise, as deemed appropriate, the right to waive prerequisites for all courses
      and programs, while also maintaining its right to re-evaluate the student to ensure continued
      enrollment, as deemed appropriate.

   ∙ Students of active duty personnel shall have additional excused absences at the discretion of the
       District for visitations relative to leave or deployment.

   ∙ An eligible student living with a noncustodial parent or other person standing in loco parentis shall
      be permitted to attend the school in which he or she was enrolled while living without the
      custodial parent without any tuition fee imposed.

   ∙ The District high school will accept exit or end-of-year exams required from the sending state,
      national norm-referenced tests, or alternate testing instead of testing requirements for graduation
      in the District (receiving state.) If this is not possible, the alternative provision of the Interstate
      Compact shall be followed in order to facilitate the on-time graduation of the student in
      accordance with Compact provisions.

LEGAL REFS: M.G. L. 15E;
                 Interstate Compact on Educational Opportunity for Military Children




Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                                  File: JFABD

               HOMELESS STUDENTS: ENROLLMENT RIGHTS AND SERVICES


To the extent practical and as required by law, the district will work with homeless students and their
families to provide stability in school attendance and other services. Special attention will be given to
ensuring the enrollment and attendance of homeless students not currently attending school. Homeless
students will be provided district services for which they are eligible, including: Head Start and
comparable pre-school programs, Title I similar state programs, special education programs, bilingual
education, vocational and technical education programs, gifted and talented programs, school nutrition
programs, extracurricular activities/programs and summer school offerings.

Homeless students are defined as lacking a fixed, regular and adequate nighttime residence, including:
1. Sharing the housing of other persons due to loss of housing or economic hardship;
2. Living in motels, hotels, trailer parks or camping grounds due to the lack of alternative
adequate accommodations;
3. Living in emergency or transitional shelters;
4. Being abandoned in hospitals;
5. Awaiting foster care placement; (NOW REMOVED)
6. Living in public or private places not designed for or ordinarily used as regular sleeping
accommodations for human beings;
7. Living in cars, parks, public spaces, abandoned buildings, substandard housing, transportation
stations or similar settings;
8. Migratory children living in conditions described in the previous examples.

The Superintendent shall designate an appropriate staff person to be the district's liaison for homeless
students and their families.

To the extent feasible, homeless students will continue to be enrolled in their school of origin, including
their designated receiving school while they remain homeless or until the end of the academic year in
which they obtain permanent housing. Instead of remaining in the school of origin, parents or guardians
of homeless students may request enrollment in the school in the attendance area in which the student is
actually living, or their designated receiving school district. Attendance rights by living in attendance
areas, other student assignment policies, or intra and inter-district choice options are available to
homeless families on the same terms as families residing in the district.

If there is an enrollment dispute, the student shall be immediately enrolled in the school in which
enrollment is sought, pending resolution of the dispute. The parent or guardian shall be informed of the
district's decision and their appeal rights in writing. The district's liaison will carry out dispute resolution
as provided by state rule. Unaccompanied youth will also be enrolled pending resolution of the dispute.

Once the enrollment decision is made, the school shall immediately enroll the student, pursuant to
district policies and enrollment will be provided through the end of the school year in which a student
becomes permanently housed. If the student does not have immediate access to immunization records,

                                                                                                          1 of 2



Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                               File: JFABD

the student shall be admitted under a personal exception. Students and families should be encouraged to
obtain current immunization records or immunizations as soon as possible, and the district liaison is
directed to assist. Records from the student's previous school shall be requested from the previous
school pursuant to district policies. Emergency contact information is required at the time of
enrollment consistent with district policies, including compliance with the state's address
confidentiality program when necessary. Confidential living arrangements will be protected as part of
the student record.

Homeless students are entitled to transportation to their school of origin or the school where they are to
be enrolled. If the school of origin is in a different district, or a homeless student is living in another
district but will attend his or her school of origin, the districts will coordinate the transportation
services necessary for the student, or will divide the costs equally. Transportation will be provided
and/or costs divided equally through the end of the school year in which the student is permanently
housed.

The district's liaison for homeless students and their families shall coordinate with local social service
agencies that provide services to homeless children and youths and their families; other school districts
on issues of transportation and records transfers; and state and local housing agencies responsible for
comprehensive housing affordability strategies. This coordination includes providing public notice of
the educational rights of homeless students in schools, family shelters and soup kitchens. The district's
liaison will also review and recommend amendments to district policies that may act as barriers to the
enrollment of homeless students.

SOURCE: MASC

   LEGAL REFS.: The McKinney-Vento Act and Title I, Part A, as Amended by the Every Student
                                 Succeeds Act of 2015


                                                                                                      2 of 2
Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                             File: IHCA

                                        SUMMER SCHOOLS

The school system shall make available summer sessions as a supplement to the instruction offered
during the school year, when funding for such programs is available. The focus of the program will be
remedial work.
To attend tuition free summer school, students must have the approval of their classroom and/or special
subject teachers.
Students at all instructional levels may attend approved summer schools for remedial, enrichment, or
make-up purposes. Credit towards graduation requirements may be granted to high school students in
line with regulations of the School District.

All summer programs will be subject to annual approval by the School Committee.

SOURCE: MASC
LEGAL REF.: M.G.L. 71:28




Marblehead Public Schools Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                              File: IHBAA

                   OBSERVATIONS OF SPECIAL EDUCATION PROGRAMS


1. Parents' request to observe their child(ren), current program, or a potential placement must be made
    in writing at least five days in advance to the Director of Student Services or designee.

2. The Director of Student Services or designee shall contact the parent(s) for an initial scheduling
    conversation within five (5) days of receipt of the parents' request.

3. When a parent requests an observation of a special needs student or program, the Director of Student
   Services will seek approval from the building principal and appropriate level chairperson before it is
   processed. Such approval may only be withheld for those reasons outlined within law and DESE
   regulation.

4. The Director of Student Services or designee and Principal will work with the classroom teacher and
    the observer to set up the specifics of the observation (including, but not limited to, scheduling and
    placement of the observer in the classroom).

5. The number, frequency, and duration of observation periods will be determined on an individual
    student basis in accordance with law and regulation. The start and end time of observation periods
    and a schedule of observation periods will be stated in advance. In order to minimize classroom or
    student disruption, the length of individual observation periods may be limited.

6. If the observer is not the parent, the parent must provide a signed release for the individual to observe
     prior to the observation.

7. The number of observers at any one time may be limited.

8. The observer will be informed that he/she is not to interfere with the educational environment of the
    classroom. If his/her presence presents a problem, he/she will be asked to leave. This notice is
    particularly important, since the presence of parents can influence both the performance of their
    child(ren) and those of others.

9. The observer will be asked to submit his/her report of the observation in advance of any follow-up
    TEAM meeting.

10.The observer will be informed that he/she is there to evaluate the appropriateness of a specific
   educational program to meet the needs of an individual child. He/she is not there to evaluate a
   teacher's ability to perform his or her contractual job duties.

11.The observer will be instructed regarding the disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable
   information relating to other children. Staff must be mindful of removing materials which may be
   part of students' records from plain view. In the event that removal is not possible the observer may
   be asked to sign a non-disclosure agreement.
                                                                                                   1 of 2
Marblehead Public Schools Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                              File: IHBAA
12.The Director of Student Services or designee, will accompany the observer at all times and take
   notes as to what is observed, paying particular attention to note anything that is non-typical
   concerning the period. This observation summary will be placed in the student's file and provided to
   the parent(s) prior to any follow-up TEAM meeting.


LEGAL REFS: MGL 71B:3
                 Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education Technical
                   Assistance Advisory SPED 2009-2 dated January 8, 2009

CROSS REF.: KI, Visitors to Schools

SOURCE: MASC/Marblehead


NOTE: The following quotes from the DESE Advisory are important points of understanding to the
implementation of this policy.
"School districts and parents have reported that, typically, observations are between one and four hours.
While useful as a general rule, the Department recommends that district policies and practices specify
that the duration and extent of observations will be determined on an individual basis. Districts should
avoid rigid adherence to defined time limits regardless of the student's needs and settings to be observed.
The complexities of the student's needs, as well as the program or programs to be observed, should
determine what the observation will entail and what amount of time is needed to complete it. Discussion
between school staff and the parent or designee is a good starting point for resolving the issue."
"The observation law states that districts may not condition or restrict program observations except when
necessary to protect:
· the safety of students in the program during the observation;
· the integrity of the program during the observation;
· and students in the program from disclosure by an observer of confidential or personally identifiable
information he or she may obtain while observing the program."




                                                                                                      2 of 2


Marblehead Public Schools Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                      File: EBCFA



FACE COVERINGS



The Marblehead Public School District is committed to providing a safe environment as schools
reopen during the COVID-19 pandemic. According to public health experts, one of the best
ways to stop the spread of coronavirus and to keep members of our school community safe is
the use of face masks. Therefore, in accordance with guidance from the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention (CDC), the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education
(DESE), the Massachusetts Department of Public Health (DPH), and the Massachusetts
Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs, the following requirements are in place
until further notice.

A face mask that, per DPH and CDC guidance:

   ● covers the nose and mouth;
   ● fits securely and comfortably against the side of the face;
   ● is secured with ties or ear loops;
   ● allows for breathing without restriction;
   ● does NOT have an exhalation valve or vent; and
   ● can be laundered and machine dried without damage or change of shape

must be worn by all individuals in school buildings, on school grounds and on school
transportation, even when social distancing is observed. Exempted from this policy are
individuals under the age of 2. Families will be required to provide a daily face mask, along with
a backup face mask, if possible. Face masks should be labeled with the student's name.
Schools will have backup masks when needed should a face mask become soiled, broken or
misplaced.

Individuals may be excused from the requirement for the following list of reasons, per CDC
guidance:

The individual:
   ● has trouble breathing;
   ● is unconscious;
   ● is incapacitated;
   ● cannot remove the mask or face covering without assistance.

In addition, accommodations will be made for individuals for whom wearing face masks is not
possible or safe due to a medical condition, disability impact, a significant impediment to
communication, or other health or safety factors, which for students may include behavioral
challenges. Medical documentation acceptable to Marblehead Public Schools is required for a
requested accommodation. Any accommodations must be approved by the building Principal in
consultation with the school nurse or local board of health. A face shield or physical barrier is
not an acceptable substitute for a face mask unless it has been deemed appropriate with an
official exemption as part of the accommodation determination. Parents may not excuse their
child from the face mask requirement by signing a waiver.

Additionally, face masks will not be required:
       ● during mask breaks which will preferably occur outdoors, with a minimum of 6 feet of
        physical distance between individuals. All mask breaks are optional for the individual
     student. Students who do not want or need a mask break will not be forced to participate;
   ● while eating or drinking; which ideally occur outdoors and/or with maximum physical
       distancing.
   ● during physical education classes, chorus/choir, singing, brass & woodwind instruments or
       musical theater, all of which occur while outside with a minimum of 10 feet of physical
       distancing between individuals

A student’s mask is to be provided by the student’s family. Staff members will be supplied
masks. The district will supply a disposable face mask for individuals who arrive at a building, or
who board school transportation, without one. In addition to their required characteristics per
DPH and CDC guidance listed above, masks must be appropriate in compliance with the same
rules as are set forth in the school Dress Code and Student Handbook. No masks containing
offensive or inappropriate material will be allowed.

If a student refuses to wear a mask while at school and does not have a documented reason
that is consistent with this Policy, the student will be sent home. Currently, mask wearing is
mandated by the State of Massachusetts and the decision to dismiss a student for not wearing a
mask has been approved by the Marblehead Board of Health. While we strive to educate
through restorative justice principles, there will be progressive discipline for students who do not
follow the mask guidelines.

Violations of this policy by staff will be handled in the same manner as other violations of School
Committee policy or of the Marblehead Public Schools workplace rules and requirements.

Visitors in violation of this policy will be denied entry to the school/district

facility. This policy will remain in place until rescinded by the School Committee.



LEGAL REF.: Commonwealth of Massachusetts, COVID-19 Order No. 31 -
https://www.mass.gov/doc/may-1-2020-masks-and-face-coverings/download

REFS.: Center for Disease Control and Prevention – Considerations for Wearing Masks -
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/cloth-face-cover-guidance.html
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education – Reopening Guidelines
- http://www.doe.mass.edu/covid19/
Commonwealth of Massachusetts – Mask Up MA! –
https://www.mass.gov/news/mask-up-ma



SOURCE: MASC – August 2020




Marblehead Public Schools Approved 8/20/2020
February 26, 2021

The Honorable Lori Ehrlich
24 Beacon Street
Room 174
Boston, MA 02133

Dear Representative Ehrlich:

As you are aware, the Governor, Secretary of Education, and Commissioner of Education are
expecting students to return to school by April. We can all agree that it is imperative that children,
particularly those in grades K-5 are significantly impacted by a lack of in-person learning. While
we understand that the implementation of mitigation practices have minimized the transmission of
Coronavirus, the reality is that health and wellness of our educators and staff are essential in our
efforts to bring students back to full in person learning. The ideal way to do so is to have them
vaccinated. Vaccinated school personnel will certainly perform their jobs better with the peace of
mind that they are unlikely to become seriously ill.

With that said, we are requesting your advocacy to support the vaccination of school personnel through a
regional approach utilizing the soon to be approved Johnson and Johnson vaccine. Logistically, Johnson and
Johnson is expected to ship 20 million doses of their vaccine by “mid-March.” Simple math puts that at
400,000 doses per state. There are between 72,000 – 73,000 public school teachers in Massachusetts. We are
hopeful that a concerted effort to have the J&J vaccine distributed to cities and towns for vaccination with
the goal of vaccinating teachers and staff will allow them to focus on educating and supporting children and
begin to address the significant social emotional challenges the pandemic has created for students and
families. This would in no way interrupt the flow of the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines to the Mass and
regional vaccination sites.

Thank you in advance for your consideration. Please contact me with any questions you may have
or if there is any way that I can assist.

Sincerely,



John J. Buckey, Ed.D.
Superintendent of Schools
Marblehead Public Schools
