MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT (“Agreement”)
BETWEEN
THE MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE (“Committee”)
AND
THE MARBLEHEAD EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (“MEA”),
collectively referred to as the “Parties”

Regarding the Reopening of Schools for the 2020 — 2021 School Year
August 2020

WHEREAS, the Superintendent, the Committee, represented by the Chair and the Union have
engaged in good faith negotiations regarding the reopening of school for the 2020-2021 school
year;

WHEREAS, absent a reasonable accommodation based on ADA accommodations approved
and provided by the Superintendent,educators will be required to report to their school building
or other assigned work location within the District for the 2020 —2021 school year to perform
their work, unless the Committee or Superintendent closes the schools for public health reasons
and/or educators are directed otherwise by the Superintendent; and

WHEREAS, the Parties wish to memorialize their understanding about certain aspects of
the reopening of school for the 2020-2021 school year in a more detailed Memorandum of
Agreement to be finalized prior to the start of school for students on September 14, 2020;

NOW THEREFORE, the Parties agree that a temporary suspension of the requirement of
educators to report to their school building or other assigned work location will be in effect until
such time as the following ventilation considerations are attended:

1. Prior to the occupation of all buildings, the HVAC system shall be inspected by an
independent certified HVAC professional selected by the Superintendent and agreed
upon by the Association. A copy of the report will be provided to the Association in
accordance with MGL ch. 150E.

2. All air exchange apparti should have dampers opened 100% for the introduction of
outside air (OA). This should continue if possible whether the building is occupied or
not. All system fans shall be set to “on” at all times people are present and shall be
turned on 1 hour prior to /and after general building occupancy or until the building air is
purged (ie: a total of 3 air exchanges). All building exhaust fans shall be in working
order and continuously on 1 hour prior to and after general building occupancy for
purging, except the bathrooms, nurse’s office and isolation rooms, which will be
exhausted and supplied OA 24/7.

3. If a building lacks an air exchange apparatus, windows shall remain open to promote air
exchange.

4. As recommended by MHD BOH personal fans are prohibited from use when students
are present in a room.
5. ACO2 test should result in the DPH recommended range of 800ppm of CO2 or less in
any given space when it is normally occupied. In the event of a higher CO2, additional
OA will be provided.

6. AMERY 13 filtration system or greater will be used and air leaks/gaps will be sealed
around filters. In no instance will a filter be less than a MERV 8.

7. Ifthe system cannot accommodate a MERV 13 filter, a portable HEPA filtration air
purifier (or equally effective air purification device) will be used that operates on a
100cfm per 250 sqft. In the event that the space is larger than 250 sqft, the space
should have multiple air filters to condition the space.

8. Humidity shall be maintained between 40% and 60%.

9. Installation of ultraviolet light purifying systems may be installed by a professional should
a determination be made jointly one is necessary in a given space.

10. All classroom windows must be functioning properly.

The Parties acknowledge that the independent inspections are being scheduled. The
Superintendent, the Chair of the Committee, the Executive Board of MEA, including the
President, the Director of Facilities, the Director of the Marblehead Board of Health and each
building Principal have conducted a walkthrough at each school, addressing questions about air
quality, temperatures and other working conditions. Aside from the independent inspections,
there are, at this time, no unresolved issues that would prevent educators from reporting to their
school building or other assigned work location within the District for the 2020 —2021 school
year to perform their work. IfMwhen the independent inspections indicate that ventilation
conditions are met for safely returning staff, MEA in collaboration with the Superintendent will
provide staff one working day notice for a return to in-person work.

Staff who want to return to in-person work prior to the inspection report are welcome to return.
All Parties acknowledge that the period of August 31 until September 11 is considered
Contractual workdays. All staff are expected to be “present” and engaged regardless of working
remotely or in-person during this period. Professional Development schedules have been
shared by the Assistant Superintendent and each building principal. Attendance during these
days and at these scheduled sessions is mandatory.

MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE, MARBLEHEAD TEACHERS ASSOCIATION
BY: , BY:

dines GHecler.
Sarah Gold, Chair JoarMiller, President

Date:_2/ 23] Z0z0 Date: (ze Z0Z0
