File: EBCFA

FACE COVERINGS

The Marblehead Public School District is committed to providing a safe environment as schools
reopen during the COVID-19 pandemic. According to public health experts, one of the best
ways to stop the spread of coronavirus and to keep members of our school community safe is
the use of face masks. Therefore, in accordance with updated guidance from the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the Department of Elementary and Secondary
Education (DESE), the Massachusetts Department of Public Health (DPH), and the
Massachusetts Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs, the following
requirements are in place until further notice.

A face mask that, per DPH and CDC guidance:

e covers the nose and mouth;

e fits securely and comfortably against the side of the face;

e is secured with ties or ear loops;

e allows for breathing without restriction;

e does NOT have an exhalation valve or vent; and

e can be laundered and machine dried without damage or change of shape

must be worn by all individuals inside school buildings (including all schools and the school
district central offices) and on school transportation. Students are exempt from masking
requirements when outdoors on school property, even when social distancing cannot be
maintained. All other individuals who are not students must continue to wear masks outdoors
on school property when social distancing cannot be maintained, bles as. ial

dictanoing-is-obeerved. individuals attending scheohapengéded ‘events that do not occur on

school property are subject to the masking requirements applicable to that property.

-Exempted from this policy are individuals under the age of 2. Families will be required to
provide a daily face mask, along with a backup face mask, if possible. Face masks should be
labeled with the student's name. Schools will have backup masks when needed should a face
mask become soiled, broken or misplaced.

Individuals may be excused from the requirement for the following list of reasons, per CDC
guidance:

The individual:
e has trouble breathing;
e is unconscious;
e is incapacitated;
¢ cannot remove the mask or face covering without assistance.
In addition, accommodations will be made for individuals for whom wearing face masks is not
possible or safe due to a medical condition, disability impact, a significant impediment to
communication, or other health or safety factors, which for students may include behavioral
challenges. Medical documentation acceptable to Marblehead Public Schools is required for a
requested accommodation. Any accommodations must be approved by the building Principal in
consultation with the school nurse or local board of health. A face shield or physical barrier is
not an acceptable substitute for a face mask unless it has been deemed appropriate with an
official exemption as part of the accommodation determination. Parents may not excuse their
child from the face mask requirement by signing a waiver.

Additionally, face masks will not be required:

e during mask breaks-which-will- preferably occuroutdesrs, with a minimum of 6 feet of

physical distance between individuals. All mask breaks are optional for the individual
student. Students who do not want or need a mask break will not be forced to participate e

while eating or drinking-whichidealh-occurcuideors-and/ior with maximunphysicat-

A student's mask is to be provided by the student's family. Staff members will be supplied
masks. The district will supply a disposable face mask for individuals who arrive at a building, or
who board school transportation, without one. In addition to their required characteristics per
DPH and CDC guidance listed above, masks must be appropriate in compliance with the same
rules as are set forth in the school Dress Code and Student Handbook. No masks containing
offensive or inappropriate material will be allowed.

If a student refuses to wear a mask while insideat school buildings and does not have a
documented reason that is consistent with this Policy, the student will be sent home. Currently,
mask wearing is mandated by the State of Massachusetts and the decision to dismiss a student
for not wearing a mask has been approved by the Marblehead Board of Health. While we strive
to educate through restorative justice principles, there will be progressive discipline for students
who do not follow the mask guidelines.

Violations of this policy by staff will be handled in the same manner as other violations of School
Committee policy or of the Marblehead Public Schools workplace rules and requirements.

Visitors in violation of this policy will be denied entry to the school/district facility.

This policy will remain in place until rescinded by the School Committee.

LEGAL REF.: Commonwealth of Massachusetts, COVID-19 Order No. 31 -
https://www.mass.gov/doc/may-1-2020-masks-and-face-coverings/download

REFS.: Center for Disease Control and Prevention — Considerations for Wearing Masks -
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/cloth-face-cover-
guidance.html Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education —
Reopening Guidelines - http:/www.doe.mass.edu/covid19/

Commonwealth of Massachusetts — Mask Up MA! —
https://www.mass.gov/news/mask-up-ma

SOURCE: MASC —

Marblehead Public Schools Originally approved August 2020, Revised 5/133/2021;
Revised 5/19/21
