                                                                                            DATE POSTED:

                                                                                                      Town Clerk Use Only




                                               MEETING NOTICE
           POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONSOF MGL 30A §§18-25 and the Governor’s March 12, 2020 Executive order



                                        Marblehead School Committee
                                               Name of Board or Committee

Address:    Zoom Conference join via the web link or Dial in
              Link:
              https://zoom.us/j/92662657863?pwd=dFQ1L1hsZFZCcWhsZlVUVGxjelpOQT09
              Dial in Phone # (415) 762-9988 with ID and follow prompts
              Meeting ID: 926 6265 7863
              Password: 934149

         Thursday                   April                   29th                   2021                 7:00pm
        Day of Week                 Month                   Date                   Year                  Time

           Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)


                                            THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

   I.   Initial Business and Public Involvement
        a. Call to Order
        b. School Committee Commendations
        c. Public Comment

   II. Superintendent’s Report
       a. Presentation of Entry Plan
       b. Strategic Plan Development Process

   III. School Committee and/or Discussion Items
        Discussion of Superintendent Evaluation Process

   IV. Closing Business
       Adjournment


Chairperson    Sarah Gold
Posted by      Lisa Dimier
Date           4/27/2021
                                                                                            File: BEDH

                 PUBLIC COMMENT AT SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETINGS


All regular and special meetings of the School Committee shall be open to the public. Executive sessions
will be held only as prescribed by the Statutes of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

The School Committee desires citizens of the District to attend its meetings so that they may become
better acquainted with the operations and the programs of our local public schools. In addition, the
Committee would like the opportunity to hear the wishes and ideas of the public.

In order that all citizens who wish to be heard before the Committee have a chance and to ensure the
ability of the Committee to conduct the District's business in an orderly manner, the following rules and
procedures are adopted:

   1. At the start of each regularly scheduled School Committee meeting, individuals or group
      representatives will be invited to address the Committee. The Chair shall determine the length of
      the public participation segment.

   2. Speakers will be allowed three (3) minutes to present their material. The presiding Chair (or a
      majority vote of the committee) may permit extension of this time limit.

   3. Individuals may address topics, within the scope of responsibility of the School Committee.

   4. Improper conduct and remarks will not be allowed. Defamatory or abusive remarks are always out
      of order. If a speaker persists in improper conduct or remarks, the Chair may terminate that
      individual's privilege of address.

   5. All remarks will be addressed through the Chair of the meeting.

   6. Speakers may offer such objective criticisms of the school operations and programs as concern
      them, but in public session the Committee will not hear personal complaints of school personnel
      nor against any member of the school community. Under most circumstances, administrative
      channels are the proper means for disposition of legitimate complaints involving staff members.

   7. Written comments longer than three (3) minutes may be presented to the Committee before or after
      the meeting for the Committee members' review and consideration at an appropriate time.

   8. Public Comment is not a discussion, debate, or dialogue between citizens and the Committee. It is
      a citizen's opportunity to express his/her opinion on issues of School Committee business. The
      Committee and/or administrator's may not be prepared to directly respond to citizen questions
      posed in this forum but the Chair may request that citizens put the question in writing to the
      appropriate person or body so that the matter is given the proper consideration.


SOURCE: Marblehead



Marblehead Public Schools         -    Approved 10/18/18
                 Marblehead Public Schools
                                      INTRODUCTION

As the new Superintendent of the Marblehead Public Schools, the School Committee has
charged me with maintaining a legacy of high achievement while ensuring that all learners’
needs across the District are met. A commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion has been
clearly identified as an area for further growth and development for MPS.

During the search and selection process, the Marblehead School Committee engaged
stakeholders from across the District to develop and communicate its priorities for the qualities
of the next Superintendent. The two primary preferences for their next educational leader were
someone who would be a collaborative and inclusive leader and someone who would
demonstrate strategic systemic leadership. Under the umbrella of being collaborative and
inclusive were the following delineations: consummate professional, excellent communication
skills, values and encourages an involved community, skilled in conflict management, decisive,
visible and known in the community and comfortable in a political environment. In
demonstrating strategic systemic leadership, the community through the Committee put value on
someone who holds himself accountable, is skilled at long- and short-range planning, has a
proven ability to hire well and to mentor, supervise and hold accountable leaders, works
effectively with School Committee, Town and Community leaders and is experienced in creating
effective student support services.

Marblehead Public Schools has a solid reputation across the Commonwealth for high academic
achievement and an accomplished faculty and staff. Given a track record of success for students
and staff, the district is well positioned to build capacity as a highly functioning system through
stable leadership in the coming years.
                 Marblehead Public Schools
                                           PURPOSE

                   “Alone we can do so little. Together we can do so much.”
                                                                                      --Helen Keller

The purpose of a traditional entry plan is to establish a set of intentional and inclusive activities
that will guide the transition of the new superintendent into Marblehead Public Schools. An
entry process is designed to allow the new Superintendent to gather information about the
community and the district; to establish a strong community presence; to create ideas for
sustaining and/or building on the current work and strengthening MPS’ record of success. Entry
planning also provides opportunities for short-term/long-term visioning and areas for strategic
planning; identification of critical issues and the creation of a community network of contacts
and resources.

This entry plan outlines the specific strategies that Superintendent, Dr. John Buckey, utilized to
develop a deeper understanding of what MPS has done and is doing well, where there are
opportunities for growth and improvement and how the community at large can support and
advise the Superintendent in each of the aforementioned areas as we collaboratively develop a
new Strategic Plan for Marblehead Public Schools.

Purpose of the Superintendent’s Entry Plan
   ● To learn about the Marblehead Public Schools and the larger community
   ● To identify key strengths of the District to be continued and sustained
   ● To identify key issues and opportunities that the District faces
   ● To develop and strengthen working relationships with key members of the school district,
      town government, and the greater community
   ● To improve public confidence and trust through open, honest and transparent
      communication
                 Marblehead Public Schools
Over the past several years, the Marblehead Public Schools has undergone substantial turmoil
with every position at the Central Office changing, including reorganizations and eliminations of
key positions. A majority of these changes occurred after a very public departure of the former
Superintendent. The results were evident in the hiring of an interim Superintendent (2019-2020),
a new Director of Finance (2019), an interim Director of Student Services (2019) and the
extension of an interim Director of Facilities (2019). At the end of the interim’s year, the District
has hired a new Superintendent, Assistant Superintendent of Teaching & Learning, a permanent
Director of Student Services and Director of Facilities. Additionally, there has been some
reorganization of the roles within the larger administrative team and a new assistant principal has
been hired at the Veterans Middle School. An ongoing search for a new Metco Director and a
budgeted position for the return of a Human Resources Director round out the numerous changes
seen over the past several years.

The District is currently in the process of developing a master facilities plan that will have a
long-term impact on the future of our school buildings and how we deliver education to our
students within them. We are also at the precipice of opening a new $55 million dollar
elementary school - The Lucretia and Joseph Brown School in September of 2021.

                           3-PHASES OF THE ENTRY PLAN




It was and is incumbent upon me to take the necessary time to learn about the system as a whole
in order to be a successful leader for the Marblehead Public Schools. The Covid-19 pandemic
                 Marblehead Public Schools
has significantly altered what would be a traditional entry plan. I designed my entry plan to
provide a holistic picture of the Marblehead Public Schools, identifying strengths and challenges,
as well as highlighting the best opportunities for growth in the coming years. These key
discoveries will inform and serve as pillars throughout the upcoming Strategic Planning process.

Initial Steps: As part of this entry process, I interviewed or held forums with students, staff,
administrators, parents and various community stakeholders. I also conducted school visits
where I observed learning in classrooms. I reviewed documentation, policies, and reports to
further explore the context of our work. Each interview focused on the following key questions:


   ●    What do I need to know very early in my superintendency?
   ●    What has happened in the past that I need to be mindful of?
   ●    What are the key issues that need to be addressed immediately? In a year?
   ●    What is the community's perception of the schools?
   ●    What’s going well? What is deemed highly successful and high functioning?
   ●    What needs attention? What would benefit from review or revision?
   ●    What priorities should we establish for our work?
   ●    Who are three people you feel I should talk to?

                                       STRUCTURES

Active listening and authentic engagement - even in the unprecedented time of Covid - are
paramount in effectively ascertaining what is working in MPS and where there might be
opportunities for growth and development. The core components of each phase are as follows:

Phase I and II - Listening and learning dominated nearly all of Phase I and the early stages of
Phase II. I held numerous individual and group meetings with various stakeholders and
constituents across the community and the District. During July and August I hosted parent,
school-based and faculty forums, which I framed as listening sessions.

Phase II and III - Leading was and will be the dominant aspect of Phases II and III of the Entry
Plan. They will culminate with the development and presentation of the Plan to the School
Committee and community, which will serve as the basis for beginning a formal Strategic
Planning Process. Both phases include further building and sustaining relationships across the
District and community.

NOTE: The work of entry planning occurred simultaneously with operating the District
during COVID-19.
               Marblehead Public Schools
Pre-Entry
  ● Develop and share the entry plan with the School Committee and Leadership Team for
    feedback, inclusion and guidance.
  ● Gather salient information from key stakeholders about the district and their work.

Pre-Entry and Entry Activities
  ❏ Visits and tours of each school
  ❏ Meetings (group and individual) and a workshop with the School Committee on Strategic
    Planning lead by MASC and MASS
  ❏ Meetings (group and individual) with key leaders: principals, assistant principals, district
    directors, community leaders, union leadership, elected officials and various other
    stakeholders.
  ❏ Community meetings (listening sessions) with parents, students, educators, and other
    community stakeholders
  ❏ Document reviews and data analysis
                 Marblehead Public Schools
The Entry Plan sets overarching goals that are addressed in the pre-entry and entry activities
reviewed later in this document. Among the goals identified are:

Students - All of our decisions must be guided by what’s best for ALL students. We need to
focus our efforts as well as our resources to ensure that the Marblehead Public School experience
prepares students academically, socially and emotionally for success. Our Vision of a
Marblehead graduate must include all learners and the tools necessary to achieve the core
competencies for a successful life after graduation. To ensure this, teachers must have the
curricula, tools, systems, supports and resources necessary to provide high quality instruction.

Communication - Regular, open, honest and transparent communication are critical to building
trust and confidence in me and the system. It is vital that I understand the culture, history and
expectations of the entire Marblehead community. Working with the Leadership team and the
School Committee, I will be proactive in engaging all stakeholders, ensuring that all voices are
heard.

Culture & Climate - We must endeavor to develop, sustain and promote a climate in the district
and in each of our schools that is collaborative and constructive. Our most important focus is
ensuring a culture that is student-centered and focused on positive outcomes and achievement for
all students.

Organizational Structures, Systems, Capacity & Alignment - Explore ways to assess and
increase organizational effectiveness and efficiency. It is critical that I understand how the
system operates outside of the Covid-19 focus that has been this year. I need to understand what
is working well and where there might be areas for growth or refinement. The Leadership
Team’s primary role is to support the key functions of the district. It is my responsibility that we
function as a highly effective, cross-functional team. We must dedicate ourselves to a positive
and professional culture where our primary purpose is meeting the needs of ALL learners. To
build trust, we should use the following three-pronged approach in our decision-making:
    ● Is it good for ALL children?
    ● Is it best practice/evidenced based and supported through data?
    ● Is it fiscally sound and responsible?

Governance - Continue to develop and strengthen the governance team - School Committee &
Superintendent - relationships. The Committee and I must establish a trusting, positive,
collaborative and team-oriented relationship. To be worthy of that trust, I will share openly,
transparently and honestly issues and matters of governance, management, operations as well as
my core values and beliefs.
                 Marblehead Public Schools
To achieve these goals, I will continue to undertake the following:

Listen - I will spend time with all stakeholders - students, teachers, parents, principals, directors,
other MPS employees and members of the larger Marblehead community to hear about their
understandings of the district as well as their ideas, hopes, fears and concerns.

Learn - Analyze and study performance data and other student data from across MPS. Read and
review current policies and plans - technology, strategic, curriculum. Examine historical and
current initiatives. Review current collaborations with local educational organizations.

Share - Engage the community. Attend events where I can connect with students, staff and
families. Participate in community events in order to get to know Marblehead leaders and
organizations. Strive to set and model a positive tone while developing trust in a shared sense of
urgency in our collective work together.

Build - Establish strong working relationships with the School Committee, MPS Leadership
Team and staff, as well as with the town and its leaders. Engage community, state and local
leaders to establish a collaborative working relationship. Maintain an open door policy at Widger
Road and my office in particular.

Plan - Review the expiring Strategic Plan with specific aim to launch an open and transparent
process for developing the next plan. Be deliberate in aligning resources to the newly developed
plan.

The outcomes from this process should yield the following for Marblehead Public Schools:

   1. A comprehensive summary of my entry findings, observations and information gained
      from listening and learning.
   2. An outline of the process we will use to develop a current strategic plan in collaboration
      with the School Committee, Marblehead school community and the broader community
      of Marblehead using the Planning for Success model from DESE.
   3. A district and community who trust the process, are encouraged to participate and are
      excited about the future and direction of Marblehead Public Schools.
   4. A community who feels valued, recognized and heard by the Superintendent who desires
      to work collaboratively with the schools and the community.
                Marblehead Public Schools
                    Goal 1: Students
   ...focus our efforts as well as our resources to ensure that the Marblehead Public School
        experience prepares students academically, socially and emotionally for success.




Pre-Entry Activities
April to June 2020
 Analyze student achievement data - MCAS, AP, SAT, ACT

 Assess the district’s expectations for all students’ academic success and the
 district’s commitment to meeting the needs of diverse learners.

 Review reports and audits done internally or conducted by any outside group
 or organization - DESE, NEASC, etc.


Entry Activities
July to December & to date (Phases II & III)
 Meet with MPS Leadership Team (Assistant Superintendent, Directors,
 Principals and Assistant Principals) to discuss district data; instructional
 program alignment; professional development plans to assess and meet current
 instructional and assessment needs; our capacity to meet short and long-term
 goals; priority areas for the district.

 Investigate how MPS uses data. Explore how data informs determining
 students who are performing at or above grade-level and how our Response to
 Intervention or MTSS process addresses the needs of students performing
 below grade level.

 Meet with the MPS Technology Team and review Technology Plans. Assess
 our level of technology integration and how it impacts learning outcomes.

 Work with the Assistant Superintendent to review and evaluate our current
 curricula, assessment programs and instructional staff.

 Evaluate the current processes that are in place to provide the following
 services: Guidance, Counseling, Mental Health and Social Services.
               Marblehead Public Schools
Review the educator evaluation process and all other employee evaluation
systems.
                 Marblehead Public Schools
                  Goal 2: Communications
Regular, open, honest and transparent communication are critical to building trust and
confidence...ensuring that all voices are heard.




Pre-Entry Activities
April to June 2020
 Reach out and begin to establish working relationships with key leaders and
 stakeholders in Marblehead.

 Send out an introductory email to all teachers, staff and families.

 Conduct one-on-one (zoom) meetings with all district directors and
 administrators.

 Assess the quality, effectiveness, facility and capacity of all existing forms of
 communication.


Entry Activities
July to December & to date (Phases II & III)
 Establish routine communication protocols - Twitter, Updates, Fireside chats.

 Host forums (listening sessions) with teachers, students, parents and leaders as
 a means for personal communication about critical issues facing our district.
 (Implement as part of the Strategic Planning process)

 Attend/participate in existing meeting structures - PCO, Friends, PAC, Green
 MHD, Sustainable Marlbehead.

 Begin planning for the development of a 3-5 years Strategic Plan that includes
 all stakeholders, including community leaders and a representative group of
 MPS. (Ongoing through September, 2021)

 Conduct a meeting with MPD and MFD Chiefs.

 Establish and maintain a Reopening Group that serves as an advisory group for
 issues relating for learning models.
               Marblehead Public Schools
Develop and sustain a community relations liaison position.
                Marblehead Public Schools
                Goal 3: Culture & Climate
...develop, sustain and promote a climate in the district...that is collaborative and
constructive…[with] a culture that is student-centered and focused on positive outcomes and
achievement for all students.




Pre-Entry Activities
April to June 2020
 Develop quality relationships with key district leadership and meet with all
 directors and administration departments regularly.

 Broadly communicate an “open door policy” and my personal commitment to
 presuming positive intentions. Affirm and celebrate the strengths and assets of
 the district while being transparent and honest about what needs attention.



Entry Activities
July to December & to date (Phases II & III)
 Develop and conduct district-wide employee surveys to gain a comprehensive
 picture of the morale and culture.

 Conduct regular school visits to build relationships with administration,
 teachers, staff and students.

 Hold Superintendent Coffees to hear ideas, concerns and suggestions.

 Distribute regular communications and outreach from the Superintendent's
 Office to celebrate achievements of students and staff across the district.

 Develop a system to showcase school, staff and students successes at School
 Committee meetings.

 Identify, budget for and hire critical team members supporting culture and
 climate initiatives across the district.
       Marblehead Public Schools
Goal 4: Structures, systems, capacity & alignment
Increase organizational effectiveness and efficiency and ensure high performance and support
to our schools.




Pre-Entry Activities
April to June 2020
 Develop goal areas for entry planning and activities, which will serve as the
 Superintendent's goals.

 Explore and review publicly accessible student achievement data, contracts,
 budget documents, School Committee meeting minutes, District Policy
 manuals, policies/procedures.

 Meet (Zoom) with the Director of Student Services to review programming,
 services, OOD placements and grants.

 Meet with the President of the Marblehead Educators Association to establish
 a working relationship and to understand the history of the Association.

 Examine district-wide and school-based systems and how they impact
 stakeholders.


Entry Activities
July to December & to date (Phases II & III)
 Connect with each School Committee member to deepen relationships and
 broaden perspectives

 Establish a regular system of communication with the Committee via phone
 calls, emails and meetings. Encourage individual meetings each week.

 Develop a regular meeting schedule with the Chair for reviewing and
 constructing agendas

 Hold a workshop with the Committee for the purpose of discussing
 communication protocols, norms of behavior and interaction, expectations for
 the first year, agenda setting process and subcommittee assignments.
               Marblehead Public Schools
Conduct informal meetings (single, two-on one, three-on one) with Committee
members - coffees, breakfast, lunch - to build positive, productive
relationships.

Hold weekly MEA leadership meetings to establish positive relationships and
to understand perspectives.

Draft and develop goals for the year and regularly update the Committee on
progress and attainment.

Collaborate on the performance evaluation process and format that is aligned
to the Massachusetts Educator Evaluation for Superintendents with indicators
of success outlined for the first year.
                 Marblehead Public Schools
                     Goal 5: Governance
...develop and strengthen the governance team - School Committee & Superintendent -
relationships.




Pre-Entry Activities
April to June 2020
 Draft goal areas for Entry Plan & corresponding activities.

 Review critical documents to help frame current and historic conditions -
 student achievement data, School Committee minute/meetings, grants,
 curriculum documents, Policies and procedures.

 Review Entry Plan process and timeline with the School Committee.

 Connect with School Committee Chair and individual Committee members to
 deepen relationships and understanding/perspectives.

 Meet with Marblehead Educators Association (MEA) president to establish a
 good working relationship.



Entry Activities
July to December & to date (Phases II & III)
 Establish regular meeting times with the Chair for reviewing and developing
 meeting agendas.

 Develop and maintain regular communications with each Committee member
 in the form of emails, calls, Zooms and in-person office meetings.

 Hold a workshop or retreat with the Committee for the purpose of discussing
 communication protocols, norms of behavior and interactions, general
 expectations for the first year, subcommittee roles and responsibilities.

 Establish at least two dates for retreats with the Committee for the year.
               Marblehead Public Schools
Continue to build positive, productive relationships with the Committee
through regular, open, transparent communication - calls, emails, meetings.

Meet with all MPS Leaders and Directors to continue to build positive
relationships and broaden perspectives.

Collaborate on the performance evaluation process and format that is aligned to
the Massachusetts Educator Evaluation for Superintendents with indicators of
success outlined for the first year.
                 Marblehead Public Schools

               Interviews and Focus Groups
After being hired in January, I worked informally with the Interim Superintendent to begin
ascertaining opportunities for me to engage to learn more about the district. I scheduled and
conducted interviews via Zoom with the Leadership Team in April 2020. When I began officially
in July, I conducted one-on-one meetings and group listening sessions with various
stakeholders to listen and learn about Marblehead Public Schools as well as to address the
implication of Covid-19 on the district. The following list of individuals and groups were engaged
formally and informally in the entry process. This is not an exhaustive list.

   ❏ School Committee Members                           ❏ METCO Staff and Leadership

   ❏ District Office Administrators &                   ❏ PCO/PTO & Central Council

       Support Staff                                    ❏ Nursing/Health Services

   ❏ School Principals & Assistant                      ❏ Custodial & Food Service staff

       Principals                                       ❏ Finance Committee Chair

   ❏ Parents                                            ❏ Marblehead Educators Association

   ❏ Students                                           ❏ Town Administrator

   ❏ Friends of Marblehead Public                       ❏ Building Committee

       Schools                                          ❏ Police & Fire

   ❏ Student Services Administrators and                ❏ Faith Leaders

       staff                                            ❏ Civic Organizations

   ❏ Teachers K-12                                      ❏ Council on Aging

   ❏ Racial Justice League                              ❏ YMCA

   ❏ Recreation & Park                                  ❏ JCC

   ❏ Board of Health                                    ❏ Sustainable Marblehead

   ❏ SEPAC
            Marblehead Public Schools
         The First Days - Office & Schools
My first official day in the office was Wednesday, July 1, 2020; however, my work for the
Marblehead Public Schools had begun informally months prior with Zoom meetings and
document reviews. The Interim Superintendent arranged for me to be in District with him for
three days prior to his departure. A total of five days were spent together from January to July
in preparation for the transition.

While the pandemic has created several “first days of school” I have tried to be out and in the
buildings as much as possible, especially during the milestone days where we had increased
students and staff time on campus and in our classrooms. It is gratifying even in the turmoil of
this year to have students begin to recognize me when I visit a classroom or attend an event. I
have worked hard to be a visible presence, attending virtual events like Urinetown and
participating in live classroom activities like cooking classes at MHS.

The Leadership Team has understandably spent most of the year deeply focused on learning
models, mitigation efforts and developing safety protocols. Their work has supported our
transition back to full in-person learning. From a full remote start to hybrid cohorts for half days
to combined cohorts for half days, we finally arrived at full in-person learning five days a week
for full school days on Monday, April 26, 2021.
          Marblehead Public Schools

                        Observations

★ Instruction - Marblehead educators are the foundation of educational
  excellence in our district. They are perseverant and resilient in spite of
  some structural and systemic challenges in terms of curriculum and
  assessment resources and opportunities.
★ Marblehead Educators Association - They are partners in this work and
  collaborative in their approach to sustaining excellence in education.
★ Parents & Families - The support of our various parent groups - PTO,
  PCO, Boosters, Friends, SEPAC, Site Councils - augment the Marblehead
  Public Schools in significant and tangible ways PreK-12.
★ Community - Marblehead supports the education in its community through
  partnerships, fundraising, volunteerism and engagement.
★ Facilities - The recently completed audit identifies work to be done in
  terms of a master plan, but the district is fortunate to have buildings that
  support the education of students in developmentally appropriate and safe
  facilities.


❏ Curriculum - The district needs to have a more aligned scope and
  sequence where the curriculum is readily available in a common format
  across grade levels and buildings.
❏ Assessment - We need to implement a comprehensive assessment
  system, including formative and summative common assessments, that
  uses data to inform decision-making regarding curriculum and instruction.
❏ Technology - While the work is underway, there remains infrastructure,
  hardware and software, programs and curricula that need to be addressed
  in order to provide our students with 21st century learning skills.
                 Marblehead Public Schools
                   Conclusion & Next Steps
The entry process, even as interrupted as it has been by the pandemic, has afforded me
numerous opportunities to learn more about Marblehead Public Schools, our stakeholder
groups - students, parents, teachers, staff, leaders and the School Committee - and the
community. It is with this information and our developing relationships, we will review the
findings of this plan at a School Committee meeting. After a presentation to the Committee, we
will be embarking on a detailed, intentional, thoughtful and collaborative strategic planning
process. The strategic planning process will be informed, in part, by the data, information and
outcomes of this entry plan.

The final phase of this process ensures that Marblehead Public Schools maintains its legacy of
high-performance and excellence while strengthening our commitment to diversity, equity and
inclusion for ALL students. Similarly, this work will continue our collective desire to be
transparent and worthy of the public trust. Such trust builds positive school and district culture
and positions us well to build the future together.

Despite entering the district during a pandemic and the unprecedented challenges this year has
presented for everyone, it is daily my honor to lead this exceptional district. The level of
professionalism and commitment of our dedicated staff, students and families reminds me of the
bright future ahead we have to collaborate for the continuous improvement of our system. I am
proud to be your Superintendent.
                Marblehead Public Schools
                         Acknowledgements
I would like to acknowledge the following individuals, colleagues and organizations whose
support has helped to guide the organization and development of this entry plan.

   ★ Dr. Chris McGrath

   ★ Mr. Bill McAlduff

   ★ Massachusetts Association of School Superintendents (MASS)

   ★ Massachusetts Association of School Committees (MASC)

   ★ New England School Development Council (NESDEC)

   ★ Mrs. Nan Murphy

   ★ Mrs. Lisa Dimier
Developing a
District Strategy
for
Continuous
Improvement

Marblehead School Committee
A plan of action or policy designed to achieve a major or
overall aim
Dictionary.com

1. A careful plan or method for achieving a particular goal
usually over a long period of time.
2. The skill of making or carrying out plans to achieve a goal.
 Merriam Webster

1. A method or plan chosen to bring about a desired future,
such as achievement of a goal or solution to a problem.
2. The art and science of planning and marshalling resources
for their most efficient and effective use.
Business Dictionary
Why Set Goals?
   Goal setting is the process by which a school board
   exercises leadership

   If the board doesn’t set goals, special interest groups will

   Setting goals enables the board and superintendent to
   keep the district on a continuous improvement track

   Goals let employees and the community know where the
   district is headed


                                                            7
            Ensure
           Alignment
                        Goals
Monitor
Progress
                        Frame
                           &
                       Structure
                         Work
 Budget
 Support
            School Committee
                 Goals
New vs. Old
District Strategies     Strategic Plan
• Adaptive              • Static
• Agile/Responsive      • Cumbersome
• Integrate a few key   • Discrete, unrelated
  ideas                   initiatives
• Focuses on doing a    • Broad, incremental
  few key things well     approach
Elements of the Plan
                  Why we exist
                  Our vision for the future. Our North Star

                  Guiding principles
                  Things we won’t compromise on


                  If we take this course of action,
                  Then we will get this result

                    3-5 INTEGRATED broad objectives
                    Targeted vision statements
                    3 to 5 year horizon

               Specific Measurable Attainable Results-oriented Timebound
               Shorter horizon

                Who does what and by when
By Any Other Name…
   Why we exist (Mission)

     The future we seek
     (Vision)

        Broad Objectives (Overarching
        Goals, Goals, Strategic Objectives,
        etc.)

            Specific, Short-range Objectives
            (SMART Goals, Strategic Initiatives,
            Action Plans, etc.)
                                   Overarching
                                     Goals
                                                                                 Ensure
                                                                                 Alignment

           Annual Report                                 Annual SMART             SC Goals
           Superintendent                               Goals, Strategies
             Evaluation                                   Benchmarks


Monitor
Progress

                                                                            Budget
                                                 Link Goals to              Support
                      Monitoring                  Budget and
                      Progress                     Collective
                                                  Bargaining
                                                                               Policy
          • Assess current conditions
          • Future trends
  Scan
          • SWOT analysis

          • What overarching goals will ensure the district reaches its vision?
          • Match strengths to identified opportunities.
  Plan    • Address the weaknesses and external threats.


          • Who does the work? When does it happen? Where does it happen?
Implement • How will we assess progress?


         • Is our plan achieving the goals we have set?
         • If not, what needs to change to make progress?
         • Five steps of Evaluation:
           • 1. Define objectives to be measured
           • 2. Identify the outcome desired for each objective
Evaluate
           • 3. Evaluate progress by gathering & reporting appropriate information & data
           • 4. Compare evaluation with desired outcome
           • 5. Adjust strategies as necessary
   NSIP - Year One Work
            • Count, See, Hear, Collect Data
            • Report of Entry Findings
Entry Plan/
 Findings • Vet with stakeholders, including School Committee



            • Root cause analysis, SWOT
 Strategy
            • Vet with stakeholders, including School Committee


            • Integrate DIP, SIP, Educator Evaluation
            • Focus Leadership Team on Strategy Implementation
  Monitor
 Progress   • Work with stakeholders, including School Committee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Focus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Leadership Team on
                                                                                                                                                 With Leadership Team:




                                                                                                   SUPERINTENDENT’S REPORT OF ENTRY FINDINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          District Strategy
                                 Collect                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Implementation
                                “COUNT”
                                  “SEE”




                                                                                                                                                                         Strategic Objectives with Strategic Initiatives for each
SUPERINTENDENT’S ENTRY PLAN




                                    &




                                                           Vet Draft Report with Leadership Team




                                                                                                                                                                         Develop Proposed Strategy: Theory of action, 3-5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DISTRICT’S VISION ACHIEVED
                                 “HEAR”
                                  Data            Use                                                                                          Develop




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DISTRICT STRATEGY
                                                Findings                                                                                        SWOT                                                                                                       Align District &
                                                   to                                                                                                                                                                                                   School Improvement
                                                Identify                                                                                                                                                                                                 Planning, Budget,
                                                Patterns                                                                                                                                                                                                Educator Evaluation
                                                   &                                                                                                                                                                                                        & other key
                                                Themes                                                                                                                                                                                                     processes with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          District Strategy
                                     With                                                                                                       Identify
                                 Leadership                                                                                                       Root
                                    Team,                                                                                                        Causes
                                inventory &
                                 Categorize
                                   Current                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Monitor
                                  Initiatives                                                                                                                                                                                                             Progress, Learn,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Refine Strategic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Initiatives and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Plans



                                                                                                                                                   Engage Stakeholders,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Engage Stakeholders
                              Engage Stakeholders                                                                                               especially School Committee


   Typical Timeframe:
   July-August                                      September - January                                                                                       February - June                                                                                         July - on-going
What are areas of strength?
What are the areas of concern?
Are there unmet needs?
What future trends have we identified?
What are the root causes of issues?

What should we keep doing?
What needs to change/improve?
Mission and Vision
Theory of Action
Determine Overarching Goals
  ➢3-5 goals
  ➢3-5 year view
  ➢Integrated
Create Action Plan
       GOALS


     OBJECTIVES



STRATEGIES
✓ What does the data tell us?

✓ Did we do what we said
  we would do?

✓ Did we get the outcomes
  we were looking for?
Know What You’re Measuring

Outputs               Outcomes
• Tasks               • Targets
• Did we do what we   • Did we get the
  said we would do?     outcomes we
                        wanted?
                      • Impact Outputs have
                        on behavior, skill,
                        knowledge
School Committee                Shared          Superintendent

• Ensure community       • Gather & synthsize   •   Root cause analysis
  voice                    data                 •   Recommend actions
• Articulate mission &   • Data analysis        •   Implement plan
  vision                 • Monitor progress     •   Adjust plan as
• Approve plan                                      necessary
• Provide resources
• Evaluate progress
Governance           Management               Governance

Provide direction:   Put plans in place to:   Monitor
                                              accomplishment of
Mission              Accomplish goals         goals & effectiveness
                     Implement policy         of policy by:
Vision
                     Monitor systems &        Evaluate
Review goals         procedures               superintendent
                                              performance
Policy               Adjust to achieve
                     desired results          Assess district results
                                                                               Office of the Superintendent
                                                                               Dr. John J. Buckey
                                                                               9 Widger Road,
               MARBLEHEAD                                                      Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                               phone: 781.639.3140 x16
               PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                                  fax: 781.639.3149




As the new superintendent I will ensure that Marblehead Public Schools will be run smoothly, efficiently and
professionally. I will operate transparently and engage in effective collaboration and responsive
communication with all stakeholders. I will provide timely, accurate data to support financial decision-making
and help envision the district's future and long-range planning in partnership with other town officials.
Through these actions I will create broad support for a high-quality education system, which is our
community's most valuable
asset.

As a new superintendent in Massachusetts I will be participating in the three-year New Superintendent
Induction Program launched in 2010 by the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE)
and Massachusetts Association School Superintendents (MASS) in collaboration with Massachusetts
Association of School Committees. The induction program will support me in my new role to be an effective
instructional leader, build strong relationships with the school committee and the union, and develop high-
functioning leadership teams of district administrators and principals. In this program, I will be supported to
spend a considerable portion of the first year working with key stakeholders—including, of course, the school
committee—to examine district needs and develop a coherent, widely understood strategy and goals for
addressing them.

Professional Practice Goals

GOAL: During the 2020-2021 school year, I will be beginning my participation in the three-year New
Superintendent Induction Program launched in 2010 by the Department of Elementary and Secondary
Education (DESE) and Massachusetts Association School Superintendents (MASS) in collaboration with
Massachusetts Association of School Committees. The induction program will support me in my new role to
be an effective instructional leader, build strong relationships with the school committee and the union, and
develop high-functioning leadership teams of district administrators and principals. In this program, I will be
supported to spend a considerable portion of the first year working with key stakeholders—including, of
course, the school committee—to examine district needs and develop a coherent, widely understood
strategy and goals for addressing them. As a result of NISIP, I will develop skills in strategy development,
data analysis, budget, technology and instructional leadership.

Key Actions
1. Attend all scheduled induction and mentoring sessions.
2. Complete all assignments.
3. Consult with my assigned coach at least monthly.
4. Present a written Entry Plan to the school committee, including (a) types of evidence to be analyzed, (b)
stakeholders interviewed, (c) methods for assessing instructional practice,
(d) synthesizes evidence collected, (e) identifies strengths of the system and the most critical areas for
improvement that require further inquiry, and (f) identifies next steps for study.
5. Propose key strategies to improve student learning and other district systems of support.
                                                                                  Office of the Superintendent
                                                                                  Dr. John J. Buckey
                                                                                  9 Widger Road,
                MARBLEHEAD                                                        Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                                  phone: 781.639.3140 x16
                PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                                    fax: 781.639.3149


GOAL: Beginning in the summer of 2020 and throughout the school year, we will work together as MPS
administrators and school-based administrators to work as one unit taking into consideration and
understanding the district needs from a K-12 perspective. Collaboratively, we will build a strong leadership
team.

Key Actions
1. During the summer of 2020, facilitate a two-day retreat and focus on our work as a Team. As part of this
retreat, I will assist us in identifying key factors that will move us in the direction of a highly functional team.
2. Throughout the year, meet on a regular basis in which we will continue the work of the fall with a focus of
creating a district-wide vision and strategic plan.
3. Throughout the year, base our leadership work in research and share common reads on leadership
themes to inform our practice and to create a professionalism of continuous learning.
4. All administrators (central office and building-based) engage in activities, including classroom visits,
throughout the district in order to learn from one another and to enhance vertical appreciation of student
learning.


Student Learning Goal

GOAL: Throughout the 2020-2021 I will support effective instructional practice by engaging in regularly
scheduled school visits where I will observe classrooms with principals so that we can support and better
align the evaluation process to help ensure teachers have the tools and resources to provide students with
the highest quality of instruction.

Key Actions
1. Provide professional development to the Leadership Team including shared research based reads to
more clearly define what effective teaching and learning is with the goal being to better meet the needs of all
students.
2. Provide time in weekly Leadership Team meetings to share teacher observations in order to calibrate and
develop a shared understanding of effective teaching.
3. During monthly school visits, observe classrooms with building principals and share conclusions about the
level of practice observed for calibration of effective instructional practices.

District Improvement Goal:

GOAL: During the 2020-2021 school year, I will implement programs and work with the leadership team to
institute instructional practices that recognize and support the needs of students and families in an
increasingly diverse system.

Key Actions:
1. Provide leadership and teacher training on navigating conversations about culturally-sensitive topics
including topics of race.
2. Offer a parent education series on talking with children about race.
3. Ensure we are translating district documents into the languages that reflect the primary languages spoken
by our families.
                                                                        Office of the Superintendent
                                                                        Dr. John J. Buckey
                                                                        9 Widger Road,
              MARBLEHEAD                                                Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                        phone: 781.639.3140 x16
              PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                            fax: 781.639.3149


4. Expand our efforts to recruit, hire, and support a diverse staff.
5. Work to develop, expand and improve programming with METCO students, families and host-families,
teachers, staff and administrators.
 End-of-Cycle Summative Evaluation Report: Superintendent

    Superintendent:

              Evaluator:
                                                              Name                                                        Signature                                                          Date

Step 1: Assess Progress Toward Goals (Reference performance goals; check one for each set of goal[s].)

           Professional Practice Goal(s)                               Did Not Meet               Some Progress                   Significant Progress                           Met                    Exceeded

           Student Learning Goal(s)                                    Did Not Meet               Some Progress                   Significant Progress                           Met                    Exceeded

           District Improvement Goal(s)                                Did Not Meet               Some Progress                   Significant Progress                           Met                    Exceeded




Step 2: Assess Performance on Standards (Reference Performance Ratings per Standard; check one box for each Standard.)

 Unsatisfactory = Performance on a standard or overall has not significantly improved following a rating of Needs Improvement, or performance is consistently
 below the requirements of a standard or overall and is considered inadequate, or both.




                                                                                                                                                                Unsatisfactory




                                                                                                                                                                                                     Proficient
                                                                                                                                                                                       Improvement
 Needs Improvement/Developing = Performance on a standard or overall is below the requirements of a standard or overall but is not considered to be




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Exemplary
 Unsatisfactory at the time. Improvement is necessary and expected.
 Proficient = Proficient practice is understood to be fully satisfactory. This is the rigorous expected level of performance.




                                                                                                                                                                                       Needs
 Exemplary = A rating of Exemplary indicates that practice significantly exceeds Proficient and could serve as a model of practice regionally or statewide.


           Standard I: Instructional Leadership

           Standard II: Management and Operations

           Standard III: Family and Community Engagement

           Standard IV: Professional Culture




End-of-Cycle Summative Evaluation Report: Superintendent                                 2019                                                                   Page 1 of 7
 End-of-Cycle Summative Evaluation Report: Superintendent

Step 3: Rate Overall Summative Performance (Based on Step 1 and Step 2 ratings; check one.)

            Unsatisfactory                      Needs Improvement                             Proficient                            Exemplary


Step 4: Add Evaluator Comments
Comments and analysis are recommended for any rating but are required for an overall summative rating of Exemplary, Needs Improvement or Unsatisfactory.
 Comments:




End-of-Cycle Summative Evaluation Report: Superintendent            2019                                                     Page 2 of 7
  Superintendent’s Performance Goals

Superintendents must identify at least one student learning goal, one professional practice goal, and two to four district




                                                                                                                                      Did Not Meet




                                                                                                                                                                   Significant
improvement goals. Goals should be SMART and aligned to at least one focus Indicator from the Standards for Effective




                                                                                                                                                                                       Exceeded
                                                                                                                                                        Progress


                                                                                                                                                                   Progress
Administrative Leadership.




                                                                                                                                                        Some




                                                                                                                                                                                 Met
          Goals                Focus Indicator(s)                                  Description


Student Learning Goal


Professional Practice
Goal


District Improvement
Goal 1


District Improvement
Goal 2


District Improvement
Goal 3


District Improvement
Goal 4


                                                    Standards and Indicators for Effective Administrative Leadership
                                          Superintendents should identify 1-2 focus Indicators per Standard aligned to their goals.
         I. Instructional Leadership                II. Management & Operations            III. Family & Community Engagement                           IV. Professional Culture
I-A. Curriculum                            II-A. Environment                           III-A. Engagement                          IV-A. Commitment to High Standards
I-B. Instruction                           II-B. HR Management and Development         III-B. Sharing Responsibility              IV-B. Cultural Proficiency
I-C. Assessment                            II-C. Scheduling & Management Information   III-C. Communication                       IV-C. Communication
I-D. Evaluation                            Systems                                     III-D. Family Concerns                     IV-D. Continuous Learning
I-E. Data-Informed Decisionmaking          II-D. Law, Ethics and Policies                                                         IV-E. Shared Vision
I-F. Student Learning                      II-E. Fiscal Systems                                                                   IV-F. Managing Conflict




    End-of-Cycle Summative Evaluation Report: Superintendent                2019                                                                     Page 3 of 7
Superintendent’s Performance Rating for Standard I: Instructional Leadership
  Rate each focus Indicator and indicate the overall Standard rating below. (*Focus Indicators are those aligned to
  superintendent goal(s).)
                                                                                                                                                     U             NI             P               E

  I-A.   Curriculum: Ensures that all instructional staff design effective and rigorous standards-based units of instruction consisting of
         well-structured lessons with measureable outcomes.
          Focus Indicator (check if yes)

  I-B.   Instruction: Ensures that practices in all settings reflect high expectations regarding content and quality of effort and work,
         engage all students, and are personalized to accommodate diverse learning styles, needs, interests, and levels of readiness.
          Focus Indicator (check if yes)

  I-C.   Assessment: Ensures that all principals and administrators facilitate practices that propel personnel to use a variety of formal and
         informal methods and assessments to measure student learning, growth, and understanding and make necessary adjustments to
         their practice when students are not learning.
          Focus Indicator (check if yes)

  I-D.   Evaluation: Ensures effective and timely supervision and evaluation of all staff in alignment with state regulations and contract
         provisions.
          Focus Indicator (check if yes)

  I-E.   Data-Informed Decision Making: Uses multiple sources of evidence related to student learning—including state, district, and
         school assessment results and growth data—to inform school and district goals and improve organizational performance,
         educator effectiveness, and student learning.
          Focus Indicator (check if yes)

  I-F.   Student Learning: Demonstrates expected impact on student learning based on multiple measures of student learning, growth,             The Student Learning Indicator does not have corresponding
                                                                                                                                                   descriptions of practice. Evidence of impact on student
         and achievement, including student progress on common assessments and statewide student growth measures where available.                 learning based on multiple measures of student learning,
          Focus Indicator (check if yes)                                                                                                        growth, and achievement must be taken into account when
                                                                                                                                                     determining a performance rating for this Standard.


  OVERALL Rating for Standard I: Instructional Leadership
  The education leader promotes the learning and growth of all students and the success of all staff by cultivating a shared vision that
  makes powerful teaching and learning the central focus of schooling.

  Comments and analysis (recommended for any overall rating; required for overall rating of Exemplary, Needs Improvement or Unsatisfactory):




  End-of-Cycle Summative Evaluation Report: Superintendent                        2019                                                                   Page 4 of 7
  Superintendent’s Performance Rating for Standard II: Management & Operations
Rate each focus Indicator and indicate the overall Standard rating below. (*Focus Indicators are those aligned to
superintendent goal(s).)
                                                                                                                                        U         NI      P   E

II-A. Environment: Develops and executes effective plans, procedures, routines, and operational systems to address a full range of
      safety, health, emotional, and social needs.
       Focus Indicator (check if yes)

II-B. Human Resources Management and Development: Implements a cohesive approach to recruiting, hiring, induction,
      development, and career growth that promotes high-quality and effective practice.
       Focus Indicator (check if yes)

II-C. Scheduling and Management Information Systems: Uses systems to ensure optimal use of data and time for teaching,
      learning, and collaboration, minimizing disruptions and distractions for school-level staff.
       Focus Indicator (check if yes)

II-D. Law, Ethics, and Policies: Understands and complies with state and federal laws and mandates, school committee policies,
      collective bargaining agreements, and ethical guidelines.
       Focus Indicator (check if yes)

II-E. Fiscal Systems: Develops a budget that supports the district’s vision, mission, and goals; allocates and manages expenditures
      consistent with district- and school-level goals and available resources.
       Focus Indicator (check if yes)

OVERALL Rating for Standard II: Management & Operations
The education leader promotes the learning and growth of all students and the success of all staff by ensuring a safe, efficient, and
effective learning environment, using resources to implement appropriate curriculum, staffing, and scheduling.

Comments and analysis (recommended for any overall rating; required for overall rating of Exemplary, Needs Improvement or Unsatisfactory):




End-of-Cycle Summative Evaluation Report: Superintendent                       2019                                                         Page 5 of 7
 Superintendent’s Performance Rating for Standard III: Family and Community
 Engagement
Rate each focus Indicator and indicate the overall Standard rating below. (*Focus Indicators are those aligned to
superintendent goal(s).)
                                                                                                                                         U         NI      P   E

III-A. Engagement: Actively ensures that all families are welcome members of the classroom and school community and can contribute
       to the effectiveness of the classroom, school, district, and community.
      Focus Indicator (check if yes)

III-B. Sharing Responsibility: Continuously collaborates with families and community stakeholders to support student learning and
       development at home, school, and in the community.
      Focus Indicator (check if yes)

III-C. Communication: Engages in regular, two-way, culturally proficient communication with families and community stakeholders
       about student learning and performance.
      Focus Indicator (check if yes)

III-D. Family Concerns: Addresses family and community concerns in an equitable, effective, and efficient manner.
      Focus Indicator (check if yes)

OVERALL Rating for Standard III: Family & Community Engagement
The education leader promotes the learning and growth of all students and the success of all staff through effective partnerships with
families, community organizations, and other stakeholders that support the mission of the district and its schools.
Comments and analysis (recommended for any overall rating; required for overall rating of Exemplary, Needs Improvement or Unsatisfactory):




End-of-Cycle Summative Evaluation Report: Superintendent                       2019                                                          Page 6 of 7
 Superintendent’s Performance Rating for Standard IV: Professional Culture
Rate each focus Indicator and indicate the overall Standard rating below. (*Focus Indicators are those aligned to
superintendent goal(s).)
                                                                                                                                            U         NI      P   E

IV-A. Commitment to High Standards: Fosters a shared commitment to high standards of service, teaching, and learning with high
      expectations for achievement for all.
     Focus Indicator (check if yes)

IV-B. Cultural Proficiency: Ensures that policies and practices enable staff members and students to interact effectively in a culturally
      diverse environment in which students’ backgrounds, identities, strengths, and challenges are respected.
     Focus Indicator (check if yes)

IV-C. Communication: Demonstrates strong interpersonal, written, and verbal communication skills.
     Focus Indicator (check if yes)

IV-D. Continuous Learning: Develops and nurtures a culture in which staff members are reflective about their practice and use student
      data, current research, best practices, and theory to continuously adapt practice and achieve improved results. Models these
      behaviors in his or her own practice.
     Focus Indicator (check if yes)

IV-E. Shared Vision: Successfully and continuously engages all stakeholders in the creation of a shared educational vision in which
      every student is prepared to succeed in postsecondary education and become a responsible citizen and global contributor.
     Focus Indicator (check if yes)

IV-F. Managing Conflict: Employs strategies for responding to disagreement and dissent, constructively resolving conflict and building
      consensus throughout a district or school community.
     Focus Indicator (check if yes)

OVERALL Rating for Standard IV: Professional Culture
The education leader promotes the learning and growth of all students and the success of all staff by nurturing and sustaining a
districtwide culture of reflective practice, high expectations, and continuous learning for staff.
Comments and analysis (recommended for any overall rating; required for overall rating of Exemplary, Needs Improvement or Unsatisfactory):




End-of-Cycle Summative Evaluation Report: Superintendent                       2019                                                             Page 7 of 7
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendent Evaluation
    The Indicator Rubric for Superintendent Evaluation is an evaluation tool intended to support a shared understanding of effective leadership
                                       practice between a superintendent and school committee members.

Designed around the 21 Indicators from the Standards of Effective Administrative Leadership (603 CMR 35.04), the Indicator Rubric includes
descriptions of a superintendent’s practice for each Indicator and articulates the specific responsibilities that a school committee may be expected
to reasonably evaluate. This is a significant departure from the more detailed, element-level rubrics associated with other educator roles in the
model system for educator evaluation.
While this structural difference results in a shorter, less complex evaluation tool, it does not simplify the responsibilities of a superintendent. All 21
Indicators associated with the four Standards of Effective Administrative Leadership remain in place, and the superintendent is still expected to
meet expectations associated with each Standard, typically assessed by focusing on one to two Indicators per Standard each year. Describing
practice at the Indicator level rather than at the element level acknowledges the following unique components of an educator evaluation process
conducted by a school committee:
     The Role of the School Committee: The school committee’s role is governance, rather than management. A school committee thereby
       focuses on the what and the why (governance) of superintendent leadership, rather than the how (management). The Indicator Rubric does
       the same.
     The Composition of a School Committee: The school committee as “evaluator” is comprised of multiple individuals, rather than a single
       evaluator. This demands consensus building, a process made exponentially easier when focused around fewer descriptors of practice.
     The Focus of a School Committee: School committee members, many of whom are often non-educators, focus primarily on the outcome of
       a superintendent’s work, rather than the details of implementation. The Indicator Rubric guides committee members to maintain this focus.
     A Public Process. The superintendent’s evaluation is the only educator evaluation conducted in public. The Indicator Rubric includes the
       practices to which a committee can reasonably be expected to have access or insight, such that the public process of collecting and
       evaluating evidence may be conducted with transparency and integrity.

The 2019-2020 Rubric Pilot. DESE is supporting a year-long pilot of the draft Indicator Rubric to evaluate its use and impact on the superintendent
evaluation process. The objectives of the pilot include:
    Assess the implementation of the rubric by superintendents and school committees. Is it accessible and relevant to all involved?
    Assess the impact of the rubric. Does it promote a comprehensive evaluation of superintendent practice? Does it support consistency and
     transparency in aspects of the evaluation process, including analyzing evidence, providing feedback, and using professional judgment to
     determine ratings?
DESE will collect input from pilot districts through a qualitative survey and interview process. For more information on participating as a pilot
district, please contact Claire Abbott at cabbott@doe.mass.edu.
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents



                                                              STANDARD I: Instructional Leadership
  The education leader promotes the learning and growth of all students and the success of all staff by cultivating a shared
                     vision that makes powerful teaching and learning the central focus of schooling.


                                  Unsatisfactory                     Needs Improvement                             Proficient                              Exemplary
                        Does not ensure the                    Ensures that most instructional       Monitors and assesses progress           Empowers administrators to
                        implementation of standards-           staff implement standards-based       across all schools and content areas     ensure all instructional staff
                        based units of instruction across      units of instruction consisting of    to ensure that all instructional staff   collaboratively plan, adapt as
                        the district (e.g. fails to provide    well-structured lessons, but          implement effective and rigorous         needed, and implement
                        adequate resources or training).       curricula in some schools or          standards-based units of instruction     standards-based units comprised
                                                               content areas lack appropriate        consisting of well-structured lessons    of well-structured lessons aligned
 I-A: Curriculum
                                                               rigor or alignment to state           with measurable outcomes.                to state standards and local
                                                               standards.                                                                     curricula. Continually monitors
                                                                                                                                              and assesses progress, and
                                                                                                                                              provides additional supports as
                                                                                                                                              needed. Models this practice for
                                                                                                                                              others.
                        Does not ensure that                   Supports instructional practices      Monitors and supports principals         Sets high expectations for the
                        instructional practices across         in some schools or content areas      and instructional staff through          content and quality of instruction
                        schools and content areas reflect      that reflect high expectations,       observations and feedback to ensure      and empowers all administrators
                        high expectations for teaching         engage all students, and are          that instructional practices in all      to do the same, such that
                        and learning, are engaging and         personalized to accommodate           settings reflect high expectations       instructional practices throughout
                        motivating, or meet the diverse        diverse learning styles, needs,       regarding content and quality of         the district are engaging, inclusive,
                        learning of all students; or           interests, and levels of readiness;   effort and work, engage all              and personalized to accommodate
 I-B: Instruction       establishes inappropriately low        but allows lower expectations         students, and are personalized to        diverse learning needs of all
                        expectations for teaching and          and/or insufficiently engaging        accommodate diverse learning             students. Stays informed of new,
                        learning.                              instruction to persist in parts of    styles, needs, interests, and levels     evidenced-based instructional
                                                               the district.                         of readiness.                            practices and provides resources
                                                                                                                                              and supports to implement them
                                                                                                                                              as needed. Monitors principals
                                                                                                                                              and instructional staff in support
                                                                                                                                              of these practices through
                                                                                                                                              observations and feedback.




                                                                                                                                                                                      1
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents



                                 Unsatisfactory                   Needs Improvement                           Proficient                             Exemplary
                        Does not set expectations around    Encourages most principals and       Monitors and supports principals        Empowers teams of administrators
                        or ensure the use of a variety of   administrators to facilitate         and instructional staff through         and instructional staff to use a
                        formal and informal assessment      practices that propel personnel      observations and feedback to ensure     comprehensive system of informal
                        methods throughout the district.    to use a variety of formal and       that all principals and                 and formal assessment methods
                                                            informal methods and                 administrators facilitate practices     to measure each student’s
                                                            assessments to measures student      that propel personnel to use a          learning, growth, and progress
                                                            learning, growth, and                variety of formal and informal          toward achieving state/local
                                                            understanding, but assessment        methods and assessments to              standards, and to use findings to
 I-C: Assessment                                            use and analysis is inconsistent     measure student learning, growth,       adjust instructional practice and
                                                            throughout the district.             and understanding and make              implement appropriate
                                                                                                 necessary adjustments to their          interventions and enhancements
                                                                                                 practice when students are not          for students. Ensures alignment of
                                                                                                 learning.                               assessments to content and grade
                                                                                                                                         level standards, and monitors
                                                                                                                                         administrators’ efforts and
                                                                                                                                         successes in this area. Models this
                                                                                                                                         practice for others.
                        Does not supervise and evaluate     Supervises and evaluates             Provides effective and timely           Provides effective and timely
                        administrators in alignment with    administrators in alignment with     supervision and evaluation of all       supervision and evaluation of all
                        state regulations or contract       state regulations and contract       staff in alignment with state           staff in alignment with state
                        provisions, such that:              provisions, but:                     regulations and contract provisions,    regulations and contract
                          Administrators’ goals are         Some administrator goals may       as evidenced by:                        provisions, as evidenced by:
                            neither SMART nor aligned to       not be SMART or aligned to          Support to all administrators in       Support to all administrators to
                            school and/or district goals,      school and district priorities;      developing SMART goals aligned          develop and attain SMART
                            and/or                             and/or                               to school and district priorities,      goals aligned to school and
                          Administrators rarely provide     Observations of and feedback         Guidance, support and                   district priorities, and sharing
                            quality supervision and            to staff by other                    monitoring for all administrators       best practices and success with
                            evaluation to other staff;         administrators is inconsistent       to ensure they observe and              the district community;
   I-D: Evaluation          and/or                             or nonspecific; and/or               provide useful feedback to faculty     Guidance, support and
                          Administrators are rarely, if     Observations of and feedback          and staff, and                          monitoring for all
                            ever, observed and provided        to administrators by the            Frequent observations of and            administrators to ensure they
                            with feedback on their own         superintendent are                   feedback to administrators on           observe and provide useful
                            leadership practice.               inconsistent or nonspecific.         effective leadership practice.          feedback to faculty and staff;
                                                                                                                                           Frequent observations of and
                                                                                                                                            feedback to administrators on
                                                                                                                                            effective leadership practice.
                                                                                                                                          Models this process through the
                                                                                                                                          superintendent’s own evaluation
                                                                                                                                          process and goals.


                                                                                                                                                                           2
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents



                                  Unsatisfactory                   Needs Improvement                            Proficient                            Exemplary
                         Gathers limited information on      Identifies multiple sources of        Uses multiple sources of evidence       Leads administrator teams in
                         district strengths and weaknesses   evidence related to student           related to student learning,            identifying and using multiple
                         and writes district and annual      learning to assess the district’s     including state, district, and school   sources of evidence including
                         action plans that lack data-        strengths and areas for               assessment results and growth           state, district, and school
                         informed goals.                     improvement, but these data are       data, to inform district goals and      assessment results and growth
                                                             not comprehensive and/or              improve organizational                  data, educator evaluation data,
                                                             analysis is insufficient, such that   performance, educator                   district culture and climate
                                                             district and annual action plans      effectiveness, and student learning.    information, to assess and
                                                             lack focused or measurable goals.     Regularly monitors and shares           communicate the district’s
                                                                                                   progress with the community.            strengths and areas for
 I-E: Data-Informed
                                                                                                   Supports principals to align school     improvement. Involves
 Decision Making
                                                                                                   improvement goals to district plans     stakeholders in the creation of
                                                                                                   and goals.                              district improvement and annual
                                                                                                                                           action plans comprised of
                                                                                                                                           measurable, results-oriented
                                                                                                                                           goals, and empowers principals to
                                                                                                                                           develop and implement similarly
                                                                                                                                           robust and aligned school plans
                                                                                                                                           and goals. Regularly monitors and
                                                                                                                                           shares progress with the
                                                                                                                                           community.

                         Demonstrates expected impact on student learning based on multiple measures of student learning, growth, and achievement, including
                         student progress on common assessments and statewide student growth measures where available.


 I-F: Student Learning   There are no associated performance descriptors for the Student Learning Indicator. For administrators, evidence of impact on student learning
                         based on multiple measures of student learning, growth, and achievement must be taken into account by the evaluator(s) when determining a
                         performance rating for Standard I. Evaluators and educators should identify the most appropriate assessments of student learning and anticipated
                         student learning gains associated with those measures when developing the Educator Plan. For superintendents and other district leaders, multiple
                         measures of student learning might include (but should not be limited to) statewide assessments, assessments from curricular materials used in
                         multiple schools, district-created common assessments, or others measures that provide information about student learning across the district.




                                                                                                                                                                               3
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents



                                                      STANDARD II: Management and Operations
     Promotes the learning and growth of all students and the success of all staff by ensuring a safe, efficient, and effective
            learning environment, using resources to implement appropriate curriculum, staffing, and scheduling.


                                     Unsatisfactory                 Needs Improvement                       Proficient                          Exemplary

                             Fails to establish plans,         Oversees plans, procedures,       Develops and executes effective      Empowers all administrators to
                             procedures, routines, and         routines, and operational         plans, procedures, routines, and     develop and execute effective
                             operational systems that          systems that address the          operational systems to address a     plans, procedures, routines,
                             address the safety, health,       safety, health, and emotional     full range of safety, health, and    and operational systems to
                             and emotional and social          and social needs of students,     emotional and social needs of        address a full range of safety,
                             needs of students throughout      but allows for variation in       students throughout the district,    health, and emotional and
                             the district, such that schools   implementation and/or quality     as evidenced by:                     social needs of all students
                             and other buildings are not       across the district, such that                                         throughout the district, as
                                                                                                    orderly and efficient student
                             generally clean, attractive,      not all students have equitable                                        evidenced by:
                                                                                                     entry, dismissal, meals, class
                             welcoming, or safe.               access to clean, safe, and
                                                                                                     transitions, assemblies, and        orderly and efficient
                                                               supportive learning
                                                                                                     recess;                              student entry, dismissal,
                                                               environments.
                                                                                                    school and district buildings        meals, class transitions,
                                                                                                     that are clean, attractive,          assemblies, and recess;
      II-A. Environment
                                                                                                     welcoming, and safe; and            school and district
                                                                                                    safe and supportive learning         buildings that are clean,
                                                                                                     environments for all                 attractive, welcoming, and
                                                                                                     students.                            safe; and
                                                                                                                                         safe and supportive
                                                                                                                                          learning environments for
                                                                                                                                          all students.
                                                                                                                                      Assesses efficacy using
                                                                                                                                      feedback from students, staff,
                                                                                                                                      and families, and other data
                                                                                                                                      sources, and makes
                                                                                                                                      adjustments as necessary.
                                                                                                                                      Models this practice for others.




                                                                                                                                                                         4
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents



                                      Unsatisfactory                 Needs Improvement                        Proficient                           Exemplary
                                                                                                   Monitors and supports the            Ensures a districtwide system
                              Does not implement any            Oversees processes for
                                                                                                   implementation of a cohesive         for recruiting, hiring, and
                              formal processes for the          recruitment, hiring, induction,
                                                                                                   approach to recruitment, hiring,     retaining an effective and
                              recruitment and hiring of         development, and career
                                                                                                   induction, development, and          diverse workforce of
                              faculty and staff, and/or fails   growth, but systems are
                                                                                                   career growth that promotes          administrators and educators
                              to provide sufficient             inadequately or inconsistently
                                                                                                   high-quality and effective           who share the district’s
                              induction, development, or        implemented throughout the
                                                                                                   practice, as evidenced by            mission and meet the learning
                              career growth supports to         district, and/or do not
                                                                                                   districtwide systems that            needs of all students, as
                              educators, as evidenced by an     consistently promote the
                                                                                                   support:                             evidenced by:
                              inability to reliably hire and    hiring, retention, and support
                              retain educators that meet        of a diverse, effective educator      Hiring and retaining a diverse      comprehensive induction
                              the learning needs of district    workforce.                             workforce;                           supports for all new
      II-B. Human Resources   students.                                                               Comprehensive induction              educators;
      Management &                                                                                     supports for new educators;         job-embedded
      Development                                                                                     Job-embedded professional            professional learning that
                                                                                                       development aligned with             (a) reinforces district
                                                                                                       district goals; and                  goals, (b) results in high-
                                                                                                      Distributed leadership               quality and effective
                                                                                                       opportunities to support             practice; and
                                                                                                       educator career growth.             formalized distributed
                                                                                                                                            leadership and career
                                                                                                                                            growth opportunities.
                                                                                                                                        Empowers all administrators to
                                                                                                                                        implement these systems
                                                                                                                                        consistently.

                              Does not implement systems        Encourages the use of              Uses systems to ensure optimal       Empowers administrators and
                              to ensure optimal use of time     scheduling and management          use of time for teaching,            teams to contribute to the
                              for teaching, learning, or        information systems that           learning, and collaboration, as      design and monitoring of
                              collaboration, such that          promote time for teaching and      evidenced by:                        district systems that maximize
                              instructional time is             learning, but does not monitor                                          access to quality instructional
      II-C. Scheduling and                                                                            school schedules that
                              inadequate and/or routinely       efficacy throughout the district                                        time for all students, and
      Management                                                                                       maximize student access to
                              disrupted, and administrators     and/or allows for frequent                                              minimize disruptions and
      Information Systems                                                                              quality instructional time and
                              have limited to no                schedule disruptions; provides                                          distractions for all school-level
                                                                                                       minimize school day
                              opportunities to collaborate      inadequate time for                                                     staff. Supports ongoing
                                                                                                       disruptions; and
                              around meaningful practice.       administrators to collaborate                                           administrator collaboration
                                                                                                      regular opportunities for
                                                                around leadership practice.                                             within and across schools.
                                                                                                       administrators to
                                                                                                       collaborate.



                                                                                                                                                                            5
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents



                                      Unsatisfactory                Needs Improvement                           Proficient                          Exemplary

                               Demonstrates lack of            May know state and federal           Understands and complies with         Provides the resources and
                               awareness or consistent non-    laws and mandates, school            state and federal laws and            support for all school
                               compliance with some or all     committee policies, and              mandates, school committee            personnel to understand and
      II-D. Laws, Ethics and   state and federal laws and      collective bargaining                policies, collective bargaining       comply with state and federal
      Policies                 mandates, school committee      agreements, but inconsistently       agreements, and ethical               laws and mandates, school
                               policies, or collective         complies with some laws or           guidelines, and provides the          committee policies, collective
                               bargaining agreements,          policies, and/or ethical             resources and support to ensure       bargaining agreements, and
                               and/or fails to adhere to       guidelines.                          district-wide compliance.             ethical guidelines. Models this
                               ethical guidelines.                                                                                        practice for others.

                               Develops a budget that does     Develops a budget that loosely       Develops a budget that supports       Leads the administrator team
                               not align with the district’s   aligns with the district’s vision,   the district’s vision, mission, and   to develop a district budget
                               goals or mismanages available   mission, and goals, and/or           goals; allocates and manages          aligned with the district’s
                               resources. Does not             inconsistently manages               expenditures consistent with          vision, mission, and goals that
                               communicate budget              expenditures and available           district/school-level goals and       addresses the needs of all
                               rationale or financial short    resources. Does not effectively      available resources; and              students. Allocates and
                               falls to staff, community       communicate budget rationale         effectively communicates budget       manages expenditures
                               members, municipal              to staff, community members,         rationale to staff, community         consistent with district/school-
      II-E. Fiscal Systems     stakeholders, or the school     municipal stakeholders, and          members, municipal                    level goals, and seeks alternate
                               committee.                      the school committee.                stakeholders, and the school          funding sources as needed.
                                                                                                    committee. Provides regular           Proactively communicates
                                                                                                    updates on implementation of          budget rationale to staff,
                                                                                                    the budget.                           community members,
                                                                                                                                          municipal stakeholders, and
                                                                                                                                          the school committee.
                                                                                                                                          Provides regular updates on
                                                                                                                                          implementation of the budget.




                                                                                                                                                                             6
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents



                                                     STANDARD III: Family and Community Engagement
    Promotes the learning and growth of all students and the success of all staff through effective partnerships with families,
             community organizations, and other stakeholders that support the mission of the school and district.


                                         Unsatisfactory                 Needs Improvement                          Proficient                              Exemplary

                                 Does little to welcome families   Invites families to participate    Promotes, monitors and supports         Ensures that all personnel to use
                                 as members of the district,       in the classroom and school        comprehensive, culturally               culturally responsive and
                                 classroom or school               community, but efforts are         responsive and collaborative            collaborative practices that engage
                                 community, or tolerates an        limited or insufficient, leading   engagement practices that welcome       all families to contribute to district,
                                 environment that is               to limited family involvement      and encourage every family to           classroom, school, and community
                                 unwelcoming to some families.     throughout the district.           actively participate in the classroom   effectiveness, including but not
                                                                                                      and school community, and engages       limited to families with limited
                                                                                                      community stakeholders to               access to technology, and families
 III-A. Engagement
                                                                                                      contribute to the classroom, school,    whose home language is not
                                                                                                      and community's effectiveness.          English. Actively engages
                                                                                                                                              stakeholders from all segments of
                                                                                                                                              the community, including residents,
                                                                                                                                              municipal officials, and business
                                                                                                                                              leaders, in furthering the mission of
                                                                                                                                              the school and the district. Models
                                                                                                                                              this practice for others.

                                 Does not ensure that              Encourages administrators to       Monitors adherence to district-wide     Empowers all administrators to
                                 administrators are identifying    work with families to address      policies and practices that promote     regularly collaborate with families
                                 student learning and              students struggling                continuous collaboration with           to address each student’s academic,
                                 development needs and             academically or behaviorally,      families to support student learning    social, emotional, and behavioral
                                 working with families to          but does not consistently          and development both at home and        needs, and to access as needed
                                 address them.                     monitor these activities to        at school, as evidenced by:             necessary services within and
                                                                   ensure that student needs are       the collaborative identification      outside of schools to address those
 III-B. Sharing Responsibility                                     being met, either within or             of each student’s academic,        needs. Monitors these processes to
                                                                   outside of schools.                     social, emotional, and             ensure all student needs are being
                                                                                                           behavioral needs; and              met. Models this practice for
                                                                                                       connecting families to the            others.
                                                                                                           necessary resources and
                                                                                                           services within the school and
                                                                                                           the community to meet
                                                                                                           students’ learning needs.


                                                                                                                                                                                        7
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents



                                    Unsatisfactory                  Needs Improvement                          Proficient                              Exemplary

                            Does not set clear expectations     May set expectations              Engages in regular, two-way,            Supports and empowers all
                            for or provide support to           regarding regular, two-way,       culturally proficient communication     administrators to engage in regular,
                            administrators regarding            culturally proficient             with families and community             two-way, culturally responsive
                            regular or culturally sensitive     communications with               stakeholders about student learning     communications with families
                            communication with families,        families, but allows occasional   and performance, that is provided in    about student learning and
                            and/or allows culturally            communications that are           multiple formats and reflects           performance. District-wide
 III-C. Communication       insensitive, inappropriate, or      culturally insensitive to some    understanding of and respect for        communications with families are
                            disrespectful communications        families’ home language,          different families’ home languages,     provided in multiple formats and
                            with families to occur. District    culture, and values. District     culture, and values.                    respect and affirm different
                            communication regarding             communication primarily                                                   families’ home languages, culture,
                            student learning and                occurs through school                                                     and values.
                            performance occurs primarily        newsletters and other one-
                            through school report cards.        way media.

                            Does not address most family        Ensures that most family          Addresses family concerns in an         Ensures that all family concerns are
                            concerns in a timely or             concerns are addressed as         equitable, effective, and efficient     addressed in a timely and effective
                            effective manner, fails to          they arise, but responsiveness    manner, and supports                    manner throughout the district;
                            provide systems or supports         is inconsistent across the        administrators to seek equitable        empowers administrators to
                            for administrators to do the        district. Supports                resolutions to both academic and        proactively respond as academic or
                            same, and/or allows responses       administrators to reach           non-academic concerns that (a)          non-academic concerns arise; and
 III-D. Family Concerns                                                                           reflect relevant information from all
                            to be inconsistent or               solutions to family concerns,                                             promotes collaborative problem
                            insufficient. Resolutions are       but may not ensure equitable      parties including families, faculty,    solving processes informed by
                            often not in the best interest of   resolutions that are in the       and staff, and (b) are in the best      relevant input from all families,
                            students.                           best interest of students.        interest of students.                   faculty, and staff that result in
                                                                                                                                          equitable solutions that are in the
                                                                                                                                          best interest of students. Models
                                                                                                                                          this practice for others.




                                                                                                                                                                                 8
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents



                                                          STANDARD IV: Professional Culture
  Promotes success for all students by nurturing and sustaining a school culture of reflective practice, high expectations, and
                                                 continuous learning for staff.


                               Unsatisfactory                  Needs Improvement                             Proficient                            Exemplary

                       Does not encourage high           May articulate high standards for      Fosters a shared commitment to high     Established a district-wide
                       standards of teaching and         teaching and learning, but             standards of teaching and learning      commitment to high standards of
                       learning or high expectations     expectations are inconsistently        with high expectations for              teaching and learning with high
                       for achievement among             applied throughout the district, as    achievement for all, including:         expectations for achievement for
                       administrators, as evidenced      evidenced by:                          1. Mission and core values:             all, including:
                       by:                               1.   Mission and core values are          Develops, promotes, and secures      1.   Mission and core values:
                        1.   a failure to develop or          present but may not reflect          staff commitment to core values           Collaborates with educators
                             articulate the district’s        district-wide buy-in, or are         that guide the development of a           and community members to
                             mission or core values;          rarely used to inform decision-      succinct, results-oriented mission        develop, secure and/or
                             and                              making.                              statement and ongoing decision-           promote core values and an
                        2.   an inability or             2.   Meetings: Leads administrator        making.                                   aligned mission, and to use
 IV-A. Commitment to
                             unwillingness to lead            leadership meetings that          2. Meetings: Plans and leads well-           them to guide decision
 High Standards
                             administrator leadership         address matters of                   run and engaging meetings that            making.
                             meetings that inform             consequence but may not              have clear purpose, focus on         2.   Meetings: Empowers
                             school and district              result in meaningful decision-       matters of consequence, and               administrators to share
                             matters.                         making.                              engage participants in a                  responsibility for leading
                                                                                                   thoughtful and productive series          team meetings that address
                                                                                                   of conversations and deliberations        important district matters,
                                                                                                   about important school matters.           and foster collaborative
                                                                                                                                             learning and problem-solving
                                                                                                                                             around instructional
                                                                                                                                             leadership issues.
                                                                                                                                        Models this practice for others.




                                                                                                                                                                            9
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents



                                Unsatisfactory                   Needs Improvement                             Proficient                             Exemplary

                        Develops and implements             Takes pride in having a diverse      Ensures that policies and practices       Leads stakeholders to develop and
                        culturally insensitive or           administration, faculty and/or       enable staff members and students         implement culturally responsive
                        inappropriate policies and          student body, but some policies      to interact effectively in a culturally   policies and practices that
                        practices, does not support         and practices are not culturally     diverse environment in which              acknowledge the diverse
                        administrators and staff in         responsive; and/or provides          students’ backgrounds, identities,        backgrounds, identities, strengths,
                        building cultural proficiency,      limited resources for                strengths, and challenges are             and challenges of administrators,
                        and/or fosters a culture that       administrators to support the        respected, as evidenced by the            students and staff. Empowers
 IV-B. Cultural
                        minimizes the importance of         development of culturally            sufficient provision of guidance,         administrators with time,
 Proficiency
                        individual differences.             responsive learning environments     supports, and resources to all schools    resources, and supports to build
                                                            and school culture that affirms      to promote culturally responsive          culturally responsive learning
                                                            individual differences.              learning environments and school          environments and collaborates
                                                                                                 cultures that affirm individual           with community members to
                                                                                                 differences of both students and staff.   create a culture that affirms
                                                                                                                                           individual differences. Models this
                                                                                                                                           practice for others.

                        Demonstrates ineffectual            Demonstrates adequate                Demonstrates strong interpersonal,        Utilizes and models strong
                        interpersonal, written, or verbal   interpersonal, written, and verbal   written, and verbal communication         context- and audience-specific
                        communication skills at times,      communication skills, but outreach   skills, as evidenced by regular and       interpersonal, written, and verbal
                        such that staff, families and       to staff, families and community     informative outreach to staff, families   communication skills. Actively
                        community members, and/or           members, and/or the school           and community members, and the            seeks and incorporates feedback
 IV-C. Communications
                        the school committee lack           committee may be inconsistent or     school committee in a manner that         into decision-making and in
                        accurate or sufficient              unclear.                             advances the work of the district.        communicating rationale for the
                        information.                                                             Regularly seeks and considers             decisions to staff, family,
                                                                                                 feedback in decision-making.              community members and school
                                                                                                                                           committee.




                                                                                                                                                                            10
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents



                                    Unsatisfactory                     Needs Improvement                              Proficient                               Exemplary

                            Accepts the practice of              Encourages administrators and          Develops and nurtures a culture in         Develops, nurtures, and models a
                            administrators working largely       teams to reflect on the                which staff members are reflective         culture in which all staff members
                            in isolation, without                effectiveness of instruction and       about their practice and use student       are reflective about their practice
                            consideration of data and best       student learning and use data and      data, current research, best practices     and use student data, current
                            practices. Does not reflect on       best practices to adapt practice,      and theory to continuously adapt           research, best practices and
                            leadership practice or               but does not monitor                   instruction and achieve improved           theory to continuously adapt
                            demonstrate new ways of              administrators in these practices      results, as evidenced by:                  instruction and achieve improved
                            thinking about administration        to ensure consistency or efficacy.                                                results, as evidenced by:
                                                                                                           Supporting regular opportunities
                            and leadership.                      Occasionally reflects on their own
                                                                                                            for administrators and teams to            Empowering all
                                                                 leadership practice.
    IV-D. Continuous                                                                                        reflect on and collaborate around           administrators to collaborate
    Learning                                                                                                the effectiveness of a wide range           and share knowledge and
                                                                                                            of practices related to instruction         skills of best practices that
                                                                                                            and student learning, and                   improve student learning
                                                                                                           Engaging in their own continuous            within their own buildings,
                                                                                                            learning to improve leadership              and
                                                                                                            practice.                                  Regularly reflecting on and
                                                                                                                                                        improving their own
                                                                                                        Models these behaviors in their own
                                                                                                                                                        leadership practice in order to
                                                                                                        practice.
                                                                                                                                                        develop new approaches to
                                                                                                                                                        improve overall district
                                                                                                                                                        effectiveness.

                            Does not engage stakeholders         Engages some administrators,           Continuously engages all                   Leads administrators, staff,
                            in the creation of or                staff, students, families, and         stakeholders in the creation of (or        students of all ages, families, and
                            commitment to a shared               community members in                   commitment to) a shared educational        community members to develop
                            educational vision, such that        developing and committing to a         vision focused on student preparation      and internalize a shared
                            the vision is not one in which all   shared educational vision focused      for college and career readiness, civic    educational vision around student
                            students will be prepared to         on student preparation for college     engagement, community                      preparation for college and
    IV-E. Shared Vision     succeed in postsecondary             and career readiness, civic            contributions, and responsible             careers, civic engagement,
                            education and become                 engagement, responsible                citizenship.1                              community contributions, and
                            responsible citizens and             citizenship, and community                                                        responsible citizenship. Ensures
                            community contributors.              contributions, but stakeholder                                                    alignment of school and district
                                                                 engagement is limited and/or the                                                  goals to this vision. Models this
                                                                 vision is unrepresentative of the                                                 practice for others.
                                                                 district community.


1
  The original Indicator language is modified in this rubric to reflect a more expansive definition of student success that is inclusive of college and career readiness. This definition
is reflected in the other model rubrics as well as Massachusetts policies and initiatives to improve outcomes for all students.
                                                                                                                                                                                      11
DRAFT Indicator Rubric for Superintendents



                               Unsatisfactory                   Needs Improvement                               Proficient                              Exemplary

                       Does not respond to                Responds respectfully to most           Employs strategies for responding to      Models a variety of strategies for
                       disagreement or dissent and/or     cases of disagreement and dissent,      disagreement and dissent,                 responding respectfully and
                       does not address conflict in a     but employs only a limited range        constructively resolving conflict, and    effectively to disagreement and
                       solutions-oriented or respectful   of strategies to resolve conflict and   building consensus throughout             dissent, and resolves conflicts in a
                       manner. Does not attempt or        build consensus within the district     district and school communities,          constructive manner such that all
                       fails to build consensus within    and school communities, with            while maintaining a commitment to         parties are able to move forward
                       the district and school            varying degrees of success.             decisions that are in the best interest   productively. Regularly strives to
 IV-F. Managing
                       communities.                                                               of all students.                          achieve consensus within the
 Conflict
                                                                                                                                            district and school communities,
                                                                                                                                            while maintaining a commitment
                                                                                                                                            to decisions that are in the best
                                                                                                                                            interest of all students. Empowers
                                                                                                                                            and supports administrators to
                                                                                                                                            use these approaches in their own
                                                                                                                                            leadership.




                                                                                                                                                                              12
