                                                                                                  File: JFABF

              EDUCATION OPPORTUNITIES FOR CHILDREN IN FOSTER CARE

The purpose of this policy is to ensure the educational stability of students in foster care and their equal
access to the same free and appropriate public education from preschool through high school
graduation as provided to other students as required by law. Educational stability has a lasting impact
on students' academic achievement and wellbeing, and the School Committee is committed to
supporting district and community efforts to ensure that students in foster care have access to high-
quality, stable educational experiences.

The law requires that foster care students continue to attend their school of origin, unless after a
collaborative decision-making process it is determined to be in the student's best interest to enroll in and
attend school in the district in which a foster care provider or facility is located (if different). The law
also requires that when it is not in the student's best interest to remain in the school of origin, the student
is immediately enrolled and attending in a new school district, even if records normally required for
enrollment cannot be quickly produced. Additionally, the requires the Department of Children and
Families (DCF), The Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE), and the school
district to designate points of contact; and also that the district collaborate with DCF to ensure that
students will receive transportation to the school of origin if needed.

Best Interest Determination
Decisions about whether a student in foster care should continue to attend the school of origin should be
made collaboratively by DCF, the student (as appropriate), the student's family and/or foster family (and
if different, the person authorized to make educational decisions on behalf of the student), the school and
district of origin, and (when different) the local district where the student is placed. Best interest
determinations should focus on the needs of each individual student and take into account a variety of
factors. Every effort should be made to reach agreement regarding the appropriate school placement of a
student in foster care. However, if there is disagreement regarding school placement for a student in
foster care, DCF will finalize the best interest determination.

The district can seek review of DCF's decision by utilizing a Foster Care School Selection Dispute
Resolution Process established by DESE and DCF. Decisions made through this process are not subject
to review. Under the law, to promote educational stability, students should continue to attend their
schools of origin while best interest determinations are being made.

Transportation
The district of origin must collaborate with DCF on how transportation will be provided and arranged to
ensure that students in foster care who need transportation to remain in their school of origin will receive
such transportation while they are in foster care.

                                                                                                         1 of 2




Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                                  File: JFABF
Transportation options may include using Title I funds, establishing regional collaborations among
districts, coordinating with existing routes for transportation, seeking help from foster parent(s), etc.
Absent other agreements between the district and DCF, the district of origin is responsible for providing
transportation to and from the school of origin.

Immediate Enrollment
If it is in the best interest of a student in foster care to leave the school of origin, the student must be
enrolled in school in the local school district immediately. To minimize disruption of the student's
education, the law requires the district to enroll the student in a new school right away, without waiting
to receive the typical student enrollment documentation (other than emergency contact information).
The enrolling school must immediately contact the child's school and district of origin to obtain the
relevant records and documentation, and the school and district of origin should immediately transfer
those records.

To facilitate enrollment, DCF representatives will present the district with a form that indicates that the
student is in foster care, along with their state-agency identification badge, when enrolling students.

LEGAL REFS: Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA);
Fostering Connections to Success and Increasing Adoptions Act of 2008 (Fostering Connections Act) 2



                                                                                                       of 2




Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                                  File: JFABD

               HOMELESS STUDENTS: ENROLLMENT RIGHTS AND SERVICES


To the extent practical and as required by law, the district will work with homeless students and their
families to provide stability in school attendance and other services. Special attention will be given to
ensuring the enrollment and attendance of homeless students not currently attending school. Homeless
students will be provided district services for which they are eligible, including: Head Start and
comparable pre-school programs, Title I similar state programs, special education programs, bilingual
education, vocational and technical education programs, gifted and talented programs, school nutrition
programs, extracurricular activities/programs and summer school offerings.

Homeless students are defined as lacking a fixed, regular and adequate nighttime residence, including:
1. Sharing the housing of other persons due to loss of housing or economic hardship;
2. Living in motels, hotels, trailer parks or camping grounds due to the lack of alternative
adequate accommodations;
3. Living in emergency or transitional shelters;
4. Being abandoned in hospitals;
5. Awaiting foster care placement; (NOW REMOVED)
6. Living in public or private places not designed for or ordinarily used as regular sleeping
accommodations for human beings;
7. Living in cars, parks, public spaces, abandoned buildings, substandard housing, transportation
stations or similar settings;
8. Migratory children living in conditions described in the previous examples.

The Superintendent shall designate an appropriate staff person to be the district's liaison for homeless
students and their families.

To the extent feasible, homeless students will continue to be enrolled in their school of origin, including
their designated receiving school while they remain homeless or until the end of the academic year in
which they obtain permanent housing. Instead of remaining in the school of origin, parents or guardians
of homeless students may request enrollment in the school in the attendance area in which the student is
actually living, or their designated receiving school district. Attendance rights by living in attendance
areas, other student assignment policies, or intra and inter-district choice options are available to
homeless families on the same terms as families residing in the district.

If there is an enrollment dispute, the student shall be immediately enrolled in the school in which
enrollment is sought, pending resolution of the dispute. The parent or guardian shall be informed of the
district's decision and their appeal rights in writing. The district's liaison will carry out dispute resolution
as provided by state rule. Unaccompanied youth will also be enrolled pending resolution of the dispute.

Once the enrollment decision is made, the school shall immediately enroll the student, pursuant to
district policies and enrollment will be provided through the end of the school year in which a student
becomes permanently housed. If the student does not have immediate access to immunization records,

                                                                                                          1 of 2



Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                               File: JFABD

the student shall be admitted under a personal exception. Students and families should be encouraged to
obtain current immunization records or immunizations as soon as possible, and the district liaison is
directed to assist. Records from the student's previous school shall be requested from the previous
school pursuant to district policies. Emergency contact information is required at the time of
enrollment consistent with district policies, including compliance with the state's address
confidentiality program when necessary. Confidential living arrangements will be protected as part of
the student record.

Homeless students are entitled to transportation to their school of origin or the school where they are to
be enrolled. If the school of origin is in a different district, or a homeless student is living in another
district but will attend his or her school of origin, the districts will coordinate the transportation
services necessary for the student, or will divide the costs equally. Transportation will be provided
and/or costs divided equally through the end of the school year in which the student is permanently
housed.

The district's liaison for homeless students and their families shall coordinate with local social service
agencies that provide services to homeless children and youths and their families; other school districts
on issues of transportation and records transfers; and state and local housing agencies responsible for
comprehensive housing affordability strategies. This coordination includes providing public notice of
the educational rights of homeless students in schools, family shelters and soup kitchens. The district's
liaison will also review and recommend amendments to district policies that may act as barriers to the
enrollment of homeless students.

SOURCE: MASC

   LEGAL REFS.: The McKinney-Vento Act and Title I, Part A, as Amended by the Every Student
                                 Succeeds Act of 2015


                                                                                                      2 of 2
Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                              File: IHBAA

                   OBSERVATIONS OF SPECIAL EDUCATION PROGRAMS


1. Parents' request to observe their child(ren), current program, or a potential placement must be made
    in writing at least five days in advance to the Director of Student Services or designee.

2. The Director of Student Services or designee shall contact the parent(s) for an initial scheduling
    conversation within five (5) days of receipt of the parents' request.

3. When a parent requests an observation of a special needs student or program, the Director of Student
   Services will seek approval from the building principal and appropriate level chairperson before it is
   processed. Such approval may only be withheld for those reasons outlined within law and DESE
   regulation.

4. The Director of Student Services or designee and Principal will work with the classroom teacher and
    the observer to set up the specifics of the observation (including, but not limited to, scheduling and
    placement of the observer in the classroom).

5. The number, frequency, and duration of observation periods will be determined on an individual
    student basis in accordance with law and regulation. The start and end time of observation periods
    and a schedule of observation periods will be stated in advance. In order to minimize classroom or
    student disruption, the length of individual observation periods may be limited.

6. If the observer is not the parent, the parent must provide a signed release for the individual to observe
     prior to the observation.

7. The number of observers at any one time may be limited.

8. The observer will be informed that he/she is not to interfere with the educational environment of the
    classroom. If his/her presence presents a problem, he/she will be asked to leave. This notice is
    particularly important, since the presence of parents can influence both the performance of their
    child(ren) and those of others.

9. The observer will be asked to submit his/her report of the observation in advance of any follow-up
    TEAM meeting.

10.The observer will be informed that he/she is there to evaluate the appropriateness of a specific
   educational program to meet the needs of an individual child. He/she is not there to evaluate a
   teacher's ability to perform his or her contractual job duties.

11.The observer will be instructed regarding the disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable
   information relating to other children. Staff must be mindful of removing materials which may be
   part of students' records from plain view. In the event that removal is not possible the observer may
   be asked to sign a non-disclosure agreement.
                                                                                                   1 of 2
Marblehead Public Schools Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                              File: IHBAA
12.The Director of Student Services or designee, will accompany the observer at all times and take
   notes as to what is observed, paying particular attention to note anything that is non-typical
   concerning the period. This observation summary will be placed in the student's file and provided to
   the parent(s) prior to any follow-up TEAM meeting.


LEGAL REFS: MGL 71B:3
                 Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education Technical
                   Assistance Advisory SPED 2009-2 dated January 8, 2009

CROSS REF.: KI, Visitors to Schools

SOURCE: MASC/Marblehead


NOTE: The following quotes from the DESE Advisory are important points of understanding to the
implementation of this policy.
"School districts and parents have reported that, typically, observations are between one and four hours.
While useful as a general rule, the Department recommends that district policies and practices specify
that the duration and extent of observations will be determined on an individual basis. Districts should
avoid rigid adherence to defined time limits regardless of the student's needs and settings to be observed.
The complexities of the student's needs, as well as the program or programs to be observed, should
determine what the observation will entail and what amount of time is needed to complete it. Discussion
between school staff and the parent or designee is a good starting point for resolving the issue."
"The observation law states that districts may not condition or restrict program observations except when
necessary to protect:
· the safety of students in the program during the observation;
· the integrity of the program during the observation;
· and students in the program from disclosure by an observer of confidential or personally identifiable
information he or she may obtain while observing the program."




                                                                                                      2 of 2


Marblehead Public Schools Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                              File: JFABE

                EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR MILITARY CHILDREN


In an effort to facilitate the placement, enrollment, graduation, data collection and provision of special
services for students transferring into or out of the District because of their parents being on active duty
in the U.S. Armed Services, the District supports and will implement its responsibilities as outlined in
the Interstate Compact on Educational Opportunity for Military Children. The School Committee
believes it is appropriate to remove barriers to educational success imposed on children of military
families because of their parents’ frequent moves and deployment.

Definitions

Children of military families means school aged children, enrolled in kindergarten through 12th grade,
in the household of an active duty member of the uniformed service of the United States, including
members of the National Guard and Reserve serving on active duty.

Deployment means the period one month before the service members’ departure from their home
station on military orders through six months after return to their home station.

Education(al) records means official records, files, and data directly related to a student and
maintained by the school including, but not limited to, records encompassing all the material kept in the
student’s cumulative folder.

The requirements, applicable to eligible students, which must be fulfilled, are listed below. Eligible
students are those who are children of active duty personnel, active duty personnel or veterans who have
been severely injured and medically discharged, active duty personnel who die on active duty within one
year of service, and children of retired personnel from one year of retirement date. Students are not
eligible for the provisions of the Compact if they are children of inactive Guard or Reserves, retired
personnel, veterans not included above or U.S. Department of Defense personnel and other federal civil
service employees and contract employees.

The District’s responsibilities to eligible children include the following:

   ∙ Sending schools must send either official or unofficial records with the moving students and
      District receiving schools must use those records for immediate enrollment and educational
      placement.

   ∙ Simultaneously, the receiving school must request official records and the sending schools shall
       respond within 10 days with the records.

   ∙ Immunization requirements of the District may be met within 30 days from the date of enrollment
       (or be in progress).
                                                                                                1 of 2




Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                              File: JFABE
   ∙ Receiving schools must initially honor placement of students in all courses from the sending
       school. These include, but are not limited to, Honors, International Baccalaureate, Advanced
       Placement, vocational-technical, and career pathway courses if those courses are offered in the
       receiving school and space is available. The receiving schools must also initially honor
       placement of like programs to those of the student in the sending state, including, but not limited
       to, Gifted and Talented programs, and English as a Second Language programs. Receiving
       schools are not precluded from performing subsequent evaluation to ensure the appropriate
       placement and continued enrollment of the student in courses and programs.

   ∙ In compliance with federal law, special education students must be placed by the existing IEP with
        reasonable accommodations in the receiving school.

   ∙ The District will exercise, as deemed appropriate, the right to waive prerequisites for all courses
      and programs, while also maintaining its right to re-evaluate the student to ensure continued
      enrollment, as deemed appropriate.

   ∙ Students of active duty personnel shall have additional excused absences at the discretion of the
       District for visitations relative to leave or deployment.

   ∙ An eligible student living with a noncustodial parent or other person standing in loco parentis shall
      be permitted to attend the school in which he or she was enrolled while living without the
      custodial parent without any tuition fee imposed.

   ∙ The District high school will accept exit or end-of-year exams required from the sending state,
      national norm-referenced tests, or alternate testing instead of testing requirements for graduation
      in the District (receiving state.) If this is not possible, the alternative provision of the Interstate
      Compact shall be followed in order to facilitate the on-time graduation of the student in
      accordance with Compact provisions.

LEGAL REFS: M.G. L. 15E;
                 Interstate Compact on Educational Opportunity for Military Children




Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                             File: IHCA

                                        SUMMER SCHOOLS

The school system shall make available summer sessions as a supplement to the instruction offered
during the school year, when funding for such programs is available. The focus of the program will be
remedial work.
To attend tuition free summer school, students must have the approval of their classroom and/or special
subject teachers.
Students at all instructional levels may attend approved summer schools for remedial, enrichment, or
make-up purposes. Credit towards graduation requirements may be granted to high school students in
line with regulations of the School District.

All summer programs will be subject to annual approval by the School Committee.

SOURCE: MASC
LEGAL REF.: M.G.L. 71:28




Marblehead Public Schools Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                          File: IHAM-R

                                       HEALTH EDUCATION
                                       (Exemption Procedure)

The Marblehead Public Schools will furnish a standardized exemption document to all parents/guardians
at the time that notice (IHAM-E-1) of the proposed sex education curriculum is sent home. This
exemption document (IHAM-E-2) will contain the dates and topics of the proposed curriculum.

Exemption will be granted from a specific portion of health education curriculum on the grounds that the
material taught is contrary to the religious beliefs and/or teachings of the student or the student's
parent/guardian.

A request for exemption must be submitted in writing to the Principal in advance of instruction in that
portion of the curriculum for which the exemption is requested. The request must state the particular
conflict involved.

The Principal will confer with the teacher to determine the length of time a student will be exempt. The
teacher will develop an alternative activity for which the student will receive credit.

The Principal will inform the parent/guardian of disposition of the request within a reasonable number of
school days of receipt of the request.


LEGAL REF.: M.G.L. 71:1
SOURCE: MASC/Marblehead




Marblehead Public Schools Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                                File: IHAMB

                    TEACHING ABOUT ALCOHOL, TOBACCO, AND DRUGS


In accordance with state and federal law, the District shall provide age-appropriate, developmentally
appropriate, evidence-based alcohol, tobacco, and drug prevention education programs in grades K-12.

The alcohol, tobacco, and drug prevention program shall address the legal, social, and health
consequences of alcohol, tobacco, and drug use, with emphasis on nonuse by school-age children. The
program also shall include information about effective techniques and skill development for delaying
and abstaining from using, as well as skills for addressing peer pressure to use alcohol, tobacco, or
drugs.

The objectives of this program, as stated below, are rooted in the Committee’s belief that prevention
requires education, and that the most important aspect of the policies and guidelines of the District
should be the education of children and youth on healthy decision-making:

    ∙ To prevent, delay, and/or reduce alcohol, tobacco, and drug use among children and youth.

    ∙ To increase students’ understanding of the legal, social, and health consequences of alcohol,
        tobacco, and drug use.

    ∙ To teach students self-management skills, social skills, negotiation skills, and refusal skills that will
        help them to make healthy decisions and avoid alcohol, tobacco, and drug use.

The curriculum, instructional materials, and outcomes used in this program shall be recommended by
the Superintendent and approved by the School Committee.

The District will administer in two grade levels a verbal screening tool to students for substance use
disorders.
Parents will be notified of the screening beginning each year and may opt out by written notification to
the District. Trained professionals will conduct screenings during school hours. All information is
confidential and cannot be subject to discover or subpoena in any civil, criminal, legislative or
administrative proceeding. No record of any pupil statements will be kept.

This policy shall be posted on the district’s website and notice shall be provided to all students and
parents in accordance with state law. Additionally, the district shall file a copy of this policy with DESE
in accordance with law in a manner requested by DESE.


SOURCE: MASC March 2016

LEGAL REFS.: M.G.L. 71:1 ;71:96

CROSS REFS: GBEC, Drug Free Workplace Policy
                JICH, Drug and Alcohol Use by Students
Marblehead Public Schools Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                            File: IHAMA

                PARENTAL NOTIFICATION RELATIVE TO SEX EDUCATION

In accordance with General Laws Chapter 71, Section 32A, the Marblehead School Committee has
adopted this policy on the rights of parents and guardians of our students in relation to curriculum that
primarily involves human sexual education or human sexuality issues.
At the beginning of each school year, all parents/guardians of students in our schools will be notified in
writing of the courses and curriculum we offer that primarily involve human sexual or human sexuality
issues. The Superintendent of Schools will determine the administrator(s) responsible for sending the
notice(s). Parents/guardians of students who enroll in school after the start of the school year will be
given the written notice at the time of enrollment. If planned curricula change during the school year, to
the extent practicable, parents/guardians will be notified of this fact in a timely manner before
implementation.
Each such notice to parents/guardians will include a brief description of the curriculum covered by this
policy, and will inform parents/guardians that they may:
       1. Exempt their child from any portion of the curriculum that primarily involves human sexual
             education or human sexual issues, without penalty to the student, by sending a letter to
             the school Principal requesting an exemption. Any student who is exempted by request of
             the parent/guardian under this policy may be given an alternative assignment.
       2. Inspect and review program instruction materials for these curricula, which will be made
              reasonably accessible to parents/guardians and others to the extent practicable.
              Parents/guardians may arrange with the Principal to review the materials at the school
              and may also review them at other locations that may be determined by the
              Superintendent of Schools.
A parent/guardian who is dissatisfied with a decision of the Principal concerning notice, access to
instructional materials, or exemption for the student under this policy may send a written request to the
Superintendent for review of the issue. The Superintendent or designee will review the issue and give
the parent/guardian a timely written decision, preferably within two weeks of the request. A
parent/guardian who is dissatisfied with the Superintendent’s decision may send a written request to the
School Committee for review of the issue. The School Committee will review the issue and give the
parent/guardian a timely written decision, preferably within four weeks of the request. A parent/guardian
who is still dissatisfied after this process may send a written request to the Commissioner of Education
for review of the issue in the dispute.
The Superintendent of Schools will distribute a copy of this policy to each Principal by September 1 of
each year.
REF.: Department of Education
SOURCE: MASC/Marblehead




Marblehead Public Schools Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                            File: IHAM

                                       HEALTH EDUCATION

Good health depends upon continuous life-long attention to scientific advances and the acquisition of
new knowledge.
The School Committee believes that the greatest opportunity for effective health education lies within
the public schools because of their potential to reach children at the age when positive, lifelong health
habits are best engendered and because the schools are equipped to provide qualified personnel to
conduct health education programs.
The School Committee is committed to a sound, comprehensive, research-based health education
program as an integral part of each student's general education. Health education will be taught as a
district academic discipline across the curriculum.
The health education program will emphasize a contemporary approach to the presentation of health
information, skills, and the knowledge necessary for students to understand and appreciate the
functioning and proper care of the human body. Students also will be presented with information
regarding complex social, physical and mental health problems, which they might encounter in society.
In an effort to help students make intelligent choices on alternative behavior of serious personal
consequence, health education will examine the potential health hazards of social, physical and mental
problems existing in the larger school-community environment.
In order to promote a relevant, dynamic approach to the instruction of health education, the School
Committee will continue to stress the need for curricular, personnel, and financial commitments that are
necessary to assure the high quality of the system's health education program.



SOURCE: MASC October 2016
LEGAL REF.: M.G.L. 71:1




Marblehead Public Schools Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                             File: FFA

                                            MEMORIALS


The School Committee recognizes that the death of a student, member of the staff, or prominent
community member is deeply felt by the school community. As places designed primarily to support
learning, school sites should not serve as the main venue for permanent memorials.

Permanent memorials within the schools shall be limited in form to perpetual awards or scholarships,
understanding that exceptions can be made by the School Committee.

Any permanent memorials in existence before the adoption of this policy can only be removed by a vote
of the School Committee.

SOURCE: MASC August 2016
Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
