                                                                                            DATE POSTED:

                                                                                                      Town Clerk Use Only




                                               MEETING NOTICE
           POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONSOF MGL 30A §§18-25 and the Governor’s March 12, 2020 Executive order



                         Marblehead School Committee-Emergency Meeting
                                               Name of Board or Committee



Address:      Zoom Conference join via the web link or Dial in
              Link:
              https://zoom.us/j/91485431430?pwd=VTdOTVpGemFZVXR5ckdkcXFIYnZnQT09
              Dial in Phone # (415) 762-9988 with ID and follow prompts
              Meeting ID: 914 8543 1430
              Password: 303665


         Monday                    August                   10th                  2020                  7:00pm
        Day of Week                Month                    Date                  Year                   Time
             Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)


   I.   Call to Order

   II. Public Comment

   III. Reentry Plan Discussion                                      (Vote)
                             THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Chairperson:   Sarah Gold
Posted by:     Lisa Dimier
Date:          8/7/2020
2020-21 Reopening Recommendation

            8/10/2020
DESE and Commissioner Updates

★   Friday, July 31 submission - preliminary draft
★   Monday, August 3 - Commissioner call
     ○   Change of plans on ﬁnal submission process - no template/format. Just email it!
     ○   Remote Learning - DESE tone
          ■ Oversight, athletics & future funding
★   Reopening Committee - Monday and Wednesday meetings
★   Thursday, August 6 - Commissioner call
     ○   Change of plans for ﬁnal submission
     ○   Feedback on draft plans - 56 DESE employees reading 516 plans; state overview guidance
          ■ Some plans not detailed enough but limited to 400 words.
     ○   Change of tone at DESE in terms of plan selected
     ○   Sports will be discussed next week.
     ○   They are working on a metric for next week.
     ○   More info in the next 2 weeks on contact tracing and testing.
Safety Considerations
 ➔   Reopening Committee & 9 Subcommittees
     ◆   None have recommended full In-Person
 ➔   6 foot distancing moves us to a hybrid model.
     ◆   Supported by Marblehead Board of Health & CDC & MPH
 ➔   Not all teachers/educators live in MHD; Not all families work in MHD.
 ➔   Masks & mask breaks - practice, policy & compliance concerns
 ➔   Social distancing - practice & compliance concerns
 ➔   Facilities questions among the buildings
     ◆   Drop off, pick up; Hallway width & passing times; ventilation
 ➔   Testing considerations & concerns
     ◆   The problem is it tells you what’s happening right then but it doesn’t tell you what’s happening the next day
     ◆   Not sure if testing all students and staff makes sense either.
     ◆   “Testing all students before they start might be a feel-good situation but I don’t think it’s scientifically
         justified or monetarily justified.” BOH Director in another community. Financial implications.
 ➔   Students being sent to school sick
          2020-21 Recommendation: Remote-to-Hybrid




                                       First day of school: Sept 14, 2020
Administrators & educators return                                                Some students may choose to
to buildings to prepare for            In-person learning being considered for   continue full remote learning,
                                       students with IEPs/EL services.           while others will choose to merge
providing robust remote learning.
                                                                                 into the hybrid model.
                                       Community building, relationship
Distribution of student materials to   building, routines, structure,
ensure 1:1 access.                     practices. REMOTE LEARNING ++
In Phase 2 - Remote Re-Entry:

 ●   Daily routines will include:
      ○ Attendance (either at start of day or start of class, depending on level)
      ○ Beginning or end of day community circle or student announcements
      ○ Daily, direct instruction in all four content areas: ELA, Math, Social Studies, Science
 ●   Student assignments / materials & teacher resources organized on Google Classroom (K-2: See Saw)
      ○ Tech support available at the start of each day via Google Meet / Zoom
      ○ Students will make use of math and reading curriculum websites.
      ○ CLEVER will be introduced to streamline password organization for both students and staff.
 ●   Physical materials will be made available to students (textbooks, journals, etc) for low-tech work.
 ●   Technology - all students will have access to technology (self or district provided depending on need)
 ●   Synchronous specials (arts, music, wellness, library media, and digital literacy) scheduled into the day.
Sample Remote Schedules
       ELEMENTARY




                          MVMS
                          MHS
In Phase 3 - Hybrid Re-Entry:


 ●    Two cohorts of students, district wide:
      Cohorts A (A to Koo) & B (Kor - Z)
 ●    Each cohort receives 2 days per week
      of 4-hour in-person teaching (Mon/Th
      or Tu/Fri), with an additional 4 hours of
      in-person instruction every other week
      on Weds.
 ●    Afternoons are spent learning remotely in asynchronous and sometimes synchronous settings.
        ○   Students responsible for attending all synchronous sessions while remote.
        ○   Assignments provided, collected and graded throughout both in-person and remote learning times.
 ●    Lunch is not served at school (food service available to students / families indicating need).
 ●    Special Education services are in development to ensure that we are complying with or exceeding DESE guidelines.
      Special Ed students and EL students should, when safely possible, be afforded the opportunity for in-person instruction.
In Phase 3 - Full Remote

 ●    Students who elected to begin the year
      with a state model option will continue with
      remote learning in this platform, supported
      by an MPS educator.
 ●    Students electing to do remote learning
      through MPS will be assigned an educator.
      They will have daily connections with peers
      K-6 and for direct instruction. The model
      and the schedule vary at different grade
      levels. Attendance will be taken. Grades will
      be assigned; participation with respect to
      each grade level will be required.
  ●    Students at MVMS will be assigned a cohort and participate in remote learning with that cohort in either grade.
  ●    Students at MHS will have the opportunity to use Edgenuity, a program long used by the high school, to select content
       and level speciﬁc courses, which would be supported by an MHS educator, in addition select live MHS courses and other
       platforms option - Commonwealth of Massachusetts Virtual Schools: Greenﬁeld Commonwealth Virtual School (GCVS)
       or TEC Connections Academy or Virtual High School (VHS).
Next Steps
    ●   Comprehensive plan submission week of August 10
         ○ Our Plan is currently over 50 pages
    ●   Tech Survey to ensure 1:1 for every MHD student.
         ○   Do you have a device? Do you need a device?
         ○   Do you have access to the internet? Do you need access provided?
    ●   All MHD teachers are receiving a new device & will have access to their classrooms.
    ●   Parent/guardian and staff surveys ( mandatory, binding, not anonymous)
         ○   After remote learning phase, what option will your student select?
    ●   Community and staff listening ( part II)
         ○   Given the plan and the model we are following, what questions do you have?
    ●   Committees move into execution phase
         ○ Structure vs Process
    ●   Professional development for educators
    ●   Training for students and families - during September
         ○   Building walkthroughs, classroom visits, outdoor meet/greet with teacher, advisory meetings, SEL options
