                                                                                                 DATE POSTED:

                                                                                                          Town Clerk Use Only




                                                    MEETING NOTICE
               POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONSOF MGL 30A §§18-25 and the Governor’s March 12, 2020 Executive order



                                            Marblehead School Committee
                                                   Name of Board or Committee



Address:        Zoom Conference join via the web link or Dial in
                  Link:
                  https://zoom.us/j/93343679340?pwd=WDFHZng5SGlXN01rUWh2RlY5VTVudz09
                  Dial in Phone # (415) 762-9988 with ID and follow prompts
                  Meeting ID: 933 4367 9340
                  Password: 678117

              Thursday                   May                    20th                   2021                 7:00pm
             Day of Week                Month                   Date                   Year                  Time

              Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

                                                 THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

       I.    Initial Business and Public Involvement
             1. Call to Order
             2. Commendations
                   a. Building Based Commendations-Coffin Elementary School Principal, Sean Satterfield
                   b. School Committee Commendations
             3. Student Representative – Dan Howells
             4. Public Comment


       II.   Superintendent Report
             1. Graduation Update-High School Principal, Daniel Bauer
             2. Mask Guidance Update
             3. District Updates


III.         Finance Organizational Support
             1. Schedule of Bills                                                                                 (Vote)

IV.          School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
                1. Sustainability Discussion
                2. Superintendent Evaluation Process Update
                3. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
                  a. Facilities Capital Update
                4. Building Project Update
 V.    Closing Business
       1.      New Business (Not reasonably anticipated by the Chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting.)
       2.      Correspondence
       3.      Public Comment
       4.      Adjournment




Chairperson   Sarah Gold
Posted by     Lisa Dimier
Date          5/18/2021
                                                                                            File: BEDH

                 PUBLIC COMMENT AT SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETINGS


All regular and special meetings of the School Committee shall be open to the public. Executive sessions
will be held only as prescribed by the Statutes of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

The School Committee desires citizens of the District to attend its meetings so that they may become
better acquainted with the operations and the programs of our local public schools. In addition, the
Committee would like the opportunity to hear the wishes and ideas of the public.

In order that all citizens who wish to be heard before the Committee have a chance and to ensure the
ability of the Committee to conduct the District's business in an orderly manner, the following rules and
procedures are adopted:

   1. At the start of each regularly scheduled School Committee meeting, individuals or group
      representatives will be invited to address the Committee. The Chair shall determine the length of
      the public participation segment.

   2. Speakers will be allowed three (3) minutes to present their material. The presiding Chair (or a
      majority vote of the committee) may permit extension of this time limit.

   3. Individuals may address topics, within the scope of responsibility of the School Committee.

   4. Improper conduct and remarks will not be allowed. Defamatory or abusive remarks are always out
      of order. If a speaker persists in improper conduct or remarks, the Chair may terminate that
      individual's privilege of address.

   5. All remarks will be addressed through the Chair of the meeting.

   6. Speakers may offer such objective criticisms of the school operations and programs as concern
      them, but in public session the Committee will not hear personal complaints of school personnel
      nor against any member of the school community. Under most circumstances, administrative
      channels are the proper means for disposition of legitimate complaints involving staff members.

   7. Written comments longer than three (3) minutes may be presented to the Committee before or after
      the meeting for the Committee members' review and consideration at an appropriate time.

   8. Public Comment is not a discussion, debate, or dialogue between citizens and the Committee. It is
      a citizen's opportunity to express his/her opinion on issues of School Committee business. The
      Committee and/or administrator's may not be prepared to directly respond to citizen questions
      posed in this forum but the Chair may request that citizens put the question in writing to the
      appropriate person or body so that the matter is given the proper consideration.


SOURCE: Marblehead



Marblehead Public Schools         -    Approved 10/18/18
                                                                                    File: EBCFA


FACE COVERINGS


The Marblehead Public School District is committed to providing a safe environment as schools
reopen during the COVID-19 pandemic. According to public health experts, one of the best
ways to stop the spread of coronavirus and to keep members of our school community safe is
the use of face masks. Therefore, in accordance with updated guidance from the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the Department of Elementary and Secondary
Education (DESE), the Massachusetts Department of Public Health (DPH), and the
Massachusetts Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs, the following
requirements are in place until further notice.

A face mask that, per DPH and CDC guidance:

    ● covers the nose and mouth;
    ● fits securely and comfortably against the side of the face;
    ● is secured with ties or ear loops;
    ● allows for breathing without restriction;
    ● does NOT have an exhalation valve or vent; and
    ● can be laundered and machine dried without damage or change of shape

must be worn by all individuals inside school buildings (including all schools and the school
district central offices) and on school transportation. Students are exempt from masking
requirements when outdoors on school property, even when social distancing cannot be
maintained. All adults who are not students must continue to wear masks outdoors on school
property during school hours when social distancing cannot be maintained. Individuals
attending school-sponsored events that do not occur on school property are subject to the
masking requirements applicable to that property.

Exempted from this policy are individuals under the age of 2. Families will be required to
provide a daily face mask, along with a backup face mask, if possible. Face masks should be
labeled with the student's name. Schools will have backup masks when needed should a face
mask become soiled, broken or misplaced.

Individuals may be excused from the requirement for the following list of reasons, per CDC
guidance:

The individual:
   ● has trouble breathing;
   ● is unconscious;
   ● is incapacitated;
   ● cannot remove the mask or face covering without assistance.
In addition, accommodations will be made for individuals for whom wearing face masks is not
possible or safe due to a medical condition, disability impact, a significant impediment to
communication, or other health or safety factors, which for students may include behavioral
challenges. Medical documentation acceptable to Marblehead Public Schools is required for a
requested accommodation. Any accommodations must be approved by the building Principal in
consultation with the school nurse or local board of health. A face shield or physical barrier is
not an acceptable substitute for a face mask unless it has been deemed appropriate with an
official exemption as part of the accommodation determination. Parents may not excuse their
child from the face mask requirement by signing a waiver.

Additionally, face masks will not be required:
   ● during mask breaks that occur inside school buildings, with a minimum of 6 feet of
   physical distance between individuals. All mask breaks are optional for the individual
   student. Students who do not want or need a mask break will not be forced to participate.

A student’s mask is to be provided by the student’s family. Staff members will be supplied
masks. The district will supply a disposable face mask for individuals who arrive at a building, or
who board school transportation, without one. In addition to their required characteristics per
DPH and CDC guidance listed above, masks must be appropriate in compliance with the same
rules as are set forth in the school Dress Code and Student Handbook. No masks containing
offensive or inappropriate material will be allowed.

 If a student refuses to wear a mask while inside school buildings and does not have a
documented reason that is consistent with this Policy, the student will be sent home. Currently,
mask wearing is mandated by the State of Massachusetts and the decision to dismiss a student
for not wearing a mask has been approved by the Marblehead Board of Health. While we strive
to educate through restorative justice principles, there will be progressive discipline for students
who do not follow the mask guidelines.

Violations of this policy by staff will be handled in the same manner as other violations of School
Committee policy or of the Marblehead Public Schools workplace rules and requirements.

Visitors in violation of this policy will be denied entry to the school/district facility.

This policy will remain in place until rescinded by the School Committee.

The Superintendent is delegated the authority to amend or revise this policy in
accordance with updated guidance from the Massachusetts Department of
Public Health and DESE, so long as such amendments or revisions are
consistent with such updated guidance.

LEGAL REF.: Commonwealth of Massachusetts, COVID-19 Order No. 31 -
https://www.mass.gov/doc/may-1-2020-masks-and-face-coverings/download

REFS.: Center for Disease Control and Prevention – Considerations for Wearing Masks -
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/cloth-face-cover-
guidance.html Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education –
Reopening Guidelines - http://www.doe.mass.edu/covid19/
Commonwealth of Massachusetts – Mask Up MA! –
https://www.mass.gov/news/mask-up-ma
SOURCE: MASC –
Marblehead Public Schools Originally approved August 2020, Revised 5/13/2021; Revised
5/19/21;Revised 5/20/2021
                                                                             Business Office
                                                                             9 Widger Road,
               MARBLEHEAD                                                    Marblehead, MA 01945
                                                                             phone: 781.639.3140
               PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                                fax: 781.639.3149




                                         MEMORANDUM


TO:            Marblehead School Committee
FROM:          Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance
DATE:          May 19, 2021
RE:            Schedule of Bills for Approval


Included in this packet is the following Schedules of Bills for your consideration. The schedules
and invoices have been uploaded to Dropbox and the required signatures have been obtained for
each schedule.

                              Schedule             Amount
                               20847      $                   587.70
                               20849      $               189,521.42
                               20854      $                 4,689.51
                               20855      $                 9,810.65
                               20856      $                20,964.95

                               Total      $               225,574.23




Suggested Motion:
Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $225,574.23.
