Superintendent’s Update
  In-Person Learning
     April 8, 2021
Marblehead Public Schools plan to begin a return to in-person learning


Return to full-time, in-person school five days per week would proceed in two phases



                Phase I                            Phase II

        Elementary School                  Middle & High School
           (Grades K-5)                       (Grades 7-12)
        March 15th ½ days                     April 5th ½ days

               th                            April 26th FULL days
        April 5 FULL days                                     2
         Eveleth School & Village 3rd
               Donna Zaeske
★   At Eveleth the kids have been back for 3 weeks but are now adjusting to a full day
    schedule.
★   Everything seems to be going smoothly through this ﬁnal transition.
★   At Grade 3 Village we have had a great week.
★   Parents have volunteered for our lunch and recess block and that seems to be falling in
    place.
★   Kids just seem to be settling into their full day schedule.
★   We are grateful for the help in supervision from the parents and look forward to a very
    active and productive rest of the school year.
★   Our teachers have collaborated and offered up ideas to help support the students
    through this ﬁnal transition.
★   Many of our staff members have received 1 or more doses of the vaccine!
                              Eveleth School




"We are writers!" - Writing Workshop   Observing Mallard ducks at Ware Pond
                           Coffin School
                          Sean Satterfield
★   Our staff and students have transitioned smoothly from the everyday half days to full
    days.
★   Thanks to the leasing of the tent and the donation of 100 buckets from Marblehead
    ACE, everyday is a picnic outside at Coffin!
★   With the help of our parent volunteers, lunch times have gone very smoothly.
★   Our teachers are grateful for the added live instruction in the afternoon.
★   Though our students are somewhat tired now in the afternoons they are making the
    adjustments!
 Coffin School




Picnic Lunch
                             Glover School
                               Brian Ota
★ The April 5th full day reopening went well.
★ It was the last transition and was eagerly met with smiles and excitement from
    students and staff.
★   There were a few children who experienced anxiety over the change in schedule. Our
    staff was prepared for this and was able to quickly work with these students, calming
    concerns and getting them back to a relaxed state and ready to join their classmates.
★   Hats off to our lunch/recess parent volunteers! Without them it would have been
    extremely difficult to manage the lunches and recesses. They were able to follow the
    lunch procedures and manage the recesses.
     ○ We are still short for support in May and June.
     ○ As our parent volunteers enjoyed this week’s work we hope they will become
          Glover’s ambassadors and help get others to volunteer.
Glover School




 Outdoor Music
                            Village School
                            Mandy Murphy
★   Village has had a terriﬁc transition.
★   Today we had a conversation about how the progressive transitions from hybrid 1/2
    day in person to combined cohorts 1/2 day in person to everyone in full days helped
    make the changes seamless and less dramatic.
★   Students are excited to be in every day and enjoy eating lunch with one another.
★   Teachers are excited to have everyone in front of them rather than planning for in
    person and remote and making sure everyone is on the same page.
★   We've also talked about some of these changes being positive in the long run.
★   Eating lunch outside whenever possible outside the pandemic would be nice.
★   Getting parents in to see kids in action has been welcomed.
★   Students are appreciative and happy to be in school.
★   The allied arts teachers who have been remote all year are very excited to be seeing
    students live in person for the remainder of the school year.
  Village School




Outdoor Learning
                Veterans Middle School
                       Matt Fox
★   Here at Vets we had a great re-start!

★   Our students have met our safety expectations, are collaborating with their peers,
    interacting positivity with their teachers, and most importantly - Smiling!

★   Our faculty and staff have worked diligently to ease everyone's transition back into
    school, and I have heard from parents about how supportive they have been of our
    students.

★   While we are still ﬁne-tuning a few little movement issues around school; overall, we
    have had a great start to the fourth quarter! There's a feeling of a little bit of normalcy
    here at MVMS.
      MVMS




Back in Science labs
               Marblehead High School
                     Dan Bauer
★    It has been a great start to full in-person learning. There was a great deal of excitement as
    students entered the building on Monday. Thanks to Mr. Scoglio and Mr. Goddu as there was
    music to greet our students.
★   Student drop-off went well as we have expanded the number of students arriving at school.
★   For school spirit, our staff dressed in MHS gear and our students wore school colors of Red &
    Black.
★   Students are continuing to follow the established safety guidelines. We were able to work
    through the student movement pattern as there was a change on the second day from the
    one-way hallways and stairwells to a direct route to class. This improved the student
    movement between classes a great deal. We are monitoring for further adjustments if
    needed.
★   Our staff is adjusting well and the feedback was positive.
★   Student feedback was positive as they are glad to be back into a routine and able to connect
    with their peers.
            Marblehead High School




Welcome Banner         Mr. Goddu & Mr. Scoglio
                           welcome music
                         Student Services
                           Eric Oxford
★   As you know, our department has done really well since the start of the school year
    with ﬁnding ways to maximize in-person learning for our highest needs learners
    (special ed, ELL, and others at-risk).
★   Now that more students are back in school full-time, it has become evident that our
    efforts have paid off: these "highest needs" learners have taken in stride the increased
    number of bodies now in the schools. They are really at an advantage with regard to
    stamina and continuity of in-person learning since the start of the year, which has
    signiﬁcantly decreased concerns of regulation and transitional related issues.
★   I'm extremely proud of the efforts of our department staff (Chairs, teachers, service
    providers, tutors and paras).
                                  Metco
                               Heidi Harris
★   The K12 METCO students have been full day since March 15th and are doing very well.

★   The extended learning time was use to build a stronger sense of community, provide
    academic enrichment, and provide homework help when needed.

★   Three students have transitioned from full remote learning to full in person.

★   Both the K-8 bus and the HS bus have been able to accommodate all the the students
    under the new guidance.

★   The students have handled all of the transitions very well; we continue to support
    them well.

★   The program is moving forward with annual events such as Cultural Feast & Student
    Showcase, as well as the virtual Student Voice consultancies at the secondary level to
    speak about how they experience Inclusion and Equity.
    Covid-19 Positive Case
★ Contact Tracing
  ○ Binder
  ○ Seating Charts
  ○ Process & Collaboration - BoH
★ Notifications
  ○ General
  ○ Close Contacts
  ○ Staff
Questions
