                                                                                            File: BEDH

                 PUBLIC COMMENT AT SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETINGS


All regular and special meetings of the School Committee shall be open to the public. Executive sessions
will be held only as prescribed by the Statutes of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

The School Committee desires citizens of the District to attend its meetings so that they may become
better acquainted with the operations and the programs of our local public schools. In addition, the
Committee would like the opportunity to hear the wishes and ideas of the public.

In order that all citizens who wish to be heard before the Committee have a chance and to ensure the
ability of the Committee to conduct the District's business in an orderly manner, the following rules and
procedures are adopted:

   1. At the start of each regularly scheduled School Committee meeting, individuals or group
      representatives will be invited to address the Committee. The Chair shall determine the length of
      the public participation segment.

   2. Speakers will be allowed three (3) minutes to present their material. The presiding Chair (or a
      majority vote of the committee) may permit extension of this time limit.

   3. Individuals may address topics, within the scope of responsibility of the School Committee.

   4. Improper conduct and remarks will not be allowed. Defamatory or abusive remarks are always out
      of order. If a speaker persists in improper conduct or remarks, the Chair may terminate that
      individual's privilege of address.

   5. All remarks will be addressed through the Chair of the meeting.

   6. Speakers may offer such objective criticisms of the school operations and programs as concern
      them, but in public session the Committee will not hear personal complaints of school personnel
      nor against any member of the school community. Under most circumstances, administrative
      channels are the proper means for disposition of legitimate complaints involving staff members.

   7. Written comments longer than three (3) minutes may be presented to the Committee before or after
      the meeting for the Committee members' review and consideration at an appropriate time.

   8. Public Comment is not a discussion, debate, or dialogue between citizens and the Committee. It is
      a citizen's opportunity to express his/her opinion on issues of School Committee business. The
      Committee and/or administrator's may not be prepared to directly respond to citizen questions
      posed in this forum but the Chair may request that citizens put the question in writing to the
      appropriate person or body so that the matter is given the proper consideration.


SOURCE: Marblehead



Marblehead Public Schools         -    Approved 10/18/18
Superintendent’s Update
     Feb 22, 2021
DESE -- Recommending Board provide the Commissioner with the authority to
shift away from remote and hybrid models, and begin a fuller return to in-person
learning
Return to full-time, in-person school five days per week would proceed in three phases

             Phase I                         Phase II                           Phase III

      Elementary School                   Middle School                     High School
         (Grades K-5)                     (Grades 6-8)                     (Grades 9-12)
            April 5th                       April 28th                      TBA in April
                                                                            2



                    Timeline for subsequent phases will be determined in
                 consultation with medical experts and state health officials
Marblehead Public Schools plan to begin a return to in-person learning


Return to full-time, in-person school five days per week would proceed in two phases



                Phase I                            Phase II

        Elementary School                  Middle & High School
           (Grades K-5)                       (Grades 7-12)
        March 15th ½ days                     April 5th ½ days
        April 5th FULL days                  April 26th FULL days
                                                              3
The health, safety, and wellbeing of our students and staff has been
paramount from Day 1 of the pandemic
 Since the crisis began, we have:

  • Released over 225 pages of guidance on health, safety, and student wellbeing, including
    updates throughout the school year

  • Provided 10 days at the start of the year for staff to train on in-person, hybrid, and remote
    learning models

  • In addition to significant federal and state funding, directly supplied districts with 1.5M masks,
    over 12,000 air purifiers, $33M in grants to support the purchase of Chromebooks and wifi
    hotspots, and $4M in mental health grants

  • Served as a national leader on COVID-19 testing in schools, adopting new testing
                                                                                  4 technologies
    as soon as they become available (includes mobile response testing, Abbott Binax NOW
    antigen testing, and pooled testing for students and staff)
     o Approximately 50% of Massachusetts schools now offer weekly pooled testing
   Since January, COVID-19 case rates have improved significantly across the
   Commonwealth
                          New cases: Jan. 3 – Jan. 16                                                              New cases: Feb. 14 – Feb. 27




Source: The Boston Globe; Massachusetts Department of Public Health. Available at:
https://www.bostonglobe.com/2020/12/04/nation/see-how-massachusetts-covid-19-risk-map-has-evolved-week-by-week/.
https://www.bostonglobe.com/2020/12/18/nation/see-which-massachusetts-communities-are-high-risk-covid-19/                                         5
   The vaccine rollout is in process: Over 2 million doses have been administered
   and educators will be eligible to book vaccine appointments next week




                                                                                                                                              Educators and other K-12
                                                                                                                                             workers are eligible to book
                                                                                                                                               vaccine appointments
                                                                                                                                                beginning March 11




Source: Daily COVID Vaccine Report:
https://www.mass.gov/info-details/massachusetts-covid-19-vaccination-data-and-updates#daily-covid-19-vaccine-report-. The Boston Globe; MA
COVID Command Center. Available at: https://www.bostonglobe.com/nation/special-reports/coronavirus/vaccine/?p1=HP_TrendingBar                                          6
Over 300 doctors have signed a letter supporting in-person learning with
mitigation measures, including 3 feet of distance between students when
masked       EXCERPTS FROM FEBRUARY LETTER (emphasis added)

  Dear Commissioner Riley,

  We are a group of infectious diseases physicians, pediatricians, and public health experts from across the state of Massachusetts. We
  write to express our concerns with the Return to School guidelines recently released by the CDC on Feb 12, 2021, and to reinforce our
  conviction that the guidelines set out by the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE) in June 2020 are more
  appropriate to guide Massachusetts….

  Massachusetts has implemented broad, effective mitigation measures in its schools throughout the state…. Many of these
  recommendations are in full force, which make closer spacing between students when masked (i.e. when not eating) both
  reasonable, and much needed to increase in-person learning in many current classroom configurations….

  Massachusetts private and public schools have opened with as little as 3 feet of distance between students and have proven that
  with these other mitigation measures, in-school transmission is exceedingly rare. The closer spacing fails when these other mitigation
  pieces are not in place….

  We have also seen that the risks to students of not being in school are dramatic. Students are more isolated learning from home, and
  consequently suffer more mental health issues, as well as physical health concerns, increased rates of non-accidental trauma, and
  learning loss. Remote learning is not a reasonable long-term substitute for in person school. Every effort must be made to return the
  students of Massachusetts to in-person education in order to combat these other concerns, that are also of public health
  importance….

                                                                                                                                           7
    DESE’s initial fall guidance
    referenced a critical study
    from The Lancet, which
    noted that risk of infection
    is similar at 1 meter (~ 3
    feet) and 2 meters (~6 feet)
    in low to intermediate risk
    settings




Source: Initial Fall Reopening Guidance. (2020) Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. Study: Chu, D.K., Akl, E.A., Duda S., Solo K., Yaacoub S., Schunemann H.J. et al. (2020) Physical
distancing, face masks, and eye protection to prevent person-to-person transmission of SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19: a systematic review and meta-analysis. The Lancet. Available at:
https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(20)31142-9/fulltext                                                                                                                   8
   Study of Massachusetts data indicates no substantial difference in cases among
   students or staff with 3 versus 6 feet of distance since schools reopened




                                                                                                                                                           Staff case rates:
                                                                                                                                                             • Blue = 3 ft
                                                                                                                                                             • Gray = 6 ft



                                                                                                                                                           Student case rates:
                                                                                                                                                             • Orange = 3 ft
                                                                                                                                                             • Yellow = 6 ft




Source: Polly van den Berg, MD; Elissa M. Schechter-Perkins, MD, MPH; Rebecca S. Jack, MPP; Isabella Epshtein, MPP; Richard Nelson, PhD; Emily Oster, PhD; Westyn Branch-Elliman, MD, MMSc.
SARS-CoV-2 Cases in Students and Staff in Massachusetts with Variable Distancing Policies. Infection control plans for Commonwealth school districts with any in person learning were collected,
with universal masking for students in grade 3 and higher and universal masking for staff mandatory. 243 districts were included, comprising 520,129 students and 6,227,765 student learning
                                                                                                                                                                                                   9
weeks, and 97,679 staff and 1,313,532 staff learning weeks. SARS-CoV-2 cases in students and staff in districts with in-person learning with different distancing policies were compared.
Parents will still have a choice for their children to learn remotely through the
end of this school year




                                                                                    10
Districts can apply for waivers to address a limited set of circumstances in which
they make a compelling case that they must take an incremental approach

Examples of possible waiver requests:

• Districts that have been primarily in a fully remote model all year can submit a waiver to take a more
  incremental approach (for instance seeking first to return in a hybrid model, before proceeding to full
  in-person instruction later in this school year).

• Schools that operate with a grades K-4 configuration, with grade 5 in another school building, can
  submit a waiver to delay implementation of full-time, in-person learning for grade 5 until the middle
  school phase begins.

• In very limited circumstances, waivers may be considered for operational constraints and feasibility
  issues, on a temporary basis.

• Other requests will be considered on a case-by-case basis.

                                  MPS IS NOT SEEKING A WAIVER
                                                                                                            11
DESE is committed to supporting districts with the transition to in-person learning

                A guidance document was released yesterday, March 9 and included detailed
  Guidance      requirements and implementation recommendations for returning to in-person school


 Personalized   DESE’s COVID-19 operations help center will be available for individual consultations
  technical     with districts and schools facing challenges with implementation, including optimization of
   support      physical space


                Districts can take advantage of several opportunities to hire additional staff to support
   Staffing     an in-person return including emergency license opportunities, DCS database partnership
  supports      for substitutes, and the high school internship program


                Districts have received significant funds to support this work, including $194.4M in ESSER
   Funding      I and $740M in ESSER II. These funds follow the Title I formula to support our neediest
                districts. Additionally, $182M in School Reopening Grants were issued last year

                                                                                                            12
Looking ahead: Addressing unfinished learning and closing gaps with an equity
focus

Spring: Continue to provide supports for mental health, FAFSA completion, and support for seniors who
did not meet the Competency Determination requirement

Summer: Stand up robust summer school programming and academic interventions, including:
• Launch a state-wide acceleration academy program with a focus on “gateway grades” in key areas (e.g.
  early literacy, middle school math), both for this summer and subsequent summers
• Support districts in identifying high-quality programs to serve students in other grades

Fall: Plan for a full return in-person across all grade levels
• Work with districts and schools to ensure a focus on teaching grade level content, with appropriate
   scaffolds for all learners
• Focus on whole child needs (mental and physical health), in addition to academics


                     Supporting students with unfinished learning and closing
                        gaps will be an ongoing focus and multi-year effort
                                                                                                         13
       School Committee Vote
★ Because the regulations have the force of law, once the Commissioner makes the
  determination that hybrid and remote learning will no longer count towards
  structured learning time, a school committee vote on which learning model to
  adopt is not necessary because full-time, in-person learning will be the default
  required model.
   ○ April 5, 2021 (K-5); April 28, 2021 (6-8) - DESE dates, not MPS


★ Remote learning should be provided only if parents/guardians opt out of
  in-person learning for the remainder of this school year and for students who
  must remain home due to a COVID-19 related issue.
   ○ DO YOU WISH TO CHANGE YOUR CURRENT MODEL?
      Model Change Guidance
For many districts, this will be a substantial programming shift mid-school year. Families
should expect that districts may need to make challenging tradeoffs to accommodate the
full in-person instructional mode. For instance, if students are currently learning in a hybrid
model, the shift to more in-person days may require changes in classroom learning spaces and,
in some cases, teacher-student assignments. If students are currently in a remote model or
choose to learn remotely when these new requirements go into effect, the remote learning
option may look different than the model offered prior to the implementation of these new
requirements.
After families make a choice between full in-person and remote, a parent or guardian who
subsequently wishes to have their student switch from a remote to in-person model, should be
aware that the school or district may require a reasonable transition period. Consistent with
DESE’s Remote Learning Guidance,30 we recommend that this transition period be ideally no
more than four to six weeks. THE END OF THE YEAR IS JUNE 15, 2021
Questions
BUDGET PRIORITIES
                                         Budget Priorities - Prioritized
Brown
2 Teachers
                                                                           121,120.00
4 Paraprofessionals
                                                                            66,550.00
Technology
Capital Leases (for network switching, wireless, & phone system)
                                                                           212,760.00
2 Integration technology Specialists (MAYBE ONE)
                                                                            80,000.00
Central Admin
HR Director
                                                                            80,000.00
Curriculum
2 Instructional Specialists (MAYBE ONE)
                                                                            80,000.00
New math Program K-8 (year 1 cost)
                                                                           100,000.00
Village
Guidance Counselor Position
                                                                            60,560.00
MHS
Academic Skills Teacher, currently filled with fellow
                                                                            55,839.00
Veterans
Add Reading teacher
                                                                            60,560.00
                                          Budget Priorities - Prioritized
Facilities
Custodian for Brown School
                                                                            37,051.00
Glover
2 Add'l Allied Arts teachers, totaling 1.0 FTE
                                                                            60,560.00
Village
2 Add'l Allied Arts teachers, totaling 1.0 FTE
                                                                            60,560.00
MHS
Change BRYT Tutor to BRYT Teacher
                                                                            27,379.00
Increase position to Director of Guidance
                                                                            10,000.00
Facilities
Administrative Support
                                                                            36,833.00
Groundskeeper
                                                                            45,037.00
Central Admin
Community Relations Liaison
                                                                            42,000.00
MHS Athletics
Replacement of Scoreboard
                                                                            12,500.00
BUDGET CALENDAR 3.11.21
ENROLLMENT
Budget Overview – Enrollment




                               22
Projected Enrollment Data - NESDEC
Enrollment Budget Number Projections - 3.11.21
        Marblehead COVID Mental Health Task Force
In response to community and parent concerns, the Board of Health is forming
the Marblehead COVID Mental Health Task Force. The Board is requesting
applications from Marblehead Health Care Professionals to fill one position and
from Marblehead citizens (applicants could be Marblehead parents) to fill 2
positions. Other members to be appointed will be from the Council on Aging,
School Department, Counseling Center and Town Administration.


Applicants are to send applications to Andrea Flaxer, Health Department, Administrative Assistant
at: flaxera@marblehead.org Attention Michelle Gottlieb. Applications are due on March 22 and
appointments will be made at the next BOH meeting on March 24th.
Brown
                2 Teachers                                                         (   121,120.00)
                4 Paraprofessionals                                                (    66,550.00)
Technology
                Capital Leases (for network switching, wireless, & phone system)   (   212,760.00)
                2 Integration technology Specialists (MAYBE ONE)                   (    80,000.00) this is for one
Central Admin
                HR Director                                                        (    80,000.00)
Curriculum
                2 Instructional Specialists (MAYBE ONE)                            (    80,000.00) this is for one
                New math Program K-8 (year 1 cost)                                 (   100,000.00)
Village
                Guidance Counselor Position                                        (    60,560.00)
MHS
                Academic Skills Teacher, currently filled with fellow              (    55,839.00)
Veterans
                Add Reading teacher                                                (    60,560.00)
Facilities
                Custodian for Brown School                                         (    37,051.00)
Glover
                2 Add'l Allied Arts teachers, totaling 1.0 FTE                     (    60,560.00)
Village
                2 Add'l Allied Arts teachers, totaling 1.0 FTE                     (    60,560.00)
MHS
                Change BRYT Tutor to BRYT Teacher                                  (    27,379.00)
                Increase position to Director of Guidance                          (    10,000.00)
Facilities
                Administrative Support                                             (    36,833.00)
                Groundskeeper                                                      (    45,037.00)
Central Admin
                Community Relations Liaison                                        (    42,000.00)
MHS Athletics
                Replacement of Scoreboard                                          (    12,500.00)
