Memorandum of Agreement
Between the Marblehead School Committee
And
The Marblehead Custodians’ Unit
December 4, 2024

The Marblehead School Committee (“Committee”) and the Marblehead Public Schools Custodian’s
Association (“Union”) agree that provisions in their 2024-2025 collective bargaining agreement shall be
amended as follows for a successor collective bargaining agreement:

1. Article 23: Duration (p. 26)

Amend Article 23 as follows:
A. Replace “July 1, 2024” with “July 1, 2025” and replace “June 30, 2025 with “June 30,

2028” in the first sentence.

B. Replace “no earlier than January 15, 2024” with “no earlier than January 15, 2028” in the
second sentence.

2. Sick Leave —e
A. Relabel the current Article 6 as “Article 6A”: Sick Leave

B. Article 6A: Sick Leave

Effective July 1" after ratification of this Agreement, amend the first paragraph in Article 6A as
follows (deleted language struck; new language underlined and bold):
All full-time employees shall be entitled to ffteen-45) eighteen (18) working days per
year sick leave with pay. Unused sick leave may be accumulated to an amount not in
excess of one hundred eighty (180) working days. The maximum amount of unused sick
leave days against which the applicable percentage applies under Article 12, Section 5,
shall be as follows: 470 180 days.

C. Combined Sick Leave Bank
A. Delete the last paragraph in Article 6A.
B. Add the following new Article 6B - Combined Sick Leave Bank:

ARTICLE 6B

COMBINED SICK LEAVE BANK
Effective with the start of the school year following ratification of this Agreement, there shall be
established a Sick Leave Bank for employees covered by the Marblehead Education Association
Tutors Unit, Paraprofessional Unit, Custodians Unit, and Permanent Substitutes Unit with the
following rules and regulations.
The Sick Leave Bank is a benefit available to support employees in positions represented by
the bargaining units who due to a prolonged serious illness, have exhausted their accumulated
sick, personal, or other leave time and may require additional time to recover from their

illness.

a.
b.

c.

i. The purpose of Sick Leave Bank is to support members who are experiencing the
devasting effects of a serious, long-term illness or injury. It is not designed to replace
or extend accrued sick time for individual employees and it should not be used for
purposes for which it was not intended.

Initial Establishment of Sick Leave Bank Criteria

i. Beginning on the first day of the work year following ratification of this agreement,
all employees in positions represented by the MEA in the Tutor Unit,
Paraprofessional Unit, and Permanent Substitute Unit will be given the opportunity to
be members of the Sick Leave Bank by donating one (1) of their sick days to the Sick
Leave Bank each school year.

New Hire and/or Member Buy in AFTER initial Establishment of the Sick Leave Bank

i. New hires have thirty (30) calendar days to join the Sick Leave Bank from the date of
employment by donating one (1) of their sick days to the Sick Leave Bank.

ii.Current employees who did NOT buy into the Sick Leave Bank when it was
established and employees who did not elect to join the Sick Leave Bank within
thirty calendar days from the date of employment will have thirty (30) calendar days
from the start of the new school year to buy into the Sick Leave Bank by donating
two (2) of their sick days to the Sick Leave Bank.

iii, | Current employees who buy into the Sick Leave Bank after the initial
establishment and new employees who buy into the Sick Leave Bank after thirty
calendar days from the date of employment will be eligible to draw from the Sick
Leave Bank AFTER one (1) school year of membership in the Sick Leave Bank.

d. Replenishment of the Sick Leave Bank

e,.

i. The maximum number of days in the Sick Leave Bank shall be one hundred (100)
and the minimum number of days shall be thirty (30).

ii. When the number falls below thirty (30) days during a school year, all current
members of the Sick Leave Bank who have completed their probationary period will
donate one (1) day. If the number of days remaining in the Sick Leave Bank falls
below thirty (30) days again in the same school year, members who have the
maximum number of sick leave days will each be asked to contribute one (1)
additional day to replenish the Sick Leave Bank.

iii, Members of the Sick Leave Bank who retire from the Marblehead Public Schools
may donate up to ten (10) days to the Sick Leave Bank.

iv. Any Sick Leave Bank days that are not used in one school year shall be carried
over to the next school year subject to section 4. a) above.

Opting Out of Membership in the Sick Leave Bank.

i. Members of the Sick Leave Bank must notify the payroll office in writing at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the start of the new work year if they want to discontinue
their membership in the Sick Leave Bank. Failure to notify in writing will
automatically continue membership in the Sick Leave Bank for the work year.
f. Administration of the Sick Leave Bank

i. A Sick Leave Bank Committee of four (4) members will be established between the
Marblehead Education Association (“Association”) and the Marblehead Public
Schools The Sick Leave Bank Committee will consist of two (2) members designated
by the School Committee to serve at the School Committee’s discretion and two (2)
members designated by the MEA President/Co-Presidents.

ii. The Sick Leave Bank Committee shall determine the eligibility for the use of the
Sick Leave Bank and the amount of leave to be granted.

iii. Awards of benefits from the Sick Leave Bank require a majority vote of the full
Sick Leave Bank Committee.

iv. In the event ofa tie vote, eligibility will be determined by the School Committee
where the Marblehead Education Association will represent the member requesting
days from the Sick Leave Bank in executive session.

v. Any initial grant of sick leave by the Sick Leave Bank Committee shall not exceed
thirty (30) days. If need continues, reapplication to the Sick Leave Bank may be
made for further extensions up to a maximum of thirty (30) days each. Except as
provided hereafter in this paragraph, no more than ninety (90) days may be granted
by the Sick Leave Bank Committee to any individual for a single illness or accident.
The Sick Leave Bank Committee agrees to give due consideration to those situations
of unusual circumstances and for hardship arising from prolonged illness or accident
when an employee’s accrued sick leave and ninety (90) days from the Sick Leave
Bank Committee have been exhausted. Such situations will be brought to attention
of the Sick Leave Bank Committee by the Association only, whereupon the Sick
Leave Bank Committee may authorize additional days from the Sick Leave Bank but
not to exceed the balance of days in the Sick Leave Bank.

vi. _Amember who has received a grant from the Sick Leave Bank, upon their return
to regular duties during the work year, will receive up to five (5) sick leave days from
the bank to be used in the event of illness during the remainder of the school year.
Days not used will be returned to the Sick Leave Bank on the last day of school in the

work year.

g. Criteria to Request Days from the Sick Leave Bank.

i. Subject to the provisions of this Article, the Sick Leave Bank Committee shall utilize
the following criteria in administering the Sick Leave Bank and in determining
eligibility and amount of leave:

1. Adequate medical evidence, including diagnosis and prognosis, of serious
and/or prolonged illness or injury and expected date of return. This
information shall remain confidential with the Sick Leave Bank Committee.
The Sick Leave Bank Committee may require a second opinion from an
independent medical examiner. The cost of the independent medical
examination will be borne by the employer.

2. Access to the Sick Leave Bank may be barred because of the history of prior
usage or annual and accumulated sick leave.
3. In order for a member to be eligible for the Sick Leave Bank benefits in a
successive school year, the members must return to work for a period of time
at least as long as the period for which the member received benefits. The
Sick Leave Bank Committee may waive this provision in extraordinary
circumstances.

h. Sick Leave Bank Binding Agreement.
i. This Article is not subject to grievance and arbitration. The decision of the Sick Leave
Bank Committee with respect to eligibility and entitlement shall be final and binding and
not subject to appeal except for reconsider to the Committee itself.

3. Article 12, Section 5 — Sick Leave Retirement Pay
Amend the last sentence in Section 5 as follows (new language underlined; deleted language
struck):
Effective with retirements that occur after the date of ratification of this Agreement, the
Lhe maximum amount of sick leave days to which the applicable percentage shall apply
will be 47 180 days.

4. Article 12
A. Effective July 1, 2025, increase all steps in each Group by 2%.
B. Effective July 1, 2026, increase steps in each Group by 2.5%.
C. Effective July 1, 2027, increase steps in each Group by 2.5%.

5. Article 12, Section 7 — Uniform Allowance
Effective July 1" following ratification of this Agreement, revise the first sentence in paragraph G
in Article 12, Section 7 as follows (deleted language struck; new language underlined):
Employees shall receive a shoe/boot/outerwear allowance of $400 two hundred dollars
($200.00) per contract year. Effective July 1, 2027, the shoe/boot/outerwear allowance
shall be five hundred dollars ($500).

6. Article 3, Section 1 - Hours of Work (Night Differential)
Increase the night differential in the table as follows:

Effective Date Night Shift Differential for Employees Regularly
Scheduled to the 2“ Shift

July 1, 2025 $1.50 per hour

July 1, 2026 $2.00 per hour

This Memorandum of Agreement is subject to ratification by the MEA Custodians’ Unit and approval of
the Marblehead School Committee and ratification by the MEA Custodians’ Unit and approval by the
Marblehead School Committee of the Memorandum of Agreement covering the period of July 1, 2024 —
June 30, 2025. Subject to the prior sentence, this Agreement is agreed to by the bargaining teams for the
Custodians’ Unit and the School Committee on this ___ day of December 2024.

Bargaining Team for the Bargaining Team for the
j Custodians’ Unit

y

