Memorandum of Agreement
Between the Marblehead School Committee And
The Marblehead Education Association Unit — Paraprofessionals
November 26, 2024

The Marblehead School Committee “(Committee”) and the Marblehead Education Association —
Paraprofessionals’ Unit (“Union”) agree that provisions in their 2021-2024 collective bargaining
agreement shall be amended as follows for a successor collective bargaining agreement:

1. Article 24: Duration and Renewal (p. 19)
Amend Article 24 as follows:
A. Replace “September 1, 2021 to August 31, 2024” with “September 1, 2024 to August 31,
2025” in the first sentence.

B. Replace “January 15, 2023” with “January 15, 2025” in the second sentence.

2. Article 1— Recognition
A. Effective 11:59 PM on December 31, 2024, the pre-kindergarten paraprofessionals, kindergarten

paraprofessionals, special education paraprofessionals, and the Chemistry Lab Assistant, shall be
removed from the Paraprofessional Unit. (They are being moved to the Tutor Unit effective January
1, 2025.)

B. Effective 12:01 AM on January 1, 2025, amend Article 1 as follows (new language underlined
and deleted language struck):

The Committee hereby recognizes the Association for the purposes of collective bargaining (as
provided by Chapter 150E of the General Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts) as the
sole ad exclusive bargaining representative for all paraprefessienals lunchroom/recess monitors,
van monitors, the Village school year clerical position, and the Middle School schoolyear clerical

position regularly employed by the School District as-deseritbed inthe Agreement for Consent
Election £ : M f Labor Relations-C ‘esion-i- Case Ne, MCR-2175,
dated Septenrber 2945.

3. Effective January 1, 2025, change the name of the unit from “Unit - Paraprofessionals” to
“Operational Support Personnel Unit”.

4. Article 6 - Classification and Pay Plan (pp. 7-9)
A. Effective the later of the following two dates: (i) September 1, 2024 or (ii) the first work day
following ratification of the successor agreement if ratification occurs after September |, 2024, revise
Section A as follows:

Group A Group C Group D
Lunchroom/Reces_ | Van Monitor Village/Middle
s Clerical
Monitor

B. Delete the obsolete Hourly Pay Schedules in Section B and add the following new hourly pay
schedule:

Effective the later of the following two dates: (i) September 1, 2024 or (ii) the first work day

following ratification of the successor agreement if ratification occurs after September 1, 2024:

GROUP | POSITIONS Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 | Step4 | Step5 | Step6 | Step7 | New
A Lunchroom/Recess Eliminate | Eliminate | $16.00 | $16.50 | $17.00 | $17.50 | $18.50 eet
Cc Van Monitor Eliminate | Eliminate | $17.50 | $18.00 | $18.50 | $19.50 | $20.50 | $21.00
D Village/Middle Eliminate | Eliminate | $19.00 | $19.50 | $20.00 | $20.50 | $21.50 | $22.00
School Clerical
Cc Effective the later of the following two dates: (i) September 1, 2024 or (ii) the first work

day following ratification of the successor agreement if ratification occurs after September 1,
2024, amend the following current provisions below the wage table as follows (new language
underlined, deleted language struck):

4 Step advancement occurs on September | of each academic year. To advance to the
next step, the employee must have actually worked at least one hundred (100) days in the

prior academic school year.

The parties agree that effective September 1, 2015, the District shall implement
mandatory direct deposit for all bargaining unit employees. The Association
acknowledges that the Committee has fulfilled its bargaining obligations with regard to
moving from weekly pay to bi-weekly pay. Effective no earlier than the first pay period
at least 90 calendar days following notice to the Association and employees of
implementation, employees shall receive their pay on a bi-weekly basis with electronic
pay advices in lieu of paper paystubs.

Amend Section F New Employee Placement (p. 9) by deleting “other than the seven (7)
years of continuous service step” from the end of the sentence.

3. Article 18: Tuition Reimbursement Program (pp. 16-17)
Amend Section B. 2 of Article 17 as follows (new language underlined):
A receipted copy of the tuition bill or canceled check must be transmitted to the Superintendent as

evidence of the cost of the course; such transmission shall be made no later than September | for an
approved course taken prior to June 30%.

4. Article 10 Temporary Leaves of Absence (p. 10)
Amend Section A as follows (deleted language struck, new language underlined and bold — note
underlined language that is not bold is current underlining):

A. FUNERAL LEAVE

1) In the case of death of the employee’s husband =>vife; spouse/domestic partner, parent,
sibling, child, grandparent, grandchild, parent-in-law, sibling-in-law, sibling of a parent, and
other member of the employee’s immediate household, the School Administration shall grant
the employee a leave of absence without loss of pay for a period of up to five (5) days (i.e.,
the employee does not automatically receive five (5) days) but shall be granted a leave of
absence of between one (1) and five (5) days); such day(s) to be taken within thirty (30)
consecutive days from the date of the death.

5. Article 23- Payroll Deductions (p. 19)
Amend Article 23 by adding the following:

4. Payroll deductions for the MTA Credit Union.

5. Purchase of United States Savings Bonds

6. Premiums for any tax- sheltered annuity plan contracted by the employee pursuant to 26
U.S.C. § 403(b). (Authorization must be given prior to September 30.)

7. Deductions for VOTE provided that at least twenty-five employees in the bargaining unit
authorize and continue to authorize such deductions.

6. Housekeeping

A. Gender Neutral Pronouns. Replace gender pronouns as follows:
Replace “his/her” with “the employee’s”
Replace “him/her” with “the employee”
Replace “he/she” with “the employee”

B. Replace “Association” with “Union” where appropriate.

Cc. Fix agreed-upon typographical and formatting errors while proofreading successor CBA.

7. Article 17 Maternity/Parental Leave and Paid Adoption Leave (pp. 14-16)

Effective with births/adoptions that occur on or after the date that this Memorandum of Agreement is
ratified by the Union membership /insert date of ratification], replace Article 17 (Maternity/Parental
Leave and Paid Adoption Leave) in its entirety with the following:

Article 17
PARENTAL LEAVE

Massachusetts Parental Leave Act (MPLA), M.G. L. chapter 149, section 105D, provides for up
to 8 weeks of leave and the federal Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) provides for up to 12
weeks of leave for an eligible employee for the birth of the employee’s child and for the adoption
of a child as defined by these laws. For employees who are eligible for both MPLA and FMLA
leaves, these leaves run simultaneously with each other and with the paid leaves provided by this
Section. If both parents are employed by the Committee and are eligible for leave benefits
provided by the FMLA and/or MPLA for the birth or adoption of the same child, they shall share
such benefits.

The employee shall provide at least two (2) weeks’ written or email notice to the employee’s
supervisor and to the Committee’s Human Resources office of the employee’s anticipated date of
departure (or as much notice as practicable when the delay in providing notice is beyond the
employee’s control) and the employee’s intention to return to work following the leave.
Parental leave is for:

a. the purpose of giving birth and/or bonding with a newborn child; or

b. the placement of a child under the age of 18, or under the age of 23 if the child is
mentally or physically disabled, for adoption with the employee.

Any employee who is eligible for parental leave pursuant to the MPLA and/or the FMLA for the
birth or adoption of the employee’s child shall be entitled to the following paid leave benefits:

1. Anemployee who is eligible for FMLA may use up to sixty (60) consecutive work
days of leave starting with the first six months following the birth or adoption of the
employee’s child as defined by the FMLA. The employer shall provide paid leave
for the first fifteen (15) days of such leave without deduction from the employee’s
accrued leave and the employee may use the employee’s accumulated paid leave for
the balance of the leave not to exceed forty-five (45) days.

2. Anemployee who is not eligible for FMLA, but who is eligible for MPLA may take
up to eight weeks of leave starting with the birth or adoption of the employee’s child
as defined by the MPLA. The employer shall provide paid leave for the first fifteen
(15) days of such leave without deduction from the employee’s accrued leave and the
employee may use the employee’s accumulated paid leave for the balance of the
leave period.

Employees who are eligible for both FMLA and MPLA for the birth/adoption of the employee’s
child shall receive the benefit above that is greater.

Upon completion of the parental leave, the employee shall be restored to the same or similar
position the employee held when the parental leave commenced. The Committee shall not be
required to restore an employee on parental leave to the previous or similar position if the
employee is subject to layoff, nonrenewal or reassignment.

8. Article 21 Miscellaneous New Section 4:
4. Enrollment of Children of Employee’s Represented by the Association

Children of employees represented by the Union may enroll in the Marblehead Public
Schools, on a tuition free basis, except as hereinafter provided, subject to the following terms
and conditions:

A. The cost of the education shall not exceed 100% of the District’s per pupil cost rate as
determined by the most recent Department of Education report. Costs in excess of said
amount shall be paid by the staff member (or community of the student’s residence.)

B. The Superintendent shall determine the number of slots available each year and the
location thereof and shall advise the Association on or before March 15th for grades 1-
12, and April 15 for kindergarten of each year. Procedures for applying (forms, deadlines
for applications, etc.) shall be developed by the Superintendent. The Superintendent has
discretion in enrolling children of employees into our school system.

C. Once a child has enrolled in the Marblehead Public Schools, it is understood that he/she
may remain in the system, subject to the terms and conditions provided herein including
space availability, so long as the parent continues to be employed by the Marblehead
Public Schools and the child abides by the rules and regulations of the school system.

D. Marblehead will not be responsible for providing transportation to students who are
enrolled pursuant to the provisions of this Article.

E. The Committee reserves the right to terminate this Article upon six (6) months written
notice to the Association.

F. In the event enrollment applications for the same slot exceed the approved slots, the
following shall govern:

Seniority

Example: Three employees represented by the MEA (in any unit) with students in the
fourth grade file applications, The Superintendent determines that there are two
available fourth grade slots. The seniority of the employees involved shall govern
which two students shall be admitted. Seniority for this Section is based on date of
hire.

G. In the event any of the provisions of this Article are found invalid by a Court of
competent jurisdiction or by an agency of the Commonwealth, or in the event a
Complaint were to issue after a finding of probable cause by an Agency, this Article shall
be of no further force and effect.

H. In the event Marblehead were to become a “Choice” community, the provisions of this
Agreement, to the extent required by law, shall be subject to the “Choice” laws and rules
and regulations related thereto.

9. Article 3 (Hours of Work) and Article 19 (Training Reimbursement)
A. Replace the entire Article 19, including the title with the following:
ARTICLE 19
TRAINING

The parties recognize the value of training including but not limited to training on appropriate
techniques to address the social and emotional needs of students. The
Superintendent/designee determines the training for employees each year. While some
training may be mandated, the parties also recognize that employees are in a good position to
identify areas for training or additional training. Therefore, on or before March 15 of each
fiscal year, employees and/or the Union may submit requests for specific areas for training to
their Principal and Superintendent.

B. Amend Article 3 by revising the first sentence of the fourth paragraph as follows (added language
bold):
Each employee who is directed in writing by the Principal or Superintendent to attend
training and/or a meeting(s) outside of his/her regular work day will be paid for the time
he/she is in attendance at each such training and meeting(s).
10. New Appendix B:
Joint Committee on School Safety: Subject to the limitations in the Joint Committee on School
Safety in the MEA Unit A collective bargaining agreement, the MEA and the Committee agree that
employees in positions represented by this MEA unit are eligible for appointment by the MEA to the
Joint Committee on School Safety established by the MEA and the Committee in the Unit A
collective bargaining agreement. ik

11. Article 23
Replace the “HEALTH INSURANCE” section in Article 23 in its entirety with the following:

HEALTH INSURANCE, DENTAL INSURANCE, AND RETIREMENT
Information regarding eligibility for and election of group health insurance, dental insurance, and
retirement contributions is available from the Town of Marblehead Human Resources Office.
(This Article is for information purposes only.)

12. Article 22 — Funding
Delete Article 22 in its entirety and replace with “This Article intentionally left blank.”

This Memorandum of Agreement is subject to ratification by the MEA Paraprofessionals’ Unit and
approval of the Marblehead School Committee and ratification by the MEA Paraprofessionals’ Unit and
approval by the Marblehead School Committee of the Memorandum of Agreement covering the 3-year
period from September 1, 2025-August 31, 2028. Subject to the prior sentence, this Agreement is agreed
to by the bargaining teams for the Paraprofessionals’ Unit and the School Committee on this 26" day of
November 2024.

Bargaining Team for the Bargaining Team for the Paraprofessionals’ Unit
Marblehead School Committee

ye petehid ;

77) ew

