AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE

SCHOOL COMMITTEE
OF THE
TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD

AND THE

MARBLEHEAD EDUCATION ASSOCIATION

Unit — Permanent Substitutes

September 1, 2025 - August 31, 2028
CONTENTS

ARTICLE 1 — RECOGNITION

ARTICLE 2 — GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE

ARTICLE 3 — UNION RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES

ARTICLE 4— WORK YEAR

ARTICLE 5 — WORK DAY

ARTICLE 6 — COMPENSATION

ARTICLE 7A — SICK LEAVE

ARTICLE 7B — COMBINED SICK LEAVE BANK.

ARTICLE 8 - TEMPORARY LEAVES OF ABSENCE

ARTICLE 9 — PROTECTION OF EMPLOYEES

ARTICLE 10 - EMPLOYEE RIGHTS

ARTICLE 1L1A— EMPLOYEE EVALUATION

ARTICLE 11B — PROBATIONARY PERIOD — YEARLY APPOINTMENT, LAYOFF, REDUCTION

IN FORCE AND RECALL

ARTICLE 12 — VACANCIES

ARTICLE 13 —- CAR ALLOWANCE

ARTICLE 14 — PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS

ARTICLE 15 — TUITION REIMBURSEMENT

ARTICLE 16 —- MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

ll

12

12

12

13

16

16

16

17

17
ARTICLE 17 — PAID ADOPTION LEAVE (Effective for births/adoptions that occur prior to November

26, 2024)

20

ARTICLE 17 — PARENTAL LEAVE (Effective for births/adoptions that occur on or after November 26,

2024)
ARTICLE 18 — THIS ARTICLE BLANK
‘ARTICLE 19 — DURATION

APPENDIX A— SALARY SCHEDULE
APPENDIX B — DRUG FREE WORKPLACE

APPENDIX C — JOINT COMMITTEE ON SCHOOL SAFETY

22

23

23

25

26

28
AGREEMENT made and entered into as of November 26, 2024, by and between the
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE, hereinafter referred to as the “Committee” and the
MARBLEHEAD EDUCATION, hereinafter referred to as the “Union”.

ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION

The Comumittee recognizes the Union for the purposes of collective bargaining (as provided by
M.G.L. Chapter {50E) as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative for the following employees of
the Marblehead School System:

All permanent substitutes, excluding all other employees.

Permanent substitutes as used herein is defined to include only those employees who receive an
annual appointment, subject to the Committee’s statutory rights, but without a specific teaching schedule

or assignment except as determined from day to day or from time to time.

ARTICLE 2
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE

Any grievance, which may arise between the parties hereto, shall be presented in the following
manner and order and within the time limits set forth herein. A grievance is defined as a claim concerning

the meaning or application of any of the express provisions of this Agreement.

Step 1. The employee, or a representative of the Union shall take up the grievance with the employee’s
immediate supervisor within ten (10) school days (14 calendar days from 6/20 to 9/1) of the date
of the grievance or of the date the employee first acquired knowledge or should have acquired
knowledge of its occurrence. Such grievance shall be submitted in writing. The employee’s
immediate supervisor shall attempt to adjust the matter and shall respond within ten (10) calendar

days after the submission of the grievance to the immediate supervisor in Step 1.

Step 2. If the grievance has not been settled in Step 1, it shall be taken up with the Superintendent, or his
designated representative, within seven (7) calendar days after the supervisor’s response is due or
received, whichever is earlier. Such grievance shall be submitted in writing. The Superintendent
shall respond in writing within ten (10) calendar days after the submission of the grievance to the

Superintendent in Step 2.
Step 3. (Not applicable to grievances involving discipline.) If the grievance is still unresolved, the Union
may, within ten (10) calendar days after the reply of the Superintendent is due or received,
whichever is earlier, submit the grievance to the Committee. The Committee shall meet with the
aggrieved employee and representative of the Union within twenty-one (21) calendar days after

receipt of the written grievance in an effort to resolve the matter.

Step 4. If the grievance cannot be resolved by and between the Committee and the aggrieved employee
and the Union within twenty-one (21) calendar days after the meeting held in step 3, then the
matter may be submitted to arbitration within fourteen (14) calendar days thereafter by either the

Committee or the Union pursuant to the Labor Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration

Association.

Failure of the grievant to present a grievance within and to advance it in accordance with any of
the time limits set forth in the grievance procedure shall constitute a resolution of the grievance against
the grievant. The time limits set forth herein may be enlarged by the written consent of the parties hereto.
In the event any of the parties to whom the grievance is presented as hereinbefore provided fails to

respond within the time limits provided, it shall be deemed a denial of the grievance.

The arbitrator’s authority shall be limited to matters involving the interpretation and application
of the provisions of this Agreement. The arbitrator may not modify, amend, delete or add to the terms of
this Agreement. Within the time limits of the arbitrator’s authority, the decision of the arbitrator, to the
extent provided by law, shall be final and binding. The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne

equally by the parties. No employee shall have the right to require arbitration.

A grievance affecting a group of employees may be submitted in writing to the Superintendent

directly and the processing of such grievance shall commence at Step 2.

ARTICLE 3
UNION RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES

A. Whenever any representative of the Union or any employee participates during working hours in

negotiations, grievance proceedings, conferences or meetings scheduled by the school

department, the employee shall suffer no loss of pay.

B. The Union and its representatives shall have the right to use school buildings at all reasonable
hours for meetings. For afternoon business meetings, the principal of the building in question

shall be notified in advance of the time and place of all such meetings to assure that there are no
conflicts. Standard procedures for use of school facilities will be followed for all evening

meetings.

G, The Union shall have, in each school building, the use of an appropriately placed bulletin board in
each faculty lounge. The Union shall also be assigned adequate space on the bulletin board in the
central office for Union notices. Copies of all materials to be posted on such bulletin boards shall

be given to the building principal, but no approval shall be required.

D. The Union shall have the right to use the interschool mail facilities and school mailboxes in

accordance with standard procedures.

E. The President of the Union will be permitted to perform the duties of President during the

employee’s non-working time.

ARTICLE 4
WORK YEAR

The work year shall not exceed 182 days, including two days of orientation before school starts

and 180 days meeting present state requirements with students.

ARTICLE 5
WORK DAY

1. Employees shall be present at school fifteen minutes before the official starting time for students
and shall remain, except as hereinafter provided, fifteen minutes after the official student

dismissal time.

2 Employees shall attend all teacher staff meetings. In addition, the principal of the school at which
the employee is teaching, or the Superintendent, in their discretion, may require the employees’
attendance beyond the aforementioned fifteen minutes for purposes other than teacher staff
meetings but not longer than the Unit A teacher dismissal time. Demands by the Superintendent
and/or Principal to remain beyond the aforementioned fifteen minutes for purposes other than

teacher staff meetings shall not be unreasonably made.

Employees may be required to perform the same supervisory type duties as members of Unit A.

Employees shall have a daily duty free lunch period of from 25 to 50 minutes long (the specific

length of time dependent on the conditions in each school) scheduled within the regular work day,
during which time they may leave the building on providing notification to the office of said

school.

ARTICLE 6
COMPENSATION

There shall be attached to and considered a part of this Agreement a pay schedule marked

“Appendix A.” Employees shall be compensated in accordance with said schedule Direct Deposit is

mandated for all employees.

ARTICLE 7A
SICK LEAVE

Employees who are regularly scheduled to work five days per week shall be entitled to accrue 1.5
sick leave days per month of active employment each school year not to exceed fifteen (15) days.

Employees shall be entitled to accumulate sick leave to a maximum of sixty (60) days.

In the event an employee were to be appointed by the Committee to a position covered by the
Unit A Agreement between the Committee and the Union, the employee shall be entitled to carry over
into Unit A the employee’s accumulated sick leave. A running account of sick days shall be recorded on

the bi-weekly pay stub as soon as the technology is available to do so.

ARTICLE 7B
COMBINED SICK LEAVE BANK

Effective with the start of the 2025-2026 school year, there shall be established a Sick Leave
Bank for employees covered by the Marblehead Education Association Instructional Assistants Unit,

Operational Support Personnel Unit, Custodians Unit and Permanent Substitutes Unit with the following

rules and regulations.

1. The Sick Leave Bank is a benefit available to support employees in positions represented by the
bargaining units who due to a prolonged serious illness, have exhausted their accumulated sick,

personal, or other leave time and may require additional time to recover from their illness.

a. The purpose of Sick Leave Bank is to support members who are experiencing the

devasting effects of a serious, long-term illness or injury. It is not designed to replace or
extend accrued sick time for individual employees and it should not be used for purposes

for which it was not intended.

Initial Establishment of Sick Leave Bank Criteria

Beginning on the first day of the 2025-2026 work year, all employees in positions
represented by the MEA in the Instructional Assistants Unit, Operational Support
Personnel Unit, Custodians Unit, and Permanent Substitute Unit will be given the
opportunity to be members of the Sick Leave Bank by donating one (1) of their sick days
to the Sick Leave Bank each school year.

New Hire and/or Member Buy in AFTER initial Establishment of the Sick Leave Bank

New hires have thirty (30) calendar days to join the Sick Leave Bank from the date of
employment by donating one (1) of their sick days to the Sick Leave Bank.

Current employees who did NOT buy into the Sick Leave Bank when it was established
and employees who did not elect to join the Sick Leave Bank within thirty calendar days
from the date of employment will have thirty (30) calendar days from the start of the new
school year to buy into the Sick Leave Bank by donating two (2) of their sick days to the
Sick Leave Bank.

Current employees who buy into the Sick Leave Bank after the initial establishment and
new employees who buy into the Sick Leave Bank after thirty calendar days from the
date of employment will be eligible to draw from the Sick Leave Bank AFTER one (1)
school year of membership in the Sick Leave Bank.

Replenishment of the Sick Leave Bank

a.

The maximum number of days in the Sick Leave Bank shall be one hundred (100) and
the minimum number of days shall be thirty (30).

When the number falls below thirty (30) days during a school year, all current members
of the Sick Leave Bank who have completed their probationary period will donate one (1)
day. If the number of days remaining in the Sick Leave Bank falls below thirty (30) days

again in the same school year, members who have the maximum number of sick leave
days will each be asked to contribute one (1) additional day to replenish the Sick Leave
Bank. ;

c. Members of the Sick Leave Bank who retire from the Marblehead Public Schools may
donate up to ten (10) days to the Sick Leave Bank.

d. Any Sick Leave Bank days that are not used in one school year shall be carried over to

the next school year subject to section 4. a) above.
Opting Out of Membership in the Sick Leave Bank.

a. Members of the Sick Leave Bank must notify the payroll office in writing at least fifteen
(15) days prior to the start of the new work year if they want to discontinue their
membership in the Sick Leave Bank. Failure to notify in writing will automatically

continue membership in the Sick Leave Bank for the work year.

Administration of the Sick Leave Bank

a, A Sick Leave Bank Committee of four (4) members will be established between the
Marblehead Education Association (“Association”) and the Marblehead Public Schools
The Sick Leave Bank Committee will consist of two (2) members designated by the
School Committee to serve at the School Committee’s discretion and two (2) members

designated by the MEA President/Co-Presidents.

b. The Sick Leave Bank Committee shall determine the eligibility for the use of the Sick

Leave Bank and the amount of leave to be granted.

6. Awards of benefits from the Sick Leave Bank require a majority vote of the full Sick

Leave Bank Committee.

d. In the event of a tie vote, eligibility will be determined by the School Committee where
the Marblehead Education Association will represent the member requesting days from

the Sick Leave Bank in executive session.

e. Any initial grant of sick leave by the Sick Leave Bank Committee shall not exceed thirty
(30) days. If need continues, reapplication to the Sick Leave Bank may be made for
further extensions up to a maximum of thirty (30) days each. Except as provided

hereafter in this paragraph, no more than ninety (90) days may be granted by the Sick
Leave Bank Committee to any individual for a single illness or accident. The Sick Leave
Bank Committee agrees to give due consideration to those situations of unusual
circumstances and for hardship arising from prolonged illness or accident when an
employee’s accrued sick leave and ninety (90) days from the Sick Leave Bank
Committee have been exhausted. Such situations will be brought to attention of the Sick
Leave Bank Committee by the Association only, whereupon the Sick Leave Bank
Committee may authorize additional days from the Sick Leave Bank but not to exceed

the balance of days in the Sick Leave Bank.

f. A member who has received a grant from the Sick Leave Bank, upon their return to
regular duties during the work year, will receive up to five (5) sick leave days from the
bank to be used in the event of illness during the remainder of the school year. Days not

used will be returned to the Sick Leave Bank on the last day of school in the work year.
Criteria to Request Days from the Sick Leave Bank.

a. Subject to the provisions of this Article, the Sick Leave Bank Committee shall utilize the
following criteria in administering the Sick Leave Bank and in determining eligibility and

amount of leave:

i. Adequate medical evidence, including diagnosis and prognosis, of serious and/or
prolonged illness or injury and expected date of return. This information shall
remain confidential with the Sick Leave Bank Committee. The Sick Leave Bank
Committee may require a second opinion from an independent medical examiner.

The cost of the independent medical examination will be borne by the employer.

ii. Access to the Sick Leave Bank may be barred because of the history of prior

usage or annual and accumulated sick leave.

iii. In order for a member to be eligible for the Sick Leave Bank benefits in a
successive school year, the members must return to work for a period of time at
least as long as the period for which the member received benefits. The Sick

Leave Bank Committee may waive this provision in extraordinary circumstances.

10
Sick Leave Bank Binding Agreement.

a. This Article is not subject to grievance and arbitration. The decision of the Sick Leave
Bank Committee with respect to eligibility and entitlement shall be final and binding and

not subject to appeal except for reconsider to the Committee itself.

ARTICLE 8
TEMPORARY LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITH PAY

Each employee shall be entitled to the following non-accumulative leaves of absence with full

pay each school year.

A.

Each employee shall be entitled to two (2) paid personal days per contract year for imperative
personal, legal business, or imperative household or imperative family matters which necessitates
the employee’s presence and cannot be scheduled outside of work hours. The employee will give
at least 72 hours of notice, when possible. Personal days cannot be taken on days immediately

preceding or following holidays or vacations. Exceptions can be granted by the Superintendent

following written request.

FUNERAL LEAVE

In the case of death of the employee’s spouse/domestic partner, parent, sibling, child,
grandparent, grandchild, parent-in-law, sibling-in-law, sibling of parent, and other member of the
employee’s immediate household, the School Administration shall grant the employee a leave of
absence without loss of pay for a period of up to five (5) days (i.e., the employee does not
automatically receive five (5) days but shall be granted a leave of absence of between one (1) and

five (5) days); such day(s) to be taken within thirty (30) consecutive days from the date of the
death.

One day for the purpose of visiting other schools or attending meetings or conferences of an

educational nature.

One day if the absence is caused by the serious illness of the employee’s parent or the serious

illness of a member of the employee’s immediate household, if the employee’s presence is

necessary.

ARTICLE 9
PROTECTION OF EMPLOYEES
Employees shall not be required to work under unsafe or hazardous conditions or to perform
tasks, which endanger the health, safety, or well-being of themselves (excluding any risk inherent
in the job).

The Union shall have the right, upon request, to meet with the Administration to discuss safety

matters.

The Committee agrees that the Workmen’s Compensation provisions of Chapter 152, Section 69
General Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and as established by the Town of
Marblehead providing for benefits to employees and their dependents in the event of incapacity or

death arising out of employment shall be accepted and applied to members as so provided.

The Committee agrees that the employees are indemnified by the Town of Marblehead to the
extent required by law as provided in Chapter 41, Section 100C of the General Laws of the

Commonwealth of Massachusetts and as established by the Town of Marblehead.

ARTICLE 10
EMPLOYEE RIGHTS

Whenever any employee is required by the Superintendent, an administrator, or the Committee to
appear before them concerning any matter which could directly and adversely affect their
employment, the employee shall, upon request, be entitled to have a representative of the Union

present.
No reprisal of any kind shall be taken against any employee for participating in any grievance.

No employee shall be prevented from wearing pins or other identification of membership in the

Union or other professional affiliations.

ARTICLE 11A
EMPLOYEE EVALUATION

All formal evaluation of the work performance of an employee shall be conducted with openness

and with the full knowledge of the employee.

An employee shall be given a copy of any visit or evaluation report prepared by the employee’s
evaluator. Employees who question the validity of an evaluation are entitled to another evaluation

by a different evaluator appointed by the Superintendent. The evaluator shall meet with the

12
employee to discuss the evaluation report at a mutually convenient time normally within two (2)

days after the employee’s evaluation.

C. An employee shall have the right to review the contents of the employee’s personnel folders,
excluding confidential recommendations for employment in or advancement in the Marblehead

School System. An employee shall be entitled to have a representative of the Union accompany

the employee during such a review.

D: Any employee shall have the right to submit a written comment on the contents of the employee’s

personnel folder and the comments will be placed in the employee’s personnel folder.

ARTICLE 11B
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
YEARLY APPOINTMENT LAYOFF, REDUCTION IN FORCE AND RECALL

Each new employee and each employee hired after a break in service shall be considered as a
probationary employee until the employee shall have actually worked three full school years.
Probationary employees may be disciplined, discharged or otherwise terminated in the sole discretion of
the Superintendent/designee and such action shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration

provisions of this Agreement.

Probationary employees hired by the Marblehead School District shall be considered hired for
one (1) school year term only. (The school year in which the employee commences work.) Similarly,
reappointments shall be for only one (1) school year for the following two (2) consecutive full school
years. The decision of the Superintendent/designee as to whether to reappoint the probationary employee
each of the first three full school years shall be in the sole discretion of the Superintendent/designee, and
the Superintendent’s/designee’s decision thereon shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration

provisions of this Agreement.

Probationary employees who have received a satisfactory evaluation will be considered for
employment in the succeeding year and need not submit an application unless a different position from
that previously occupied is desired. Probationary employees shall be notified, in writing, by the
Marblehead School district by June 15th as to their appointment for the next academic year. If there is to
be a reduction in the number of employees, the School District will attempt to give notice by June 15th.
Probationary employees who are not notified by the Marblehead School District by the last day of school

as to whether they have been reappointed are deemed not reappointed.

13
Employees who have not worked 75 work days may be dismissed without prior notice. The
Superintendent/designee shall provide written (or email) notice of the Superintendent’s/designee’s intent
to dismiss employees who have worked more than 75 work days. Such notice shall include the reason(s)
for the dismissal and provide the employee with an opportunity to meet with the Superintendent/designee
within ten calendar days. Employees who have not completed their probationary period are employees at
will. Disciplinary action taken against any employee after expiration of the employee’s probationary

period shall be subject to a just cause standard.

Examples:

L. Discharge or other disciplinary action within the probationary period-not arbitral.

2 Probationary employee not reappointed - not arbitral.

3. Employee discharged (disciplinary) subsequent to probationary period- just cause
standard.

4. Employee terminated during year (non-disciplinary) not arbitral.

The Superintendent/designee, in the event of a contemplated reduction in force, will meet with

the Association to discuss the contemplated reduction.

Probationary employees will be laid off prior to employees who have completed their
probationary period provided that the employee who has completed the probationary period has the

experience, skill, and training to perform the work being performed by the probationary employee.

In making a decision regarding the layoff or reduction in force of an employee(s) who has/have

completed the probationary period, the Superintendent/designee shall consider the following criteria:

1. Need;

2: Quality and quantity of performance as determined by the most recent evaluation;
2 Educational background including degrees, and licenses;

4. Experience with subject matter;

5. Experience with grade level(s);

14
6. Experience with particular student(s);

7. Training;
8. Skills including but not limited to language skills, ASL, RBT certification, Wilson or OG
certification;

9. DESE license;
10. Best interest of students.

The Superintendent/designee may assign whatever weight the Superintendent/designee desires to
the aforementioned criteria provided the Superintendent’s/designee’s decision is based on said criteria and
provided that the Superintendent/designee considers the best interests of students in the school or District.
The Superintendent/designee need not review all of the above criteria. When the Superintendent/designee
determines that the qualifications of employees, based on some or all of the criteria above, are no

different, seniority in the unit shall be the determining factor.

Employees who have been laid off shall remain on a recall list for an 18-month period from the
date of the layoff notice. The Superintendent/designee may use the criteria listed above in determining the
order of recall; however, if the Superintendent/designee determines that the qualifications of employees

based on criteria above are no different, the Superintendent may use seniority to break the tie.

The laid off employee shall provide the District’s Human Resources office with a current email
address for the recall period. The Superintendent/designee shall notify an employee by email of a recall,
and the employee shall have five calendar days to accept a recall notice by email. Failure to respond to a

recall notice within five calendar days shall be deemed a rejection of the offer and the employee shall be

removed from the recall list.

Recall notices will be sent by email to the laid off employee’s last personal email address in the

District’s records with a copy of such notice being emailed to the Association.

ARTICLE 12
VACANCIES

Proper notice of all vacancies in the bargaining unit shall be given to the Union and posted in

appropriate buildings.

15
ARTICLE 13
CAR ALLOWANCE

Employees who are required to use their automobiles in the performance of their duties and

responsibilities will be reimbursed for all such travel (commuting excluded) at the reimbursable rate

determined by the Town of Marblehead.

ARTICLE 14
PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS

The School Committee shall provide that, whenever duly authorized by an employee on a form or

forms approved by the Committee, payroll deductions on behalf of such employee shall be made every

payday and paid over in accordance with such form or forms for any or all of the following purposes:

lL.

Purchase of United States Savings Bonds.

2. Premiums under the Town of Marblehead Employee’s Group Insurance Program

3. Premiums for any tax sheltered annuity plan contracted by the employee pursuant to 26
U.S.C. § 403(b). (Authorization must be given prior to September 30.)

4. Dues for membership in the Marblehead Education Association, Massachusetts Teachers’
Association, and the National Education Association from employees authorizing
deductions by October 15 with dues deductions to be paid in equal installments from the
first pay check in November and continuing for the balance of the school year.

5. Payroll deductions for the MTA Credit Union.

6. Payroll deductions for the Marblehead Municipal Employees’ Federal Credit Union.

7. Deductions for VOTE provided that at least twenty-five employees in the bargaining unit
authorize and continue to authorize such deductions.

ARTICLE 15
TUITION REIMBURSEMENT
tL, Procedure. College courses, workshops, continuing education unit programs or in-service

programs may be approved by the Superintendent. Under normal circumstances, request for

16
approval must be made in writing, on a form supplied by the Superintendent in advance of the

start of the course. Courses must be approved by the Superintendent.

Reimbursement. The employee shall pay the entire tuition cost of approved courses and will be

reimbursed under the following terms and conditions:

A. The employee must obtain a grade of B- or better or evidence of receiving the total

Continuing Education Units for the course, shall be satisfactory.

B. A receipted copy of the tuition bill or canceled check must be submitted to the
Superintendent as evidence of the cost of the course; such submission shall be made no

later than September | for an approved course taken prior to June 30°.

G. Within thirty (30) days after receipt of items 1 and 2 of this section (reimbursement), the
Committee shall reimburse the permanent substitute for the permanent substitute’s out of
pocket tuition payment up to six hundred dollars ($600.00) per fiscal year. The total
reimbursement by the Committee in any fiscal year (July 1— June 30) shall not exceed six

thousand dollars ($6,000).

ARTICLE 16
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

The Committee and the Union agree that there shall be no discrimination, and that all practices,
procedures and policies of the school system shall clearly exemplify that there is no
discrimination in the hiring, training, assignment, promotion, transfer or in the application or
administration of this Agreement on the basis of race, creed, color, religion, national origin, sex,

domicile or marital status.

If any provision of this Agreement or any application of this Agreement to any employee or
group of employees is held to be contrary to law, then such provisions or application shall not be
deemed valid and subsisting, except to the extent permitted by law, but all other provisions or

applications shall continue in full force and effect.

Once employed, any individual contract between the Marblehead School District and an
individual employee heretofore or hereafter executed shall be subject to and consistent with the
spirit and terms and conditions of this Agreement. If an individual contract contains any language

inconsistent with this Agreement, this Agreement during its duration, shall be controlling.

17
10.

It shall be unlawful for any employee to engage in, induce, or encourage any strike, work

stoppage, slowdown or withholding of services by such employee.

Requests for leave to attend conferences of an educational nature shall be made to the

Superintendent and shall be subject to his approval.

The Union acknowledges that the Committee has fulfilled Its bargaining obligations with regard
to the Drug Policy attached hereto as Appendix B. No challenge shall be made with regard to the

adoption and implementation of said policy by the Committee/Administration.

The language of this Agreement shall be interpreted subject to and in conformity with the
Education Reform Act of 1993 and any provision of this Agreement inconsistent with the

Education Reform Act shall be deemed amended so as to be in compliance with such Act.

BI-WEEKLY PAY, DIRECT DEPOSIT, AND ELECTRONIC PAY ADVICES

The Union acknowledges that the Committee has fulfilled its bargaining obligations with regard
to moving from weekly pay to bi-weekly pay. Effective no earlier than the first pay period at least
90 calendar days following notice to the Union and employees of implementation, employees
shall receive their pay on a bi-weekly basis through direct deposit with electronic pay advices in

lieu of paper paystubs.

HEALTH INSURANCE, DENTAL INSURANCE, AND RETIREMENT:
Information regarding eligibility for and election of group health insurance, dental insurance, and
retirement contributions is available from the Town of Marblehead Human Resources Office.

(This Article is for information purposes only.)

Enrollment of Children of Employee’s Represented by the Union
Children of employees represented by the Union may enroll in the Marblehead Public Schools, on

a tuition free basis, except as hereinafter provided, subject to the following terms and conditions:

A. The cost of the education shall not exceed 100% of the District’s per pupil cost rate as
determined by the most recent Department of Education report. Costs in excess of said

amount shall be paid by the staff member (or community of the student’s residence).

B. The Superintendent shall determine the number of slots available each year and the
location thereof and shall advise the Union on or before March 15th for grades 1-12, and

April 15 for kindergarten of each year. Procedures for applying (forms, deadlines for
applications, etc.) shall be developed by the Superintendent. The Superintendent has

discretion in enrolling children of employees into our school system.

CG Once a child has enrolled in the Marblehead Public Schools, it is understood that the
child may remain in the system, subject to the terms and conditions provided herein
including space availability, so long as the parent continues to be employed by the
Marblehead Public Schools and the child abides by the rules and regulations of the school

system.

D. Marblehead will not be responsible for providing transportation to students who are

enrolled pursuant to the provisions of this Article.

E. The Committee reserves the right to terminate this Article upon six (6) months written

notice to the Union.

FE In the event enrollment applications for the same slot exceed the approved slots, the
following shall govern:
Seniority
Example: Three employees represented by the MEA (in any unit) with students in the
fourth grade file applications, The Superintendent determines that there are two available
fourth grade slots. The seniority of the employees involved shall govern which two

students shall be admitted. Seniority for this Section is based on date of hire.

G. In the event any of the provisions of this Article are found invalid by a Court of
competent jurisdiction or by an agency of the Commonwealth, or in the event a
Complaint were to issue after a finding of probable cause by an Agency, this Article shall

be of no further force and effect.

H. In the event Marblehead were to become a “Choice” community, the provisions of this

Agreement, to the extent required by law, shall be subject to the “Choice” laws and rules

and regulations related thereto.

ARTICLE 17
PAID ADOPTION LEAVE

This Article 17 effective for births/adoptions that occur prior to November 26, 2024.

19
(APPLICABLE ONLY TO PERMANENT SUBSTITUTES WHO HAVE BEEN ACTIVELY
EMPLOYED FOR AT LEAST THREE CONSECUTIVE YEARS IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING
THEIR REQUEST FOR PAID ADOPTION LEAVE (HEREINAFTER CALLED “ELIGIBLE SERVICE
EMPLOYEES”)

An eligible service employee shall be entitled to paid adoption leave, subject to the following

terms and conditions:

1. Maximum amount of paid adoption leave: 4 weeks (20 workdays).
(Lost work time within four weeks following the eligible service employee receiving actual

custody of the child.)

2. Deduction from sick leave: The leave shall be deducted from the eligible service employee’s sick
leave (annual, if sufficient, otherwise accumulated). In the event the eligible service employee
does not have sufficient sick leave to the employee’s credit, the eligible service employee shall

not be eligible for paid adoption leave to the extent of the deficiency.

3: Age of adoptive child: The child must be below six years of age.
4. Purpose of leave: To make arrangements for and to care for the adopted child.
5 Tf both parents are eligible service employees in the Marblehead school system: In the event both

parents are eligible service employees in the Marblehead School system, either parent may
request the paid adoption leave but the total amount of such paid adoption leave shall not exceed

the maximum of four weeks.

20
6. Request for Paid Adoption Leave — Time of Leave

A. The leave shall commence, except as hereinafter provided in F3, upon receiving actual

custody of the child, or earlier if necessary to fulfill the requirements of adoption.

B. The eligible service employee shall give, to the extent possible, at least two (2) weeks
written notice to the Superintendent of the employee’s anticipated date of departure and

the employee’s intent to return.

Cc. In the event de facto custody is taken during any of the school vacations during the
school year (Christmas, February or April vacation), the leave shall commence on the
first workday following such school vacation. This provision shall only be applicable to
school vacations during the school year. If de facto custody were taken in July, the

eligible service employee would not be eligible for paid adoption leave.

7. Family and Medical Leave Act

If and to the extent the eligible service employees are entitled to leave under the Family and

Medical Leave Act, such time shall be charged against the adoption leave.

8. Eligible Service Employees on Maternity Leave
An eligible service employee on maternity leave shall be entitled to paid parental leave subject to
the same terms and conditions applicable to paid adoption leave, except as follows:
The amount of the paid parental leave shall not exceed the following: Four weeks less any paid
sick leave taken by the eligible service employees on maternity leave.
Example: An eligible service employee on an eight-week unpaid maternity leave is disabled for
five days and utilizes five days of sick leave. The eligible service employees, in such case, would
then be entitled to 15 days of paid parental leave subject to the same terms and conditions

applicable to paid adoption leave.

9. This paid adoption leave Article shall expire and be of no further force and effect on August 30,
2001.
ARTICLE 17
PARENTAL LEAVE

This Article 17 replaces the prior Article 17 and is effective with births/adoptions that occur on or

after November 26, 2024.

21
Massachusetts Parental Leave Act (MPLA), M.G.L. chapter 149, section 105D, provides for up to

8 weeks of leave and the federal Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) provides for up to 12 weeks of leave

for an eligible employee for the birth of the employee’s child and for the adoption of a child as defined by

these laws. For employees who are eligible for both MPLA and FMLA leaves, these leaves run

simultaneously with each other and with the paid leaves provided by this Section. If both parents are

employed by the Committee and are eligible for leave benefits provided by the FMLA and/or MPLA for

the birth or adoption of the same child, they shall share such benefits.

The employee shall provide at least two (2) weeks’ written or email notice to the employee’s

supervisor and to the Committee’s Human Resources office of the employee’s anticipated date of

departure (or as much notice as practicable when the delay in providing notice is beyond the employee’s

control) and the employee’s intention to return to work following the leave.

Parental leave is for:

b.

The purpose of giving birth and/or bonding with a newborn child; or

The placement of a child under the age of 18, or under the age of 23 if the child is
mentally or physically disabled, for adoption with the employee.

Any employee who is eligible for parental leave pursuant to the MPLA and/or the FMLA for the

birth or adoption of the employee’s child shall be entitled to the following paid leave benefits:

I.

An employee who is eligible for FMLA may use up to sixty (60) consecutive work days
of leave starting with the first six months following the birth or adoption of the
employee’s child as defined by the FMLA. The employer shall provide paid leave for the
first fifteen (15) days of such leave without deduction from the employee’s accrued leave
and the employee may use the employee’s accumulated paid leave for the balance of the

leave not to exceed forty-five (45) days.

An employee who is not eligible for FMLA, but who is eligible for MPLA may take up to
eight weeks of leave starting with the birth or adoption of the employee’s child as defined
by the MPLA. The employer shall provide paid leave for the first fifteen (15) days of
such leave without deduction from the employee’s accrued leave and the employee may

use the employee’s accumulated paid leave for the balance of the leave period.

22
Employees who are eligible for both FMLA and MPLA for the birth/adoption of the employee’s

child shall receive the benefit above that is greater.

Upon completion of the parental leave, the employee shall be restored to the same or similar
position the employee held when the parental leave commenced. The Committee shall not be required to
restore an employee on parental leave to the previous or similar position if the employee is subject to

layoff, nonrenewal or reassignment.

ARTICLE 18
This Article intentionally left blank

ARTICLE 19
DURATION

This Agreement shall become effective September 1, 2025, except as otherwise provided herein,
and shall continue in full force and effect until August 31, 2028, except as otherwise provided herein.
Negotiations for a successor Agreement shall begin no later than thirty (30) days, but in no event earlier
than December 15, 2027, after written notice by either party of its’ desire to commence negotiations for a
successor Agreement. The Committee and the Union, upon receipt of said notice, shall make mutually

satisfactory arrangements to engage in negotiations for a successor Agreement.

23
Marblehead School Committee

san std edutba—

Chairperson

Marblehead Education Association

SOO >—

President

ole | Uy

Date

6/19 [oF

ofl? 25

Date

24
APPENDIX A
WORK YEAR SALARY SCHEDULE

Effective Date | Step 2 Step3 | Step4 | Step5 | Step6 | Step7 | Step 8
September 1, Eliminate | $30,60 | $31,70 | $33,50 | $33,90 | $35,000 | Not
2025 0 0 0 0 Applicabl
e

September 1, Not $31,20 | $32,30 | $34,40 | $35,00 | $36,100 | $37,200
2026 Applicabl | 0 0 0 0

e
September 1, Not $31,98 | $33,10 | $35,26 | $35,87 | $37,003 | $38,130
2027 Applicabl | 0 8 0 5

e

25
APPENDIX B
DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY

File: GBEC

The School District will provide a drug-free workplace and certifies that it will:

Notify all employees in writing that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing,
possession or use of a controlled substance, is prohibited in the District’s workplace, and specify

the actions that will be taken against employees for violation of such prohibitions.

Establish a drug-free awareness program to inform employees about the dangers of drug abuse in
the workplace; the District’s policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace; and available drug
counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; and the penalty that may be

imposed on employees for drug abuse violations occurring in the workplace.

Make it a requirement that each employee whose employment is funded by a federal grant be

given a copy of the statement as required.

Notify the employee in the required statement that as a condition of employment under the grant,
the employee will abide by the terms of the statement, and will notify the District of any criminal
drug statute conviction for a violation occurring in the workplace no later than five days after

such conviction.

Notify the federal agency within ten days after receiving notice from an employee or otherwise

receiving notice of such conviction.

Take one of the following actions within 30 days of receiving notice with respect to any employee
who is so convicted; take appropriate personnel action against such an employee, up to and
including termination; or require such employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse
assistance or rehabilitation program approved for such purposes by a federal, state or local health

law enforcement, or other appropriate agency.

Make a good faith effort to continue to maintain a drug-free workplace through implementation

of all the provisions of this policy.

LEGAL REFS.: The Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988

26
CROSS REFS.: JICH, Alcohol Use by Students
SOURCE: MASC/Marblehead

Marblehead Public Schools Approved 10/18/2018

27
APPENDIX C
JOINT COMMITTEE ON SCHOOL SAFETY

Subject to the limitations in the Joint Committee on School Safety in the MEA Unit A collective
bargaining agreement, the MEA and the Committee agree that employees in positions represented by this
MEA unit are eligible for appointment by the MEA to the Joint Committee on School Safety established
by the MEA and the Committee in the Unit A collective bargaining agreement.

28
