              AGREEMENT


             BETWEEN THE


        SCHOOL COMMITTEE
             OFTHE
       TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD


                AND THE


MARBLEHEAD EDUCATION ASSOCIATION


     Unit - Permanent Substitutes


    September 1, 2021 - August 31, 2024




                                          1
                                                       CONTENTS




ARTICLE I - RECOGNITION ..................................................................................... 3
ARTICLE 2 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE ................................................................ 3
ARTICLE 3 -ASSOCIATION RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES .....................................4
ARTICLE 4 - WORK YEAR ........................................................................................ 5
ARTICLE 5 - WORK DAY .......................................................................................... 5
ARTICLE 6 - COMPENSATION ................................................................................. 6
ARTICLE 7 - SICK LEAVE ......................................................................................... 6
ARTICLE 8 - TEMPORARY LEAVES OF ABSENCE ............................................. 6
ARTICLE 9 - PROTECTION OF EMPLOYEES ........................................................ 7
ARTICLE 10- EMPLOYEE RIGHTS .......................................................................... 7
ARTICLE 11 - EMPLOYEE EVALUATION ..............................................................8
ARTICLE 12- VACANCIES .......................................................................................8
ARTICLE 13 - CAR ALLOWANCE ...........................................................................8
ARTICLE 14-PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS ...................................................................8
ARTICLE 15 - TUITION REIMBURSEMENT ........................................................... 9
ARTICLE 16 -.MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS .................................................... 9
ARTICLE 17 - PAID ADOPTION LEAVE ............................................................... 10
ARTICLE 18 - FUNDING .......................................................................................... 12
ARTICLE 19 - DURATION ....................................................................................... 12


APPENDIX A- SALARY SCHEDULE .................................................................... 13
APPENDIX B - DRUG FREE WORKPLACE ........................................................... 14




                                                                                                                     2
         AGREEMENT made and entered into as of the DATE by and between the
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE, hereinafter referred to as the "Committee" and the
MARBLEHEAD EDUCATION, hereinafter referred to as the "Association".

                                            ARTICLE 1
                                          RECOGNITION

       The Committee recognizes the Association for the purposes of collective bargaining (as
provided by M.G.L. Chapter l 50E) as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative for the
following employees of the Marblehead School System:

               All permanent substitutes, excluding all other employees.

       Permanent substitutes as used herein is defined to include only those employees who
receive an annual appointment, subject to the Committee's statutory rights, but without a specific
teaching schedule or assignment except as determined from day to day or from time to time.

                                        ARTICLE 2
                                  GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE

Any grievance, which may arise between the parties hereto, shall be presented in the following
manner and order and within the time limits set forth herein. A grievance is defined as a claim
concerning the meaning or application of any of the express provisions of this Agreement.


Step I. The employee, or a representative of the Association shall take up the grievance with the
       employee's immediate supervisor within ten (10) school days (14 calendar -days from
       6/20 to 9/1) of the date of the grievance or of the date the employee first acquired
       knowledge or should have acquired knowledge of its occurrence. Such grievance shall be
       submitted in writing. The employee's immediate supervisor shall attempt to adjust the
       matter and shall respond within ten (10) calendar days after the submission of the
       grievance to him in Step I.
Step 2. If the grievance has not been settled in Step 1, it shall be taken up with the
       Superintendent, or his designated representative, within seven (7) calendar days after the
       supervisor's response is due or received, whichever is earlier. Such grievance shall be
       submitted in writing. The Superintendent shall respond in writing within ten (10) calendar
       days after the submission of the grievance to him in Step 2.
Step 3 (Not applicable to grievances involving discipline.) If the grievance is still unresolved,
       the Association may, within ten (10) calendar days after the reply of the Superintendent is



                                                                                                     3
       due or received, whichever is earlier, submit the grievance to the Committee. The
       Committee shall meet with the aggrieved employee and representative of the Association
       within twenty-one (2 1) calendar days after receipt of the written grievance in an effort to
       resolve the matter.
Step 4. If the grievance cannot be resolved by and between the Committee and the aggrieved
       employee and the Association within twenty-one (2 1) calendar days after the meeting
       held in step 3, then the matter may be submitted to arbitration within fourteen (14)
       calendar days thereafter by either the Committee or the Association pursuant to the Labor
       Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association.


       Failure of the grievant to present a grievance within and to advance it in accordance with
any of the time limits set forth in the grievance procedure shall constitute a resolution of the
grievance against the grievant. The time limits set forth herein may be enlarged by the written
consent of the parties hereto. In the event any of the parties to whom the grievance is presented as
hereinbefore provided fails to respond within the time limits provided, it shall be deemed a
denial of the grievance.
        The arbitrator's authority shall be limited to matters involving the interpretation and
application of the provisions of this Agreement. The arbitrator may not modify, amend, delete or
add to the terms of this Agreement. Within the time limits of his authority, the decision of the
arbitrator, to the extent provided by law, shall be final and binding. The fees and' expenses of the
arbitrator shall be borne equally by the parties. No employee shall have the right to require
arbitration.
        A grievance affecting a group of employees may be submitted in writing to the
Superintendent directly and the processing of such grievance shall commence at Step 2.

                                       ARTICLE 3
                           ASSOCIATION RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES

A.      Whenever any representative of the Association or any employee participates during
        working hours in negotiations, grievance proceedings, conferences or meetings scheduled
        by the school department, he/she shall suffer no loss of pay.
B.      The Association and its representatives shall have the right to use school buildings at all
        reasonable hours for meetings. For afternoon business meetings, the principal of the
        building in question shall be notified in advance of the time and place of all such
        meetings to assure that there are no conflicts. Standard procedures for use of school
        facilities will be followed for all evening meetings.




                                                                                                       4
C.     The Association shall have, in each school building, the use of an appropriately placed
       bulletin board in each faculty lounge. The Association shall also be assigned adequate
       space on the bulletin board in the central office for Association notices. Copies of all
       materials to be posted on such bulletin boards shall be given to the building principal, but
       no approval shall be required.
D.     The Association shall have the right to use the interschool mail facilities and school
       mailboxes in accordance with standard procedures.
E.     The President of the Association will be permitted to perform the duties of President
       during his/her non-working time.

                                          ARTICLE 4
                                          WORKYEAR

The work year shall not exceed 182 days, including two days of orientation before school starts
and 180 days meeting present state requirements with students.

                                           ARTICLE 5
                                           WORKDAY

1.     Employees shall be present at school fifteen minutes before the official starting time for
       students and shall remain, except as hereinafter provided, fifteen minutes after the official
       student dismissal time.
2.     Employees shall attend all teacher staff meetings. In addition, the principal of the school
       at which the employee is teaching, or the Superintendent, In their discretion,
       may require the employees' attendance beyond the aforementioned fifteen minutes for
       purposes other than teacher staff meetings but not longer than the Unit A teacher
       dismissal time. Demands by the Superintendent and/or Principal to remain beyond the
       aforementioned fifteen minutes for purposes other than teacher staff meetings shall not be
       unreasonably made.
       Employees may be required to perform the same supervisory type duties as members of
       Unit A.
       Employees shall have a daily duty free lunch period of from 25 to 50 minutes long (the
       specific length of time dependent on the conditions in each school) scheduled within the
       regular work day, during which time they may leave the building on providing
       notification to the office of said school.




                                                                                                     5
                                         ARTICLE 6
                                       COMPENSATION


       There shall be attached to and considered a part of this Agreement a pay schedule marked
"Appendix A." Employees shall be compensated in accordance with said schedule


       Direct Deposit is mandated for all employees.
                                          ARTICLE 7
                                         SICK LEAVE

       Employees shall be entitled to ten (10) sick leave days each school year. Employees shall
be entitled to accumulate sick leave to a maximum of thirty-days (30). Employees who have
used up their accumulated sick leave may request an extension of that leave with pay to be
approved at the discretion of the Superintendent.
       In the event an employee were to be appointed by the Committee to a position covered by
the Unit A Agreement between the Committee and the Association, the employee shall be
entitled to carry over into Unit A his/her accumulated sick leave. A running account of sick days
shall be recorded on the bi-weekly pay stub as soon as the technology is available to do so.

                                 ARTICLE 8
                    TEMPORARY LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITH PAY

       Each employee shall be entitled to the following non-accumulative leaves of absence
with full pay each school year.
A.     Each employee shall be entitled to two (2) paid personal days per contract
       year for imperative personal, legal business, or imperative household or imperative family
       matters which necessitates the employee's presence and cannot be scheduled outside of
       work hours. The employee will give at least 72 hours of notice, when possible. Personal
       days cannot be taken on days immediately preceding or following holidays or vacations.
       Exceptions can be granted by the Superintendent following written request.
B.     In the case of death of the employee's husband, wife, brother, sister, son, daughter,
       grandparent, grandchild, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, aunt,
       uncle and other member of the employee's immediate household, the School
       Administration shall grant the employee a leave of absence without loss of pay for a
       period of up to five (5) days (i.e., the employee does not automatically receive five (5)
       days but shall be granted a leave of absence of between one (1) and five (5) days).




                                                                                                     6
C.   One day for the purpose of visiting other schools or attending meetings or conferences of
     an educational nature.
D.   One day if the absence is caused by the serious illness of the employee's parent or the
     serious illness of a member of the employee's immediate household, if the employee's
     presence is necessary.

                                     ARTICLE9
                              PROTECTION OF EMPLOYEES

A.   Employees shall not be required to work under unsafe or hazardous conditions or to
     perform tasks, which endanger the health, safety, or well-being of themselves (excluding
     any risk inherent in the job).
     The Association shall have the right, upon request, to meet with the Administration to
     discuss safety matters.
B.   The Committee agrees that the Workmen's Compensation provisions of Chapter 152,
     Section 69 General Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and as established by
     the Town of Marblehead providing for benefits to employees and their dependents in the
     event of incapacity or death arising out of employment shall be accepted and applied to
     members as so provided.
C.   The Committee agrees that the employees are indemnified by the Town of Marblehead to
     the extent required by law as provided in Chapter 41, Section 100C of the General Laws
     of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and as established by the Town of Marblehead.

                                     ARTICLE 10
                                   EMPLOYEE RIGHTS

A.   Whenever any employee is required by the Superintendent, an administrator , or the
     Committee to appear before them concerning any matter which could directly and
     adversely affect their employment, he/she shall, upon request, be entitled to have a
     representative of the Association present.
B.   No reprisal of any kind shall be taken against any employee for participating in any
     grievance.
C.   No employee shall be prevented from wearing pins or other identification of membership
     in the Association or other professional affiliations.




                                                                                                 7
                                         ARTICLE 11
                                    EMPLOYEE EVALUATION

A.        All formal evaluation of the work performance of an employee shall be conducted with
          openness and with the full knowledge of the employee.
B.        An employee shall be given a copy of any visit or evaluation report prepared by his/her
          evaluator. Employees who question the validity of an evaluation are entitled to another
          evaluation by a different evaluator appointed by the Superintendent. The evaluator shall
          meet with the employee to discuss the evaluation report at a mutually convenient time
          normally within two (2) days after the employee's evaluation.
C.        An employee shall have the right to review the contents of his/her personnel folders,
          excluding confidential recommendations for employment in or advancement in the
          Marblehead School System. An employee shall be entitled to have a representative of the
          Association accompany him/her during such a review.
D.        Any employee shall have the right to submit a written comment on the contents of his/her
          personnel folder and the comments will be placed in the employee's personnel folder.


                                             ARTICLE 12
                                             VACANCIES

          Proper notice of all vacancies in the bargaining unit shall be given to the Association and
posted in appropriate buildings.

                                           ARTICLE 13
                                         CAR ALLOWANCE

            Employees who are required to use their automobiles in the performance of their duties
     and responsibilities will be reimbursed for all such travel (commuting excluded) at the
     reimbursable rate determined by the Town of Marblehead.



                                         ARTICLE 14
                                     PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS

          The School Committee shall provide that, whenever duly authorized by an employee on a
form or forms approved by the Committee, payroll deductions on behalf of such employee shall
be made every payday and paid over in accordance with such fo1m or forms for any or all of the
following purposes:
1.        Purchase of United States Savings Bonds.


                                                                                                        8
2.   Premiums under the Town of Marblehead Employee's Group Insurance Program
3.   Premiums for any tax sheltered annuity plan contracted by the employee pursuant to the
     United States Public Law #87-370. (Authorization must be given prior to September 30.)
4.   Dues for membership in the Marblehead Education Association, Massachusetts Teachers'
     Association, and the National Education Association from employees authorizing
     deductions by October 15 with dues deductions to be paid in equal installments from the
     first pay check in November and continuing for the balance of the school year.
5.   Payroll deductions for the MTA Credit Union.
6.   Payroll deductions for the Marblehead Municipal Employees' Federal Credit
     Union.

                                      ARTICLE 15
                               TUITION REIMBURSEMENT

A.   Procedure. College courses, workshops, continuing education unit programs or in-service
     programs may be approved by the Superintendent. Under normal circumstances, request
     for approval must be made in writing, on a form supplied by the Superintendent in
     advance of the start of the course. Courses must be approved by the Superintendent.
B.   Reimbursement. The employee shall pay the entire tuition cost of approved courses and
     will be reimbursed under the following terms and conditions:
     1.       The employee must obtain a grade of B- or better or evidence of receiving the
              total Continuing Education Units for the course, shall be satisfactory.
     2.       A receipted copy of the tuition bill or canceled check must be submitted to the
              Superintendent as evidence of the course.
     3.       Within thirty (30) days after receipt of Items 1 and 2 of this section
              (reimbursement), the Committee shall reimburse the employee for his/her out of
              pocket tuition payment up to $600/fiscal year.

                                    ARTICLE 16
                             MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

A.   The Committee and the Association agree that there shall be no discrimination, and that
     all practices, procedures and policies of the school system shall clearly exemplify that
     there is no discrimination in the hiring, training, assignment, promotion, transfer or in the
     application or administration of this Agreement on the basis of race, creed, color, religion,
     national origin, sex, domicile or marital status.




                                                                                                 9
B.    If any provision of this Agreement or any application of this Agreement to any employee
      or group of employees is held to be contrary to law, then such provisions or application
      shall not be deemed valid and subsisting, except to the extent permitted by law, but all
      other provisions or applications shall continue in full force and effect.
C.    Once employed, any individual contract between the Marblehead School District and an
      individual employee heretofore or hereafter executed shall be subject to and consistent
      with the spirit and terms and conditions of this Agreement. If an individual contract
      contains any language inconsistent with this Agreement, this Agreement during its
      duration, shall be controlling.
D.    It shall be unlawful for any employee to engage in, induce, or encourage any strike, work
      stoppage, slowdown or withholding of services by such employee.
E.    Requests for leave to attend conferences of an educational nature shall be made to the
      Superintendent and shall be subject to his approval.
F.    The Association acknowledges that the Committee has fulfilled Its bargaining
      obligations with regard to the Drug Policy attached hereto as Appendix B. No challenge
       shall be made with regard to the adoption and implementation of said policy by the
       Committee/ Administration.
G.    The language of this Agreement shall be interpreted subject to and in conformity with the
       Education Reform Act of 1993 and any provision of this Agreement inconsistent with the
       Education Reform Act shall be deemed amended so as to be in compliance with such Act.

                                       ARTICLE 17
                                  PAID ADOPTION LEAVE

(APPLICABLE ONLY TO PERMANENT SUBSTITUTES WHO HAVE BEEN ACTIVELY
EMPLOYED FOR AT LEAST THREE CONSECUTIVE YEARS IMMEDIATELY
PRECEDJNG THEIR REQUEST FOR PAID ADOPTION LEAVE (HEREJNAFTER CALLED
"ELIGIBLE SERVICE EMPLOYEES")


       An eligible service employee shall be entitled to paid adoption leave, subject to the
following terms and conditions:
       A.     Maximum amount of paid adoption leave: 4 weeks (20 workdays).
              (Lost work time within four weeks following the eligible service employee
              receiving actual custody of the child.)
       B.      Deduction from sick leave: The leave shall be deducted from the eligible service
               employee's sick leave (annual, if sufficient, otherwise accumulated). In the event




                                                                                                 10
      the eligible service employee does not have sufficient sick leave to his/her credit,
      the eligible service employee shall not be eligible for paid adoption leave to the
      extent of the deficiency.
C.    Age of adoptive child: The child must be below six years of age.
D.    Purpose of leave: To make a1rangements for and to care for the adopted child.
E.    If both parents are eligible service employees in the Marblehead school system:
      In the event both parents are eligible service employees in the Marblehead School
      system, either parent may request the paid adoption leave but the total amount of
      such paid adoption leave shall not exceed the maximum of four weeks.
F.    Request for Paid Adoption Leave - Time of Leave
      I.      The leave shall commence, except as hereinafter provided in F3, upon
              receiving actual custody of the child, or earlier if necessary to fulfill the
              requirements of adoption.
      2.      The eligible service employee shall give, to the extent possible, at least
              two (2) weeks written notice to the Superintendent of his/her anticipated
              date of depa1ture and his/her intent to return.
      3.      In the event defacto custody is taken during any of the school vacations
              during the school year (Christmas, February or April vacation), the leave
              shall commence on the first workday following such school vacation. This
              provision shall only be applicable to school vacations during the school
              year. If defacto custody were taken in July, the eligible service employee
              would not be eligible for paid adoption leave.
G.   Family and Medical Leave Act
     If and to the extent the eligible service employees are entitled to leave under the
     Family and Medical Leave Act, such time shall be charged against the adoption
     leave.
H.   Eligible Service Employees on Maternity Leave
     An eligible service employee on maternity leave shall be entitled to paid parental
     leave subject to the same terms and conditions applicable to paid adoption leave,
     except as follows:
     The amount of the paid parental leave shall not exceed the following: Four weeks
     less any paid sick leave taken by the eligible service employees on maternity leave.
              Example:        An eligible service employee on an eight-week
              unpaidmaternity leave is disabled for five days and utilizes five
              days of sick leave. The eligible service employees, in such
              case, would then be entitled to 15 days of paid parental


                                                                                              11
                       leave subject to the same terms and conditions applicable to
                       paid adoption leave.
       I.      This paid adoption leave Article shall expire and be of no further force and effect
               on August 30, 2001.
                                              ARTICLE 18
                                               FUNDING

In the event the total School Committee budget presented by the School Committee to the
Town Meeting for the first fiscal year of any agreement is not fully funded by the Town
Meeting, then the wage increases referred to in any Memorandum of Agreement for the
first year shall be of no force and effect at the discretion of the Committee. In the event
the Committee so exercises its discretion, the parties shall meet to negotiate as
if no agreement had been reached and, in such negotiation, all issues shall be "open." This
article will not be in effect through August 31, 2012 or through to the last day of this
contract.
                                              ARTICLE 19
                                              DURATION

This Agreement shall become effective September 1, 2021, except as otherwise provided herein,
and shall continue in full force and effect until August 31, 2024, except as otherwise provided
herein. Negotiations for a successor Agreement shall begin no later than thirty (30) days, but in no
event earlier than December 15, 2023, after written notice by either party of its' desire to
commence negotiations for a successor Agreement. The Committee and the Association, upon
receipt of said notice, shall make mutually satisfactory arrangements to engage in negotiations for a
successor Agreement


   Marblehead School Committee

   _________________________                                                        ______________
   Chairperson                                                                      Date


   Marblehead Education Association


   _________________________                                                        ________________
   President                                                                        Date




                                                                                                        12
                                         APPENDIX A
                                      SALARY SCHEDULE




                                     Step           1        2        3        4        5

0% Day 1 of the 2021-2022sy                 1   24,188   27,114   28,115   29,200   30,197

1% 90th day of the 2021-2022sy              1   24,430   27,385   28,396   29,492   30,499

1% Day 1 of the 2022-2023sy                 1   24,674   27,659   28,680   29,787   30,804

1% 90th day of the 2022-2023sy              1   24,921   27,936   28,967   30,085   31,112

2% Day 1 2023-2024 for entire year          1   25,419   28,494   29,546   30,686   31,734




                                                                                         13
                                        APPENDIX B

                            DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY


                                                                                         File:GBEC

The School District will provide a drug-free workplace and certifies that it will:

1.     Notify all employees in writing that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing,
       possession or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in the District's workplace, and
       specify the actions that will be taken against employees for violation of such prohibitions.

2.     Establish a drug-free awareness program to inform employees about the dangers of drug
       abuse in the workplace; the District's policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace; and
       available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; and the
       penalty that may be imposed on employees for drug abuse violations occurring in the
       workplace.

3.     Make it a requirement that each employee whose employment is funded by a federal grant
       be given a copy of the statement as required.

4.     Notify the employee in the required statement that as a condition of employment under the
       grant, the employee will abide by the te1ms of the statement, and will notify the District
       of any criminal drug statute conviction for a violation occurring in the workplace no later
       than five days after such conviction.

5.     Notify the federal agency within ten days after receiving notice from an employee or
       otherwise receiving notice of such conviction.

6.     Take one of the following actions within 30 days of receiving notice with respect to any
       employee who is so convicted; take appropriate personnel action against such an employee,
       up to and including termination; or require such employee to participate satisfactorily in
       a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for such purposes by a federal,
       state or local health law enforcement, or other appropriate agency.


7.     Make a good faith effort to continue to maintain a drug-free workplace through
       implementation of all the provisions of this policy.

LEGAL REFS.: The Drug-Free Workplace Act of
1988 CROSS REFS.: JICH, Alcohol Use by
Students
SOURCE:MASC/Marblehead

Marblehead Public Schools Approved 10/18/2018




                                                                                                 14
