MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT -

WHEREAS, the Board of Selectmen of the Town of Marblehead voted on
January 31, 2012 to accept M.G.L. c. 32B, §19 (“Section 19’), for the purpose of
transferring the Town's health insurance subscribers to the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts Group Insurance Commission, (“GIC”);

WHEREAS, the Town of Marblehead (“Town”) and the duly-formed Public
Employee Committee (“PEC”), negotiated such transfer, and ultimately entered into a
Memorandum of Agreement covering the period of time beginning July 1, 2012, through
and including, June 30, 2018 (“MOA”);

WHEREAS, the Town and the PEC entered into negotiations in calendar year
2017 regarding a successor agreement to the MOA; and

WHEREAS, as a result of such negotiations, the Town and the PEC have reached
settlement with respect to the terms and conditions of a successor agreement covering the
period of time beginning July 1, 2018, through and including, June 30, 2024,
(“Agreement”).

NOW, THEREFORE, the Town and the PEC agree as follows:
1. Effective Date and Duration of Agreement

The Agreement shall take effect on the date the Town and the PEC execute the
Agreement and shall remain in effect through June 30, 2024.

2. Health Coverage with the GIC

The Town will continue coverage through the GIC through June 30, 2024. For
purposes of this Agreement, the term subscribers ("Subscribers") shall mean all
employees, retirees, surviving spouses and dependents, currently eligible for and
receiving health insurance through the Town, and any employees, retirees,
surviving spouses and dependents who become eligible in the future.

The Town will provide notice to the GIC of the Town's continuing coverage of
Subscribers to the GIC by sending a copy of this Agreement to the GIC as soon as
possible after the Town and the PEC execute the Agreement, and in no event later
than December 1, 2017.

PEC-GIC MOA-2018 1
The Town will take all reasonable and necessary actions required by the GIC to
effectuate the continuation of coverage no later than July 1, 2018 and to maintain
coverage thereafter for the duration of this Agreement.

3. Contribution Splits

Indemnity Plans

For the duration of this Agreement from July 1, 2018 through June 30, 2024, the
Town will contribute Sixty-five (65%) percent of the premium or cost for any of
the following indemnity plans currently offered by the GIC which a Subscriber
selects and the Subscriber shall contribute Thirty-five (35%) percent:

* UniCare State Indemnity Plan Basic with or without CIC

If the GIC offers any new or additional Indemnity plans during the life of this
Agreement, the same contribution percentages as described above in this Section
will apply. However it is agreed that only plans offered by the GIC will be

available to Subscribers.

HMO Plans, PPO Plans and POS Plans

For the duration of this Agreement, from July 1, 2018 through June 30, 2024, the
Town will contribute Eighty-three (83%) percent of the premium or cost for any
of the following health maintenance (“HMO”) plans, preferred provider (“PPO”)
plans or point of service (POS) plans currently offered by the GIC and the
Subscriber shall contribute Seventeen (17%) percent:

e Fallon Community Health Plan Direct Care

e Fallon Community Health Plan Select Care

e Harvard Pilgrim Independence Plan

e Harvard Pilgrim Primary Choice Plan

e Health New England

e NHP-Neighborhood Health Plan

e Tufts Health Plan Navigator

e Tufts Health Plan Spirit

e UniCare State Indemnity Plan Community Choice
e UniCare State Indemnity Plan PLUS

If the GIC offers any new or additional HMO, PPO or POS plans during the life of
this Agreement, the same contribution percentages as described above in this

PEC-GIC MOA-2018 2
Section will apply. However it is agreed that only plans offered by the GIC will
be available to Subscribers.

The Town will contribute Seventy-five (75%) percent of the premium and the
Subscriber/retiree shall contribute Twenty-five (25%) percent of the premium of
the Medicare Supplement Plan that such Subscriber/retiree participates in, which
is offered by the GIC.

4. Medicare Enrollment and Medicare Part B Premium Reimbursement:

Subscribers who are eligible or who become eligible for Medicare shall transfer to
Medicare coverage. A Subscriber who is enrolled in Medicare Part B, shall in
December of each calendar year be paid a Medicare Part B lump-sum
reimbursement equal to Seventy-five (75%) percent of the lowest premium rate for
Medicare Part B, and exclusive of any additional increases to the monthly premium
due to a Subscriber’s income. The Town shall pay any Medicare Part B premium
penalty assessed by the federal government.

The appointed Retiree representative for the PEC will be allowed to draft an
informational letter to those retirees who receive the annual reimbursement, referred
to by many as the “Christmas check”, to be included with the annual
reimbursement. The draft will be provided to the Town Administrator for the Town
Administrator’s review and approval on or before November 15, 2017, and
thereafter annually on or before November 1“.

5. Health Reimbursement Amount for Active Employees and Non-Medicare
Subscribers:

The Town shall fund a Health Reimbursement Arrangement (“HRA”), only during
the first year of this Agreement in the amount of Two Hundred Thousand
($200,000.00) Dollars, which amount shall be added to the remaining HRA amount
as of June 30, 2018, referenced in the MOA, to be utilized for the payment of the
third party administrative fee, and the reimbursement of co-payments and
deductibles paid by Subscribers who are active employees or Non-Medicare retirees
and as set forth below.

If any one Subscriber or such Subscriber’s family in the aggregate, has out of
pocket costs for covered services from in network providers, including
prescription drug co-payments, deductibles and office visit co-payments that
exceed One Thousand Two Hundred Fifty ($1,250.00) Dollars per Individual
Subscriber with an individual health plan, or Two Thousand Five Hundred
($2,500.00) Dollars per family Subscriber with a family health plan in total
only during a fiscal year of this Agreement, then in such event, the HRA will
provide One Hundred (100%) percent reimbursement of the costs for covered
services from in network providers that exceed One Thousand Two Hundred

PEC-GIC MOA-2018 3
Fifty ($1,250.00) Dollars per Subscriber, Two Thousand Five Hundred
($2,500.00) Dollars per family for that fiscal year of this Agreement.

Claims submitted by Subscribers for reimbursement shall be paid by the third

party administrator until the HRA is exhausted. Claims must be submitted in
accordance with procedures specified by the HRA administrator and must be
submitted by September | for paid services in the prior fiscal year. Notice will
be provided to the PEC when the Town receives notice from the HRA’s third
party administrator that the HRA amount falls below Twenty-five Thousand

($25,000.00) Dollars.

Any balance remaining in the Town funded HRA upon expiration of this
Agreement, after allowing for the claims run out period, shall revert to the
Town.

6. Waiting/ Hiatus Period
a. Waiting/Hiatus Period

New employees of the Town are eligible to enroll in health insurance offered
by the GIC in accordance 805 CMR 9.01. Therefore, in accordance 805 CMR
9.01(3), new employees of the Town are eligible to enroll in health insurance
offered through the GIC within Ten (10) calendar days of the first date of
employment with the Town. GIC health insurance benefits begin on the first
day of the month following sixty (60) days or two (2) full calendar months of
employment, whichever is less. The period between the date of employment
and the effective date of coverage pursuant to 805 CMR 9.01(3) is
hereinafter referred to as the "Waiting/Hiatus Period."

b. Waiting/Hiatus Period Stipend/Retroactive Coverage

During the "Waiting/Hiatus Period,” the Town shall pay a stipend
("Waiting/Hiatus Period Stipend’) to those newly hired employees who have
notified the Town within ten (10) calendar days of employment that such
employee has chosen to enroll in one of the health insurance plans through the
GIC. The amount of the "Waiting/Hiatus Period Stipend" will be equal to the
employee's portion as set forth above in Section 3 of this Agreement. To
receive the "Hiatus Period Stipend", the employee must show proof of other
health insurance coverage during the "Waiting/Hiatus Period," such as
COBRA or other alternative health insurance plan.

A newly enrolled employee who cancels such employee’s GIC coverage within

sixty (60) days of the effective date of the GIC coverage shall return the
"Waiting/Hiatus Period Stipend” in its entirety to the Town.

PEC-GIC MOA-2018 4
c. GIC Retroactive Effective Date of Coverage

Subscribers may request retroactive coverage from the GIC in accordance with
805 CMR 9.01(4). Therefore, if a Subscriber incurs a medical expense(s) during
the "Waiting/Hiatus Period" that in sum exceeds the full-cost health insurance
premium of the GIC's elected plan for the "Waiting/Hiatus Period", the Subscriber
may file a written request to the GIC for approval of health coverage to become
effective on the first day of employment. Upon approval by the GIC, coverage
shall take effect as of the first day of employment. In this event, the Town shall
submit the full-cost health insurance premium for the "Waiting/Hiatus Period" to
the GIC in a timely manner. The Subscriber shall reimburse the Town such
Subscriber’s proportional share of the premium and any "Waiting/Hiatus Period
Stipend" amount already received through normal payroll deductions.

The provisions of subparagraphs (a), (b) and (c) shall expire if and when the GIC
eliminates the "Waiting/Hiatus Period".

7. Voluntary Dental, Re-bid and Administration

The Town shall administer, including administration of a new request for proposal
as appropriate, a voluntary dental plan that will be available to eligible
Subscribers who will pay One Hundred (100%) percent of the premiums. Active
employees will have the benefit of pre-tax deductions through payroll. Provision
of the voluntary dental plan is contingent upon maintaining the required level of
enrollment as determined by the Insurer. An eligible Subscriber who enrolls in
this voluntary dental plan will become ineligible to re-enroll in said plan should
such eligible Subscriber elect to drop said dental plan coverage, provided
however, if such eligible Subscriber has a qualifying event, such eligible
Subscriber may rejoin no sooner than two (2) years after dropping the dental
plan coverage.

8. Retiree Dental

The Town shall participate in the GIC Retiree Dental Plan during the term of
this Agreement, providing however, the Town shall make no financial
contribution to the premium or cost for any of the dental plans offered by the
GIC; the retiree Subscriber shall pay one hundred percent (100%) of the
premium cost.

9, Flexible Spending Accounts
The Town shall continue the Internal Revenue Code Section 125, Flexible
Spending Medical Accounts Program (“Program”), such as Pretax Insurance

Premium Payments, Dependent Care Account Plan ‘DCAP’ and Medical
Care Account Plan MEDCAP,’ and shall provide for and pay the one-time

PEC-GIC MOA-2018 5
set up costs to implement the Program. The Town shall pay the annual
administrative fee for Subscribers who opt into the Program during the term
of this Agreement. The Program shall include a voluntary debit card system.
Subscribers may set aside funds up to the maximum amount permitted by the
Internal Revenue Service.

10. Future Meetings of Town and PEC

The PEC shall be composed of a union representative from each collective
bargaining unit which negotiates with the Town and a retiree representative
designated by the Retired State, County and Municipal Employees
Association. Each union representative and the retiree representative shall
have the option of allowing one additional representative to attend meetings
of the PEC and the Town’s designee.

Meetings of the Town and PEC will be held at times and places which are
mutually agreed upon by the Town and the PEC. In addition, either the
Town or the PEC may request a meeting upon seven (7) days notice to the
other party, unless there is an emergency that requires shorter notice.
Meeting notices in writing will be provided to the Town and to the PEC.

11. Correspondence and Information

The PEC shall, upon written request, review correspondence between the
Town and the GIC or between the Town and a provider of health care under
the GIC, provided however, only correspondence that is public in nature and
not protected or deemed “private” or “confidential” by any local, state, or
federal rule, regulation, policy, law, statute, or code.

12. Health Coverage after June 30, 2024

The participation of the Town and its Subscribers in the GIC shall continue
after June 30, 2024, unless, pursuant to a successor agreement executed by the
parties hereto, notice in writing is provided to the GIC no later than December
1, 2023, that the Town will withdraw from the GIC, effective July 1, 2024.

The Town or its designee and the PEC will begin negotiations for a successor
agreement pursuant to Section 19 no later than January 4, 2023. In
accordance with the notification requirements of the GIC, the Town will
notify the GIC no later than December 1, 2023, either that Subscribers will
continue coverage through the GIC effective July 1, 2024 at the interval
specified in the successor Agreement, or that the Town is withdrawing its
Subscribers from the GIC effective July 1, 2024.

PEC-GIC MOA-2018 6

13. Effect of Agreement

This Agreement shall be binding on all Subscribers and shall supersede any
conflicting provisions of any Town policies or any collective bargaining
agreements between the Town and any unions representing Town employees.

The Town's acceptance of Section 19 is conditioned upon transferring its
Subscribers to the GIC. If the Town ceases to provide health insurance through the
GIC, then in such event, the Town agrees to maintain General Laws, Chapter
32B, Section 19 for the purpose of bargaining group health insurance coverage
with the PEC.

14. Cancellation

In the event the Town is delinquent in making payments as required by the GIC and
the GIC notifies the Town that it intends to exercise its option to cancel coverage
pursuant to Section 19, the Town will immediately notify the PEC, present it a
proposal for plans which are at least the actuarial equivalent of those offered by the
GIC, and engage in negotiations with the PEC for replacement coverage.

15. Savings Clause

If any provision or portion of the Agreement is found to be unenforceable or
unlawful, the remaining provisions or portions shall remain binding.

16. Scope and Modification

This Agreement shall constitute the whole of the Agreement between the Town and
the PEC. The Agreement may be modified only by a writing signed by the Town
and the PEC.

17. Resolution of Disputes

Either party may submit a dispute between the parties concerning the
interpretation or application of this Agreement to the American Arbitration
Association for arbitration under its Labor Arbitration Rules. A request for
arbitration by the PEC must be approved by seventy percent (70%) of the
weighted votes of the representatives on the PEC. The costs and fees of any such
arbitration, including those of the arbitrator, shall be borne equally by the Town
and the PEC, providing however, that each party shall be responsible for the fees
of their own legal counsel.

PEC-GIC MOA-2018 7
18. Authorization to Sign Agreement

Each signatory to this Agreement is authorized to bind the union/entity that such
signatory represents. The PEC represents that it has the authorization and
approval of a majority of the weighted votes of the PEC, and that this Agreement is
binding on all Subscribers and all such Subscribers’ respective union/entity.

Executed on the date above first written.

For the Marblehead Public
Employee Committee

Douglas Knowles,
Marblehead Firefighters, IAFF, Local 2043

. )
Marcia Cannon, MMEU, EU Local 1776 1776,
IUE-CW ill

Dan Gdetor, Marb lehead Police Union

MASSCOP, von 437

a Shtlin

Joan Miller

arblehead Education Association

ee Bie tl AFSCME

Catherine Gazzola, Retireey “

PEC-GIC MOA-2018

For the Town of Marblehead

Ouelece 4e0/-brckur

Jackie Belf-Becker, foul
Board of Selectmen

mh dake Vent,

Judith R. Jacobi, Selectmen

he

ye, Selectmen

‘%

[ou

M.C. Moses 2 Selectmen

a i pec ad own Administrator
