             AGREEMENT


            BETWEEN THE


        SCHOOL COMMITTEE
             OFTHE
       TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD


                AND THE


MARBLEHEAD EDUCATION ASSOCIATION


              Unit - Tutors


    September 1, 2021 -August 31, 2024
                                           CONTENTS
ARTICLE I - RECOGNITION .......................................................................................................3

ARTICLE 2 - MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY................................................................... 3

ARTICLE 3 - HOURS OF WORK .................................................................................................4

ARTICLE 4 - PROBATIONARY PERIOD - YEARLY APPOINTMENT .................................. 4

ARTICLE 5 - JOB POSTING ........................................................................................................ 5

ARTICLE 6 - COMPENSATION .................................................................................................. 5

ARTICLE 7 - MILEAGE ............................................................................................................... 6

ARTICLE 8 - SICK LEAVE .......................................................................................................... 6

ARTICLE 9 -HOLIDAYS .............................................................................................................. 6

ARTICLE 10-TEMPORARYLEAVES OF ABSENCE .......................................................... 7

ARTICLE ll-PAYROLLDEDUCTIONS ................................................................................ 7

ARTICLE 12- TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT............................................................................. 8

ARTICLE 13 -GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE ................................................................................ 8

ARTICLE 14 - STRIKES ............................................................................................................... 9

ARTICLE 15-JURYDUTY .............................................................................................. 10

ARTICLE 16 - MATERNITYIPATERNAL LEAVE................................................................. 10

                     ADOPTION LEAVE……………………………………………………………11

ARTICLE 17 - TUITION REIMBURSEMENT .......................................................................... 12

ARTICLE 18 - INSURANCE ...................................................................................................... 13

ARTICLE 19 - EFFECT OF AGREEMENT ............................................................................... 13

ARTICLE 20 - MISCELLANEOUS ............................................................................................ 14

ARTICLE 21 - FUNDING ........................................................................................................... 14

ARTICLE 22 - DURATION AND RENEWAL .......................................................................... 15

ATTACHMENT A - DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY - STANDARDS ........................ 16




                                                                                                                                         2
                        MARBLEHEAD EDUCATION ASSOCIATION

                                            Unit: Tutors

       AGREEMENT made and entered into on the day of by and between the Marblehead
School Committee, hereinafter referred to as the "Committee" and the Marblehead Education
Association, MTA/NEA, hereinafter referred to as the "Association".

                                           ARTICLE I
                                         RECOGNITION

       The Committee hereby recognizes the Association as the sole and exclusive bargaining
representative for the purpose of collective bargaining (as provided by Chapter 150E of the
General Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts) for all full-time and part-time tutors
regularly working 15 or more hours per week for the Marblehead School District.


                                    ARTICLE 2
                             MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY

       The listing of the following specific rights of management in this Article is not intended
to be nor shall be considered restrictive of or as a waiver of any rights of the Committee/
Administration not listed herein. Such managerial responsibilities shall remain exclusive with the
Committee/Administration except as they may be modified by the specific provisions of this
Agreement.

        Among such management responsibilities as are vested exclusively in the Marblehead
School District are the following: the right to hire, promote, transfer, assign and retain employees
in positions with the District to suspend, demote, discharge or take other disciplinary action
against employees to evaluate employees, to determine the hourly, daily and weekly schedules of
employment, to relieve employees from duty because of lack of work or other legitimate
reasons,to make, administer and enforce work rules and regulations, to determine the method,
means and personnel by whom Marblehead School District's operations are to be conducted and to
take whatever action may be necessary to carry out the work of the Committee/Administration in
situations of emergency.

        The Committee/Administration shall have the freedom of action to discharge its
responsibility for the successful operation of tutor work including the scheduling of operations,
the methods, materials and equipment used in carrying out the functions of such work and the
extent to which its own or other facilities, equipment or personnel shall be used.

        Any of the rights, powers and authorities which the Committee/Administration had prior
to entering this collective bargaining agreement are retained by the Committee/Administration,
except as specifically modified by this Agreement.




                                                                                                    3
        Nothing contained in this Agreement is to be construed as in any way granting or waiving
rights or responsibilities of the Committee/Administration, which may not be granted or waived
by the Committee/Administration under the statutes of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts or
any applicable Town Ordinance.

                                         ARTICLE 3
                                       HOURS OF WORK

       The Committee/Administration retains the right to establish and change for each
employee the number of hours in the workday, the starting and quitting times, the number of
hours in the workweek and the length of the work year.

       In the event the hours that an employee actually works are reduced because of a delayed
opening of schools caused by inclement weather or an emergency situation, the employee shall
be compensated for such reduced hours at his/her regular hourly rate of pay.

       Tutors at the high school and middle school who teach a class will receive one
preparation block at the discretion of the principal each day. Full time tutors will receive an
unpaid duty free lunch period.

                                 ARTICLE 4
                  PROBATIONARY PERIOD- YEARLY APPOINTMENT

        Each new employee and each employee hired after a break in service shall be considered
as a probationary employee until he/she shall have actually worked seventy five (75) full days.
Probationary employees may be disciplined, discharged or otherwise terminated in the sole
discretion of the Committee/Administration and such action shall not be subject to the grievance
and arbitration provisions of this Agreement.

        Employees hired by the Marblehead School District shall be considered hired for one (1)
school year term only. (The school year in which the employee commences work.) Similarly,
reappointments shall be for only one (1) school year. The decision of the Marblehead School
District as to whether to reappoint the employee each year shall be in the sole discretion of the
Marblehead School District and the District's decision thereon shall not be subject to the
grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement.

         By May 15th a list of expected positions will be posted. Employees who have received a
satisfactory evaluation will be considered for employment in the succeeding year and need not
submit an application unless a different position from that previously occupied is desired.
Employees shall be notified, in writing, by the Marblehead School district by June 15th as to their
appointment for the next academic year. If there is to be a reduction in the number of tutors, the
School District will attempt to give notice by June I5 th. Employees who are not notified by the
Marblehead School District by the last day of school as to whether they have been reappointed
should be deemed not reappointed. Notification to those appointed shall to the extent known,
include the assignment, the location and the hours.




                                                                                                  4
        Disciplinary action taken against any employee upon expiration of his/her probationary
period and prior to the expiration of his/her yearly appointment (first year and subsequent years)
shall be subject to a just clause standard.

Examples:
   1.     Discharge or other disciplinary action within the probationary period-not arbitral
   2.     Employee not reappointed - not arbitral
   3.     Employee discharged (disciplinary) subsequent to probationary period- just cause
          standard.
   4.     Employee terminated during year (non-disciplinary) not arbitral.


                                             ARTICLE 5
                                            JOB POSTING

        Whenever a permanent vacancy in positions covered by the Agreement occurs and the
District desires to fill such vacancy, the Marblehead School District shall post a notice of
vacancy in each school for a period of five (5) working days. All employees who are interested
in bidding on the vacancy must apply in writing during this five (5) day period.

        The Marblehead School District may fill said vacancy from applicants from within or
outside of the bargaining unit and the District's decision thereon shall not be subject to the
grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement. In the event the District fills said job
from within the bargaining unit, the vacancy created in the successful applicant's position and
any further such vacancies that might occur shall not be subject to posting. In other words,
paragraph one (1) of this Article shall only apply to the original vacancy.

       The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to reappointments.


                                        ARTICLE 6
                                      COMPENSATION

A.     Hourly Pay Schedule


                                                              Step 1       Step 2
                 0% Day 1 of the 2021-2022sy                     23.94       28.12
                 1% 90th day of the 2021-2022sy                  24.18       28.40
                 1% Day 1 of the 2022-2023sy                     24.42       28.69
                 1% 90th day of the 2022-2023sy                  24.67       28.97
                 2% Day 1 2023-2024 for entire year              25.16       29.55




                                                                                                   5
Employees become eligible for placement on the Step 2 after three full school years of service in
Marblehead.



       B.      For the purpose of placement on the salary schedule, the Superintendent may at his
               or her discretion, place new employees no higher than the second step on the salary
               schedule based upon documented work-related experience. The Superintendent's
               exercise of this discretion may not be subject to challenge.

       C.     Tutors for long term home tutoring shall be paid at the rate of $33.00 per hour if the
              Tutor is certified/licensed as a teacher by the Massachusetts Department of
              Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE). Tutors for long term home tutoring
              who are not certified/licensed as a teacher by DESE shall be paid at such Tutor's rate
              of pay as provided for in Article 6A..

       D.     Tutors performing bargaining unit work during the summer shall be paid at such
              Tutor's rate of pay as provided for in Article 6A.

       E.     The parties agree that effective September 1, 2015 the District shall implement
              mandatory direct deposit for all bargaining unit employees.

                                             ARTICLE 7
                                             MILEAGE

          Tutors who are required to use their automobiles in the performance of their duties
   shall be reimbursed for all such travel (commuting excluded) at the reimbursable rate determined
   by the Town of Marblehead.

                                              ARTICLE 8
                                             SICK LEAVE

           Employees shall be entitled to accrue sick leave at the rate of one (1) day per month of
   active employment but not to exceed ten (10) days in one (1) academic year. 2011-2012 sick
   days will be increased by one day to a total of 11 days.
           Maximum accumulation of sick leave shall be sixty (60) days. Sick leave may only be
   used for personal injury or sickness.


                                              ARTICLE9
                                              HOLIDAYS

          Employees in their second year and subsequent years of employment shall be entitled to
  six (6) paid holidays each year. The holidays will be determined by June 16 th of the preceding
  year by an MEA member and the Superintendent or his/her designee.



                                                                                                      6
                                    ARTICLE IO
                            TEMPORARY LEAVES OF ABSENCE

 A.    FUNERAL LEAVE

       In the case of death of the employee's husband, wife, brother, sister, son, daughter,
       grandparent, grandchild, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, aunt,
       uncle and other member of the employee's immediate household, the School
       Administration shall grant the employee a leave of absence without loss of pay for a
       period of up to five (5) days (i.e., the employee does not automatically receive five (5)
       days but shall be granted a leave of absence of between one (1) and five (5) days).

B.     PERSONAL DAYS

       Each employee shall be entitled to two (2) personal days per contract year for imperative
       personal business, legal business, or imperative household or imperative family matters
       which necessitates the employee's presence and cannot be scheduled outside of work
       hours. The employee will give at least forty-eight (48) hours' notice, when possible.
       Notice of the taking of such leave shall be given on the form attached as Exhibit "A."
       Generally, days immediately proceeding and immediately following holidays or vacation
       shall not be used.

C.     OTHER LEAVES

       All requests for leave of absence, whether paid or unpaid, shall be made in writing to the
       Superintendent and are subject to his or her approval. The denial of any such approval shall
       not be subject to challenge.

D.     ASSOCIATION LEAVE
       Time necessary for up to two (2) representatives of the Association to attend conferences and
       conventions of State and National affiliated organizations not to exceed two (2) total days in
       combination during any school year.


                                       ARTICLE 11
                                   PAYROLL DEDUCTION

The School Committee shall provide that, whenever duly authorized by any employee on a form
or forms approved by the Committee, payroll deductions on behalf of such employee shall be
made every payday and paid in accordance with such form or forms for any or all of the
following purposes:

       1.     Premiums under the Town of Marblehead employee's Group Insurance Program.

       2.     Dues for the Marblehead Education Association, Massachusetts Teachers
              Association, National Education Association from employees authorizing



                                                                                                     7
                deductions by October 15, with dues deductions to be paid in equal installments
                from the first pay check in November and continuing for the balance of the school
                year.

        3.      Payroll deductions for the Marblehead Municipal Employees Credit Union.


                                            ARTICLE 12
                                      TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT

        In the event an employee is temporarily assigned by his/her supervisor to perform the duties
of a person in a higher rated job or daily substitute teaching job and so performs such duties, he/she
shall receive compensation for such service at the job rate of the higher rated job or daily substitute
teaching job. Such compensation shall continue so long as the employee continues to perform the
duties of the higher rated job. It is understood that upon return by the employee to his/her regular
duties, the increase in compensation provided for in this Article shallterminate.

       In the event an employee is temporarily assigned by his/her Principal to teach a
class/classes as a substitute teacher, he/she shall be paid the following extra compensation,
subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter provided.

A.     In order to be eligible to receive the extra compensation, the employee must possess
       a bachelor's degree.

B.     The employee shall receive $10.00 extra dollars for each teaching period so assigned by
       the Principal, up to a maximum of $50.00

                                        ARTICLE 13
                                   GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE

       Any grievance, which may arise between the parties hereto, shall be presented in the
following manner and order and within the time limits set forth herein. A grievance is defined as
a claim concerning the application, meaning or interpretation of the express terms of this
Agreement.

Step 1: The employee with a grievance, shall take up the grievance with the employee's
         immediate supervisor within fourteen (14) days of the date of the grievance or the date
         the employee first acquired knowledge or should have acquired knowledge of its
         occurrence.. A representative of the Association may be present. The employee's
         immediate supervisor shall attempt to adjust the matter and shall respond within seven
         (7) calendar days after the submission of the grievance to him in Step I

Step 2: If the grievance has not been settled in Step 1, it shall be taken up with the
          Superintendent, or her/his designated representative, within seven (7) calendar days
          after the supervisor's response is due or received, whichever is earlier. Such grievance




                                                                                                    8
          shall be submitted in writing. The Superintendent shall respond in writing ten (10)
          calendar days after the submission of the grievance to her/him in Step 2.

Step 3: (Not applicable to grievances involving discipline) If the grievance is still unresolved,
        the Association may, within ten (10) calendar days after the reply of the Superintendent
        is due or received, whichever is earlier, submit the grievance to the Committee. The
        Committee shall meet with the aggrieved employee and representative of the
        association within twenty-one (21) calendar days after receipt of the written grievance
        in an effort to resolve the matter.

Step 4: If the grievance cannot be resolved by and between the Committee and the aggrieved
        employee and the Association within twenty-one (21) calendar days after the meeting
        held in Step 3, or if a discipline grievance has not been resolved at Step 2, then the
        matter may be submitted to arbitration within fourteen (14) calendar days thereafter by
        either the Committee or the Association pursuant to the Labor Arbitration Rules of the
        American Arbitration Association.

        Failure of the grievant to present a grievance within and to advance it in accordance with
any of the time limits set forth in the grievance procedure shall constitute a resolution of the
grievance against the grievant. The time limits set forth herein may be enlarged by the written
consent of the parties hereto. In the event any of the parties to whom the grievance is presented
as hereinbefore provided fails to respond within the time limits provided, it shall be deemed a
denial of the grievance.

The arbitrator's authority shall be limited to matters involving the interpretation and application
of the provisions of this Agreement. The arbitrator may not modify, amend, delete or add to the
terms of this Agreement. Within the limits of his authority, the decision of the arbitrator to the
extent provided by law shall be final and binding. The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall
be borne equally by the parties. No employee shall have the right to require arbitration.


                                           ARTICLE 14
                                            STRIKES

Section 1. There shall be no strikes, walkouts, stoppages or other suspensions of work, boycotts,
sit-downs or slowdowns, picketing or any other interference with the Marblehead School
District's operations, whether direct or sympathetic. No officer, agent or representative of the
Association shall authorize, approve, ratify or condone any of the activities herein prohibited and
no employee will instigate, promote, sponsor, engage in or condone any of the activities herein
prohibited.

Section 2. The Association, its officers, agents and representatives, shall make every reasonable
effort in good faith to prevent or terminate any action in violation of Section 1 of this Article,
including, but not limited to, publicly declaring that such action is in violation of the Agreement
and by instructing and directing the employees to cease such improper conduct and that work be
fully resumed.



                                                                                                  9
Section 3. The Marblehead School District may impose any disciplinary action, including
discharge, upon any or all of the- employees involved in a violation of Section 1. Such action by
the District shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement
except as to the questions of whether or not such a violation in fact occurred and whether or not
the employees who were disciplined in fact instigated, sponsored, engaged in or condoned any of
the activities therein prohibited.


                                           ARTICLE 15
                                           JURYDUTY

        In the event an employee is called for jury duty, the employee shall be permitted to be
absent from work so to serve and shall be paid for time as a juror the difference between the
amount the employee received for jury duty (excluding trial allowances or reimbursement
expenses) and the amount the employee would have received had the employee been employed
by the Marblehead School District during the time, provided the employee was scheduled to
work during such time. Jury pay shall be computed on the basis of the employee's base hourly
rate and shall be limited to the amount of hours regularly worked per day. To be eligible for the
jury duty benefits provided herein, the employee must give the Marblehead Schoo1 District
reasonable notice that the employee has been summonsed for jury duty, must furnish satisfactory
evidence that the employee reported for or performed jury duty during the time for which the
employee claims payment and during the period of jury service the employee must report for
work on days when the employee's services as a juror are not required. An employee who
volunteers (without being summoned) for jury duty will not receive any of the jury duty benefits
listed above


                                     ARTICLE 16
                              MATERNITY/PARENTAL LEAVE

A tutor who has completed three consecutive months of employment shall be granted a maternity
leave of absence, subject to the terms and conditions hereafter provided:

Leaves for the purpose of giving birth, or as otherwise provided for by MGL Chapter 149,
Section 105D, not exceeding eight (8) weeks duration shall be granted pursuant to and shall be
subject to the terms and conditions of MGL Chapter 149, Section 105D.

The tutor shall give at least two (2) weeks written notice to the Superintendent of her anticipated
date of departure and intention to return.

Such leave shall be without pay except as provided below:

A tutor, who has given birth, may utilize accumulated sick leave while on maternity leave
subject to the following terms and conditions;




                                                                                                  10
1.     The tutor continues to work until such time as she is physically disabled from working.
       The Administration may require the tutor to produce medical certification of disability as
       aforementioned.

2.     The accumulated sick leave may only be utilized during the period of physical disability.


                                  PAID ADOPTION LEAVE

(Applicable only to employees who have been actively employed for at least three consecutive
years immediately preceding their request for paid adoption leave (hereinafter called "eligible
service employees"))

1.     An eligible service employee shall be entitled to paid adoption leave, subject to the
       following terms and conditions:

       A.      Maximum amount of paid adoption leave: 4 weeks (20 work days). (Lost work
               time within four weeks following the eligible service employee receiving actual
               custody of the child.)

       B.     Deduction from sick leave: The leave shall be deducted from the eligible
              service employee's sick leave (annual, if sufficient, otherwise accumulated). In
              the event the eligible service employee does not have sufficient sick leave to
              his/her credit, the eligible service employee shall not be eligible for paid adoption
              leave to the extent of the deficiency.

       C.     Age of adoptive child: The child must be below six years of age.

       D.     Purpose of leave: To make arrangements for and to care for the adopted child.

       E.     If both parents are eligible service employees in the Marblehead school
              system: In the event both parents are eligible service employees in the
              Marblehead School system, either parent may request the paid adoption leave but
              the total amount of such paid adoption leave shall not exceed the maximum of four
              weeks.

       F.     Request for Paid Adoption Leave - Time of Leave:

              1.      The leave shall commence, except as hereinafter provided in F3, upon
                      receiving actual custody of the child, or earlier if necessary to fulfill the
                      requirements of adoption.

              2.      The eligible service employee shall give, to the extent possible, at least
                      two (2) weeks written notice to the Superintendent of his/her anticipated
                      date of departure and his/her intent to return.




                                                                                                      11
             3.     In the event defacto custody is taken during any of the school vacations
                    during the school year (Christmas, February or April vacation), the leave
                    shall commence on the first workday following such school vacation.
                    This provision shall only be applicable to school vacations during the
                    school year. If defacto custody were taken in July, the eligible service
                    employee would not be eligible for paid adoption leave.

     G.     Family and Medical Leave Act:

            If and to the extent the eligible service employees are entitled to leave under the
            Family and Medical Leave Act, such time shall be charged against the adoption
            leave.

     H.     Eligible Service Employees on Maternity Leave:

            An eligible service employee on maternity leave under Article 17 shall be entitled
            to paid parental leave subject to the same terms and conditions applicable to paid
            adoption leave, except as follows:

            The amount of the paid parental leave shall not exceed the following: Four weeks
            less any paid sick leave taken by the eligible service employees on maternity
            leave.

            Example: An eligible service employee on an eight-week unpaid maternity leave
                     is disabled for five days and utilizes five days of sick leave. The
                     eligible service employee in such case would then be entitled to 15
                     days of paid parental leave and conditions applicable to leave subject
                     to the same terms as paid adoption leave.




                                    ARTICLE 17
                             TUITION REIMBURSEMENT

A.   Procedure. College courses, workshops, continuing education unit programs or in-
     service programs may be approved by the Superintendent. Under normal circumstances,
     request for approval must be made in writing on a form supplied by the Superintendent in
     advance of the start of the course. Courses must be approved by the Superintendent.

B.   Reimbursement. The tutor shall pay the entire tuition cost of approved courses and will
     be reimbursed under the following terms and conditions:

     1.     The tutor must obtain a grade of B- or better and present satisfactory evidence
            thereof to the Superintendent. In the event the course is not graded in such a
            fashion, the equivalent of B- or better or evidence of receiving the total Continuing
            Education Units for the course shall be satisfactory.



                                                                                              12
        2.      A receipted copy of the tuition bill or canceled check must be transmitted to the
                Superintendent as evidence of the cost of the course.


        3.      Within thirty (30) days after receipt of items 1 and 2 of this section
                (reimbursement), the Committee shall reimburse the tutor for his/her out of pocket
                tuition payment up to $300.00 dollars per fiscal year.


                                           ARTICLE 18
                                           INSURANCE

A.      Employees will have the option of electing coverage under the provisions of the Group
        Health Insurance Plans offered by the Town of Marblehead at the percentage paid by the
        Town of Marblehead.

B.      Employees whose regular work schedule is at least forty (40) hours each week will have
        the option of electing to participate in the municipal retirement plan.


                                        ARTICLE 19
                                   EFFECT OF AGREEMENT


Section 1. This instrument constitutes the entire agreement of the Committee and the
Association arrived at as a result of collective bargaining negotiations, except such amendments
hereto as shall have been reduced to writing and signed by the parties


Section 2. The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this
Agreement each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands with respect to any
subject matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that the
understanding and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and
opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore, the Committee and the Association for
the life of this Agreement each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and each agrees
that the other shall not be obligated, to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter
referred to, or covered by this Agreement, or with respect to any subject or matter not
specifically referred to or covered by this Agreement, even though such subjects or matters may
not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time
that they negotiated or signed this Agreement.


Section 3. The waiver of any breach or condition of this Agreement by either party shall not
constitute a precedent with respect to future enforcement of all the terms and conditions of this
Agreement.



                                                                                                    13
Section 4. No provision of this Agreement shall be retroactive prior to the effective date of this
Agreement unless otherwise specifically stated herein.



                                         ARTICLE 20
                                       MISCELLANEOUS

A.     The Committee and the Association agree that there shall be no discrimination, and that
       all practices, procedures, and policies of the school system shall clearly exemplify that
       there is no discrimination in the hiring, training, assignment, promotion, transfer or in the
       application or administration of this Agreement on the basis of race, creed, color,
       religion, national origin, sex, domicile or marital status.

B.     This Agreement constitutes Committee policy for the term of said Agreement, and the
       Committee shall carry out the commitments contained herein and give them full force
       and effect as Committee policy.

C.     If any provision of this Agreement or any application of this Agreement to any employee
       or group of employees is held to be contrary to law, then such provision or application
       shall not be deemed valid and subsisting, except to the extent permitted by law, but all
       other provisions or applications shall continue in full force and effect.

 D.    The Association acknowledges that the Committee has filled its bargaining obligations
       with regard to the Drug Policy attached hereto as Exhibit B. No challenge shall be made
       with regard to the adoption and implementation of said policy by the
       Committee/Administration.

E.     The language of this Agreement shall be interpreted subject to and in conformity with the
       Education Reform Act of 1993 and any provision of this Agreement inconsistent with the
       Education Reform Act shall be deemed amended so as to be in compliance with such Act.



                                          ARTICLE 21
                                           FUNDING

       Each year of this Agreement is subject to funding in accordance with the following rules:

        In the event the total School Committee budget presented by the School Committee to the
Town Meeting for the first fiscal year of any agreement is not fully funded by the Town Meeting,
then the wage increases referred to in any Memorandum of Agreement for the first year shall be




                                                                                                  14
of no force and effect at the discretion of the Committee. In the event the committee so exercises
its discretion, the parties shall meet to negotiate as if no agreement had been reached and, in such
negotiation, all issues shall be "open."

        Article remains in contract but not in effect through end of contract period on August 31,
2012.

                              ARTICLE 22
           DURATION AND NEGOTIATION OF SUCCESSOR AGREEMENT

   A. This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from September 1, 2021 to August 31,
      2024 except as otherwise provided. This Agreement may only be extended in writing by
      mutual agreement of the parties.
   B. Negotiations for a successor agreement shall begin no later than October 15, 2023.
   C. This Agreement and procedures provided herein may be modified in whole or in part
      only by mutual agreement of the parties hereto, in which event such modification shall be
      duly executed in writing by both parties.
   D. The signatures below of the representatives of the Association and of the members of the
      Committee indicate that the parties have duly ratified this Agreement and the appendices
      attached hereto, said Agreement with appendices to be in effect from September 1, 2021
      to August 31, 2024 except as otherwise provided.



   Marblehead School Committee


   _________________________                                              ________________
   Chairperson                                                            Date




   Marblehead Education Association


   _________________________                                              ________________
   President                                                              Date




                                                                                                 15
                                                                                     File: GBEC

                            DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY

The School District will provide a drug-free workplace and certifies that it will:

1.     Notify all employees in writing that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing,
       possession or use of a controlled substance, is prohibited in the District's workplace, and
       specify the actions that will be taken against employees for violation of such prohibitions.

2.     Establish a drug-free awareness program to inform employees about the dangers of drug
       abuse in the workplace; the District's policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace; and
      available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; and the
      penalty that may be imposed on employees for drug abuse violations occurring in the
      workplace.
3.    Make it a requirement that each employee whose employment is funded by a federal
      grant be given a copy of the statement as required.


4.    Notify the employee in the required statement that as a condition of employment under
      the grant, the employee will abide by the terms of the statement, and will notify the
      District of any criminal drug statute conviction for a violation occurring in the workplace
      no later than five days after such conviction.


5.    Notify the federal agency within ten days after receiving notice from an employee or
      otherwise receiving notice of such conviction.


6.    Take one of the following actions within 30 days of receiving notice with respect to any
      employee who is so convicted; take appropriate personnel action against such an
      employee, up to and including termination; or require such employee to participate
      satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for such
      purposes by a federal, state or local health law enforcement, or other appropriate agency.


7.    Make a good faith effort to continue to maintain a drug-free workplace through
      implementation of all the provisions of this policy.


 LEGAL REFS.: The Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988
 CROSS REFS.: JICH, Alcohol Use by Students
 SOURCE:MASC/Marblehead



 Marblehead Public Schools Approved 10/18/2018




                                                                                                   16
