Memorandum of Agreement
Between the Marblehead School Committee And
The Marblehead — Unit A
November 26, 2024

The Marblehead School Committee “(Committee”) and the Marblehead Education Association — Unit A
(“Union”) agree that provisions in their 2021-2024 collective bargaining agreement shall be amended as
follows for a successor collective bargaining agreement:

1. Article XXXV: Duration and Negotiation of Successor Agreement
Amend Article XXXV as follows:
A. Replace “September 1, 2021 to August 31, 2024” with “September 1, 2024 to August 31,

2025” in Sections A and D.
B. Replace “no later than December 2023” with “no later than December 2024” in Section

B.

2. Appendix A: Salary Schedule (p. 30)
A. Remove the obsolete salary tables.
B. Create new salary tables as follows:

Year School Year Increase

Year 1* | 2024-2025 ** | Add 2.0% to all steps.
Add a new Step 12 to all Masters Lanes at 1.5% above Step 11 in the same lane.
Drop Step | in all of the Masters Lanes

* All new salary tables will continue to include the current language below the table which follows:
“School nurses are not eligible above M column and are limited to steps 1 through 9 .No movement is
allowed into B9, B21, and B30. Only grandfathered employees are allowed to be at those rates.”

**The Year Isalary table will go into effect the later of the following two dates: (i) September 1, 2024 or
(ii) the first work day following ratification of the successor agreement if ratification occurs after
September 1, 2024.

3. Appendix K: Educator Evaluation
A Joint Labor Management Committee (JLMC) will be established effective within thirty (30)
school days following ratification of this Agreement consisting of four (4) members appointed
by the President/Co-Presidents of the MEA Unit A and four (4) members appointed by the
Interim Superintendent/Superintendent. The JLMC will review the provisions in Appendix K
and may make recommendations for updates and revisions to the Parties. The JUMC will make
its recommendations to the Parties on or before March 28, 2025 for implementation the
following school year. If the Union ratifies the recommended changes and the School
Committee approves the recommended changes, the changes will go into effect for the 2025-
2026 school year, and the Parties will revise Appendix K to reflect the agreed-upon changes.

4. Article XXVIII - Tuition Reimbursement Program
A. Amend Section C.2 of Article XXVIII as follows (new language underlined):
A receipted copy of the tuition bill must be submitted to the Superintendent as evidence

of the cost of the course; such submission shall be made no later than September | for an
approved course taken prior to June 30%.

5. Article XX VII, New Section R:

R. Training: The parties recognize the value of training including but not limited to training
in appropriate techniques to address the social and emotional needs of students. The
Superintendent/designee determines the training for employees each year. While some
training may be mandated, the parties also recognize that employees are in a good
position to identify areas for training or additional training. Therefore, on or before
March 15 of each fiscal year, employees and/or the Union may submit requests for
specific areas for training to their Principal and Superintendent.

6. Add a New Appendix P - Joint Committee on School Safety

The Committee and the MEA agree to establish a joint committee on school safety with the

following members:

Appointed By Members

MEA Up to and including 10 members which may include one
employee from each of the MEA units, including the
MEA President/Co-Presidents.

Interim Up to and including 10 members which will include the

Superintendent/Superintenden | Superintendent/designee.

t

The Joint Committee on School Safety shall be co-chaired by the Superintendent/designee and
one of the MEA Co-presidents. The Joint Committee on School Safety will meet two times per
academic year (generally in September and February) outside of the student school day but may
meet more or less frequently by agreement. In the 2024-2025 academic year, the first meeting
will occur within 30 school days from ratification of this Agreement and the second meeting
shall be scheduled by the Joint Committee on School Safety.

Sharing a mutual interest in ongoing discussions of school safety, the Joint Committee on School
Safety may review topics including, but not limited to, the following: District policies,
procedures, protocols, reporting forms, training materials, and handbooks. The members on the
Joint Committee on School Safety shall work collaboratively and will strive to reach consensus

on recommendations.

The Joint Committee on School Safety will present its findings and recommendations, if any, at a
posted, public meeting of the full School Committee on a date determined by the Chair of the
School Committee between March 1 and April 15 of each year. The Joint Committee on School
Safety must notify the Chair of the School Committee by March 1 that it will be presenting to the
School Committee and request that the Chair notify the Joint Committee on School Safety of a

date for such presentation.

7. Lead Nurse
Amend Appendix F as follows:

A. Revise the title of Appendix F as follows (new language underlined): “APPENDIX F-1:
SCHOOL PSYCHOLOGISTS”
B. Add a new Appendix F-2 as follows:
APPENDIX F-2: LEAD NURSE

The work year for the lead nurse is the teacher work year as defined by Article
VII (Teacher Work Year) plus up to and including an additional five (5) days as
determined by the Superintendent/designee. Such additional day/days shall be
scheduled by mutual agreement between the Lead Nurse and the
Superintendent/designee within the ten (10) days immediately preceding the
regular work year. The Lead Nurse shall be compensated for each such additional
workday actually worked at the Lead Nurse’s per diem rate in effect on the date
that the work is performed.

8. Housekeeping:

A.

Gender Neutral Pronouns. Replace gender pronouns as follows:

Replace “his/her” with “the employee’s”

Replace “him/her” with “the employee”

Replace “he/she” with “the employee”

Replace “Association” with “Union” where appropriate.

Fix agreed-upon typographical and formatting errors while proofreading successor CBA.
Stipend Agreement — Update the stipends in the Unit A CBA to conform to the parties’
agreement

Replace Article XIX section C with the sick leave bank agreement between the parties and add
the following to Section 8 of the Sick Leave Bank: “The Sick Leave Bank is not subject to
grievance and arbitration. The decision of the Sick Leave Bank Committee with respect to
eligibility and entitlement shall be final and binding and not subject to appeal except for
reconsideration by the Committee itself.”.

Effective September 1, 2024, move High School Yearbook Advisor from Category 2 to
Category 1

Effective September 1, 2024, add the High School National Art Honor Society to Category 4.

Replace Article XIV with the following:

Article XIV - Enrollment of Children of Employee’s Represented by the Association

Children of employees represented by the Union may enroll in the Marblehead Public Schools,
on a tuition free basis, except as hereinafter provided, subject to the following terms and
conditions:

A. The cost of the education shall not exceed 100% of the District’s per pupil cost rate as
determined by the most recent Department of Education report. Costs in excess of said
amount shall be paid by the staff member (or community of the student’s residence.)

B. The Superintendent shall determine the number of slots available each year and the
location thereof and shall advise the Association on or before March 15th for grades I-
12, and April 15 for kindergarten of each year. Procedures for applying (forms, deadlines
for applications, etc.) shall be developed by the Superintendent. The Superintendent has
discretion in enrolling children of employees into our school system.

C. Once a child has enrolled in the Marblehead Public Schools, it is understood that he/she
may remain in the system, subject to the terms and conditions provided herein including
space availability, so long as the parent continues to be employed by the Marblehead
Public Schools and the child abides by the rules and regulations of the school system.

D. Marblehead will not be responsible for providing transportation to students who are
enrolled pursuant to the provisions of this Article.

E. The Committee reserves the right to terminate this Article upon six (6) months written
notice to the Association.

F, In the event enrollment applications for the same slot exceed the approved slots, the
following shall govern:

Seniority

Example: Three employees represented by the MEA (in any unit) with students in the
fourth grade file applications, The Superintendent determines that there are two available
fourth grade slots. The seniority of the employees involved shall govern which two
students shall be admitted. Seniority for this Section is based on date of hire.

G. In the event any of the provisions of this Article are found invalid by a Court of competent
jurisdiction or by an agency of the Commonwealth, or in the event a Complaint were to
issue after a finding of probable cause by an Agency, this Article shall be of no further
force and effect.

H. In the event Marblehead were to become a “Choice” community, the provisions of this
Agreement, to the extent required by law, shall be subject to the “Choice” laws and rules
and regulations related thereto.

10. Article XXII: Maternity and Parental Leaves

Effective with births/adoptions that occur on or after the later of the following two dates: (i)
September 1, 2024, or (ii) the date that this Memorandum of Agreement is ratified by the Union
membership /insert date of ratification], amend Article XXII (Maternity and Parental Leaves) by
replacing Section I. II. III and IV' in their entirety with the following:

I PARENTAL LEAVE

Massachusetts Parental Leave Act (MPLA), M.G. L. chapter 149, section 105D, provides for up
to 8 weeks of leave and the federal Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) provides for up to 12
weeks of leave for an eligible employee for the birth of the employee’s child and for the adoption
ofa child as defined by these laws. For employees who are eligible for both MPLA and FMLA
leaves, these leaves run simultaneously with each other and with the paid leaves provided by this
Section. If both parents are employed by the Committee and are eligible for leave benefits
provided by the FMLA and/or MPLA for the birth or adoption of the same child, they shall share
such benefits.

The employee shall provide at least two (2) weeks’ written or email notice to the employee’s
supervisor and to the Committee’s Human Resources office of the employee’s anticipated date of
departure (or as much notice as practicable when the delay in providing notice is beyond the
employee’s control) and the employee’s intention to return to work following the leave.

‘ Retain Section V (Extended Parental Leaves Without Pay) of Article XXII.
Parental leave is for:

a. the purpose of giving birth and/or bonding with a newborn child; or
b. the placement of a child under the age of 18, or under the age of 23 if the child is
mentally or physically disabled, for adoption with the employee.

Any employee who is eligible for parental leave pursuant to the MPLA and/or the FMLA for the
birth or adoption of the employee’s child shall be entitled to the following paid leave benefits:

1. An employee who is eligible for FMLA may use up to sixty (60) consecutive work
days of leave starting within the first six months following the birth or adoption of
the employee’s child as defined by the FMLA. The employer shall provide paid
leave for the first fifteen (15) days of such leave without deduction from the
employee’s accrued leave and the employee may use the employee’s accumulated
paid leave for the balance of the leave not to exceed forty-five (45) days.

2. Anemployee who is not eligible for FMLA, but who is eligible for MPLA may take
up to eight weeks of leave starting with the birth or adoption of the employee’s child
as defined by the MPLA. The employer shall provide paid leave for the first fifteen
(15) days of such leave without deduction from the employee’s accrued leave and the
employee may use the employee’s accumulated paid leave for the balance of the
leave period.

Employees who are eligible for both FMLA and MPLA for the birth/adoption of the employee’s
child shall receive the benefit above that is greater.

Upon completion of the parental leave, the employee shall be restored to the same or similar
position the employee held when the parental leave commenced. The Committee shall not be
required to restore an employee on parental leave to the previous or similar position if the
employee is subject to layoff, nonrenewal or reassignment.

IL. This Section intentionally left blank.
ULE This Section intentionally left blank.
IV. This Section intentionally left blank.

11. Article VILB. Teacher Work Year
Replace Section B of Article VII with the following:

Subject to Section C, the work year is defined as 184 days, including two (2) days for
administratively determined professional development before school starts, 180 days meeting
present state requirements with students, and two days for administratively determined
professional development which may be scheduled before and/or during the student school year.
The work year for employees new to Unit A is 185 days including all of the days in the prior
sentence and one (1) additional work day for orientation before school starts. Notwithstanding
any contrary provision in paragraph | of Article VIII, Section A of this Agreement, the work day
on the four (4) administratively directed professional development days and the orientation day
shall start at 8:00 a.m. and end at 2:30 p.m. with a 30-minute lunch break. Subject to Section C,
the parties agree to schedule 185 days for students for purposes of allowing for school
cancellation during inclement weather, with the understanding that unused days beyond the above
stipulated 180 days for students will be dropped at the end of the year.

12. Article XIII: Summer and Optional Employment
Remove the Hourly Rates in the final bullet and add the following new hourly rate:
Hourly Rate effective the first work day following ratification of this Memorandum of
Agreement <Jnsert date of ratification], 2024: $40.00

13. Article XX. Section A.4 (funeral leave)

Effective with deaths that occur after ratification <insert date>, replace Section A.4 with the

following:
In the case of death of the employee’s husband, svife; spouse/domestic partner, parent,
sibling, child, grandparent, grandchild, parent-in-law, sibling-in-law, sibling of a parent
and other member of the employee’s immediate household, the School Administration
shall grant the employee a leave of absence without loss of pay for a period of up to five
(5) days (i.e., the employee does not automatically receive five (5) days) but shall be
granted a leave of absence of between one (1) and five (5) days): such day(s) to be taken
within thirty (30) consecutive days from the date of the death.

This Memorandum of Agreement is subject to ratification by the Union Unit A and approval of the
Marblehead School Committee and ratification by the MEA Unit A and approval of the Marblehead
School Committee of the Memorandum of Agreement covering the 3-year period from September 1, 2025
— August 31, 2028. Subject to the prior sentence, this Agreement is agreed to by the bargaining teams for
the Union Unit A and the School Committee on this 26" day of November 2024.

Bargaining Team for the Bargaining Team for the MEA Unit A
Marblehead School Committee

Hx drm “4
LEY

