                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                   October 24, 2018

Board met in session at 7:30 p.m. in the Selectmen’s Meeting Room at Abbot Hall
Present (constituting a quorum):

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                    Judith R. Jacobi
                                     James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of October 10, 2018. 4
voted in favor, Mr. Nye voted present. Motion made and seconded to approve the
minutes of October 17, 2018. All in favor.

VETERANS DAY. Veterans Day Observance. Dave Rodgers, Veterans’ Agent,
appeared before the Board to announce that the Town will hold its traditional Veterans
Day service on Sunday, November 11, 2018 in Abbot Hall Auditorium at 10:00 a.m.
Doors to Abbot Hall will open at 9:00 a.m. Chief Stephen Mitchell will be the main
speaker at Abbot Hall. Special Recognition will be given to World War 1 Veterans on
the 100th year anniversary of Armistice. Shuttle service will be provided from the
original National Grand Bank parking lot starting at 9:00 a.m. Breakfast will be served
immediately following the ceremony at the VFW, 321 West Shore Drive. All are
welcome. People who want more information should contact Veterans Agent David
Rodgers at 7841-631-0990.

FAIR HOUSING COMMITTEE. Interview/Appointment. John E. Whipple, 106
Atlantic Avenue, appeared before the Board seeking appointment to the Marblehead Fair
Housing Committee. Motion made and seconded to appoint John E. Whipple to the Fair
Housing Committee, Task Force Against Discrimination Representative, with a term to
expire in May 2021. All in favor.

LYNCH VANOTTERLOO YMCA. Corner Stone Program. Gerald MacKillop,
Executive Director, Lynch /van Otterloo YMCA and Andy Sweetland, Board of
Directors, appeared before the Board to announce a new program they are launching
called Corner Stone. Corner Stone program offers cancer patients, cancer survivors and
their immediate families free YMCA memberships for one-year as well as:
     Access to all of Y member benefits and specialized programs to help those with
        cancer and recovering from cancer build strength and a sense of community.




October 24, 2018                          101
      A complimentary week of summer camp for all children in the family enrolled in
       the program.
   A schedule of special drop-in babysitting for parents who are currently in
       treatment.
   A non-clinical environment where cancer patients, cancer survivors and their
       immediate families can feel comfortable and supported.
More information can be found at www.ymcacornerstone.org.

CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. 48th Annual Christmas Walk. Tree Lighting.
Parade. Beth Ferris, Executive Director, Chamber of Commerce, appeared before the
Board seeking approval for the 48th annual Christmas walk and related events. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from Beth Ferris, Chamber of Commerce for
the following events and venues subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees and receipt of
the required Certificate of Insurance, and to waive the rental fee to use the Old Town
House:
Annual Tree Lighting - Friday, November 30, 2018 at the National Grand Bank parking
lot. Event starts at 6:00 p.m., tree lighting at 7:00 p.m.
Holiday Wreaths/Garland wraps and bows. Hang approximately 150 holiday wreaths
and garland wraps throughout the business districts starting the week of November 12,
2018 subject to approval from the Marblehead Municipal Light Department and receipt
of the required Certificate of Insurance. All decorations shall be removed by January 7,
2019.
Holiday Lighting. Turn on the holiday lights at the Old Town House and State Street
Landing by Friday, November 16, 2018.
48th Annual Marblehead Christmas Walk Parade: Saturday, December 1, 2018. The
parade begins at 11:45 a.m. at the State Street Landing and continues onto Washington
Street (approx. time 12:00 p.m. to 12:30 p.m.) and then onto Atlantic Avenue (approx.
time 12:30 p.m. to 12:45 p.m.). The parade route continues from the Police Station,
taking a right onto Gerry Street then a right onto Pleasant St. (approx. time 12:45 p.m. to
1:00 p.m.) and will continue down Pleasant St. by the Village Plaza and ending at the
National Grand Bank parking lot.
Old Town House: Sunday, December 2, 2018 from 1:00 p.m.-4:00 p.m.
All in favor.

HOLIDAY DECORATION DONATION FUND. Beth Ferris, Executive Director,
Chamber of Commerce, reminded the Board that donations will be accepted to support
the decorations in Town. Submit checks to Selectmen’s Office, Abbot Hall and mark
“Holiday Donation Account” in the memo line.

VERIZON. Double Pole Update. Stan Usovicz, Verizon, Regional Director,
Government Relations, VERIZON, appeared before the Board to update them on the
status of double poles in Town. The polls are jointly owned by Marblehead Municipal
Light Department and Verizon. Mr. Usovicz walked the Board through the process to
remove double poles including the need to coordinate with the other departments to get
the utilities transferred over to allow for removal of existing double poles.




October 24, 2018                            102
POLICE DEPARTMENT. Street Closings. 48th Annual Marblehead Christmas
Walk Parade. Tree Lighting. Motion made and seconded to approve the request from
Chief Picariello for the following street closings and traffic changes for the 48th Annual
Marblehead Christmas Walk Parade and tree lighting:
Tree Lighting Friday, November 30, 2018, 7:00 p.m. – National Grand Parking Lot,
In the event of an overflow crowd that creates a public safety concern the Chief is
authorized to close either Pleasant Street between School Street and Spring Street or
Essex Street between Atlantic Avenue and Pleasant Street. In either case, traffic will be
interrupted only if necessary.
Saturday, December 1, 2018, Santa’s arrival at Clark Landing and Parade. The
parking lot at Clark Landing to be closed entirely at 8:30 a.m. until such time as it is safe
to reopen. Staging for the parade will be on Front Street between the Boston Yacht Club
and State Street (including Darling Street,) at about 10:30 a.m., then stepping off from
Clark Landing on a route including State Street, Washington Street, Atlantic Avenue,
Gerry Street and Pleasant Street. Close Front Street between Water Street, State Street
and Darling Street in its entirety from 10:00 a.m. until 12:30 p.m. to facilitate the staging
and departure of the Parade. All streets along the parade route will be controlled by
police officers as needed to facilitate the safe passage of the parade. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Amend. Lead Mills Revetment Project. Motion made and seconded to
amend the contract between the Town and N. Granese & Sons Inc., of Salem, MA, for
the Lead Mills Revetment Project by increasing the contract amount by six thousand
three hundred ten and 19/dollars (6,310.19) and authorize the Chair to sign the change
order on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

TAX TITLE POLICY. Whenever property disposition through tax title foreclosure is
conducted the Town of Marblehead shall dedicate an amount not less than 10% of the
sale proceeds, in the following fiscal year, for the purpose of supporting affordable
housing and affordable housing programs. These may include, but are not limited to,
rental assistance, purchase, property rehabilitation, and first-time homeowner programs.
Upon approval of Town Meeting, the funds shall be deposited in the town’s Affordable
Housing Trust Fund. Affordable housing shall be defined as having a household income
no greater than 80% of area median income as determined by HUD to benefit from any
programs funded through these proceeds. All in favor.

PARKING RESTRICTIONS. Round House Road. Annual Clean up. Revised
Dates. Motion made and seconded to approve the request from Arthur Graves, Public
Works Director, to temporarily make the entirety of the Railroad Right of Way known as
Roundhouse Road, from School Street through to Bessom Street, as well as upper
Anderson Street from #10 Anderson through to Bessom Street a NO PARKING/TOW
ZONE area for the following dates:
        October 29, 2018 from 7:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m.
        Rain Date: October 30, 2018 from 7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
This is to facilitate the annual clean-up and repair of town property in this area. All in
favor.




October 24, 2018                            103
COMPLETE STREETS. Contract. Prioritization Plan. Motion made and seconded
to award a contract to develop a Complete Streets prioritization plan to Stantec Inc. of
Burlington, MA in the amount of thirty four thousand six hundred and twenty five and
86/100 dollars ($34,625.86) and authorize the chair to sign the contract on behalf of the
Board. All in favor.

COMPLETE STREETS. AdHoc Committee. Motion made and seconded to establish
a Complete Streets AdHoc Committee to include the following members: Town
Administrator, Town Planner, Director of Public Works, Town Engineer, Member of the
Board of Selectmen, Police Chief, Design Review Board representative, Member of
biking Community, Disabilities Commission representative, Sustainable Marblehead
representative, Recreation and Park representative, School representative. All in favor.

ANIMAL CONTROL. Dog Hearing. Motion made and seconded to appoint the Town
Administrator to investigate and hold a public hearing, on a dog complaint received from
Betsy Cruger, Animal Control Officer, regarding Case #18-14247 and 18-820-0F,
requesting a dangerousness hearing, and to report his findings back to the Board. 10 days
written notice of the public hearing shall be provided. All in favor.

PARKING RESTRICTIONS. Production Company. Beacon Street. Motion made
and seconded to approve the following roadway and parking restrictions as is relates to
the filming of EVE in Marblehead and to post NO PARKING, as follows:
NO PARKING Monday, October 29, 2018 from 7:00 A.M. – 9:00 P.M, on the westerly
side of Beacon Street, between Schooner Ridge and Green Street, for productions
vehicles, subject to approval from the Police Chief and police details if required.
Modifications to this authorization may be permitted by the Marblehead Police Chief in
order to accommodate necessary schedule changes and/or to better ensure public safety.
All in favor.

WINTER PARKING BAN. The winter parking ban will commence at 12:01 a.m.,
Monday, November 26, 2018, and continue until April 15, 2019. No parking is allowed
on any street for a period of time longer than one (1) hour between the hours of midnight
and 7:00 a.m. In the case of a snow emergency prior to November 26, 2018 all cars will
be required to be off the public way and the winter parking ban would be in effect
immediately. This information is posted on the Town’s website, www.marblehead.org, at
the entrances to Town, on MHTV and in all local newspapers. No Warning Tickets will
be given. Do not park your car on the street overnight on Sunday, November 25, 2018.
All in favor.

RETIREMENT BOARD. 2019 Annual Budget. Notification was received from the
Marblehead Board of Retirement as required by M.G.L. Chapter 32, Section 22. Chapter
306 of the Acts of 1996 requires the Retirement Board to submit a copy of their annual
operating budget at least 30 days prior to the adoption of said budget.

FAIR HOUSING COMMITTEE. Resignations. The Board received notice from
Alex Finigan and Andrew Hare as it relates to resigning from the Fair Housing



October 24, 2018                          104
Committee. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of appreciation to Mr. Finigan
and Mr. Hare. All in favor.

CONGRATULATIONS. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of congratulations
to Jud Smith and his crew, who recently took first place in 2018 West Marine J/70 World
Open Championships held in Marblehead. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:35 p.m. All in favor.



                                    Kyle A. Wiley
                                    Administrative Aide




October 24, 2018                         105
