                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                      July 23, 2018

Board met in session at 8:30 a.m. in the Selectmen’s Meeting Room at Abbot Hall
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                 Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                     Judith R. Jacobi
                                      James E. Nye

                      John J. McGinn, Interim Town Administrator

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of July 2, 2018. All in
favor.

FINANCE. Bond Anticipation Notes. (BANS). Alison Nieto, Finance Director,
appeared before the Board seeking approval on recent BAN sales. The following votes
were taken:

Motion made and seconded that we hereby determine, in accordance with G.L. c. 70B,
that the amount of the cost of the Elbridge Gerry School feasibility study authorized by a
vote of the Town passed on May 2, 2016 (Article 34) not being paid by the school
facilities grant is $506,475.00 and we hereby approve of the issuance of notes and bonds
in such amount under said G.L. c. 70B. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded to approve the sale of a $9,113,653 2.75 percent General
Obligation Bond Anticipation Notes (the “Notes”) of the Town dated August 3, 2018,
and payable August 2, 2019, to Jefferies LLC at par and accrued interest plus a premium
of $100,161. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded that in connection with the marketing and sale of the Notes,
the preparation and distribution of a Notice of Sale and Preliminary Official Statement
dated July 12, 2018, and a final Official Statement dated July 18, 2018, each in such form
as may be approved by the Town Treasurer, be and hereby are ratified, confirmed,
approved and adopted. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded that the Town Treasurer and the Board of Selectmen be, and
hereby are, authorized to execute and deliver significant events disclosure undertaking in
compliance with SEC Rule 15c2-12 in such form as may be approved by bond counsel to
the Town, which undertaking shall be incorporated by reference in the Notes for the
benefit of the holders of the Notes from time to time. All in favor.



July 23, 2018                               77
Motion made and seconded that we authorize and direct the Town Treasurer to establish
post issuance federal tax compliance procedures in such form as the Town Treasurer and
bond counsel deem sufficient, or if such procedures are currently in place, to review and
update said procedures, in order to monitor and maintain the tax-exempt status of the
Notes. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded that each member of the Board of Selectmen, the Town Clerk
and the Town Treasurer be and hereby are, authorized to take any and all such actions,
and execute and deliver such certificates, receipts or other documents as may be
determined by them, or any of them, to be necessary or convenient to carry into effect the
provisions of the foregoing votes. All in favor.

LICENSING. 1 Day Liquor. North Shore Bartending. Lee Mansion. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from George McCabe, North Shore Bartending
Services, Inc., for a One Day Liquor License, Tuesday, July 31, 2018, 7:00 p.m. – 9:00
p.m. at the Lee Mansion, 188 Washington Street, subject to the following:
   1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50. each)
   2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
   3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from Bent Water Brewing and Rumson’s Rum.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in
favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Abbot Hall. Architectural Services. Motion made and seconded to
award the contract for architectural services for the Abbot Hall Repair and Restoration
Project to McGinley Kalsow and Associates Inc. of Somerville, MA in an amount not to
exceed seven hundred thousand dollars ($700,000.00) and authorize the Chair to sign the
contact on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

PROCLAMATION. Motion made and seconded to prepare a proclamation in honor on
John J. McGinn’s retirement as Town Administrator. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:50 a.m. All in favor.



                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide




July 23, 2018                              78
