                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                        MINUTES

                                   September 12, 2018

Board met in session at 7:30 p.m. in the Selectmen’s Meeting Room at Abbot Hall
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                 Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                     Judith R. Jacobi
                                      James E. Nye

                             Jason Silva, Town Administrator

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of August 22, 2018. All
in favor. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of September 6, 2018. All
in favor.

Mr. Christensen joined the meeting.

GIRL SCOUTS. Troop 76298. Pedestrian Safety Initiative. Annabelle Drayer, Eliza
Kay and Shrreya Narayanakumar, Troop 76298, appeared before the Board to present
their pedestrian safety initiative, Stop, Look, Wave. Stencils have been painted by
members of Troop 76298 at school intersections and crossings to encourage students to
simply, stop, look both ways and wave to drivers in both directions to safely cross the
streets. The Troop presented this initiative to the Village School in June and has begun to
take this message to all elementary schools. The Troop has since been asked by several
members of the community to spread the message throughout the Town. The Troop
presented a list of locations they have prioritized. The signs are painted on the sidewalks,
before the crosswalks, using a stencil and are hand painted. The Troop has met with
School Officials, the Police Chief and Town Administrator to discuss implementing this
initiative. Motion made and seconded to approve the Stop, Look, Wave Program as
presented and to authorize the Town Administrator, the Police Chief and the Director of
Public Works to coordinate its implementation as well as the locations to be painted with
the following conditions:
      Each location be approved before installation by the Town administrator, the
         Police Chief and the Director of Public Works
      Painted area shall only be placed on sidewalks and NOT in the street
      All work be completed on the sidewalk and no workers be located in the street
      Appropriate safety measures are adhered to as coordinated with the Police Chief
      There is no cost to the Town of Marblehead
      Receipt of a Certificate of Insurance naming the Town as additionally insured
All in favor.


September 12, 2018                          85
PUBLIC HEARING. TRANSFER WINE & MALT BEVERAGE LICENSE
w/CORDIALS. Common Victualler License. Tua Tua Inc., d/b/a Junji’s. 114
Pleasant Street. Chittra Suksomboon, 328 Jefferson Avenue, Salem, Pornchai
Suksomboon, 328 Jefferson Avenue and Mintia Lottero, Milford, appeared before the
Board seeking a transfer of the Wine & Malt Beverage License w/Cordials and a new
Common Victualler License at 114 Pleasant Street. The location is1500 square feet and
its seating capacity is 33. The manager is listed as Chittra Suksomboon. Hours of
operation are Sunday through Saturday, 11:30 am – 11:30 pm. The current owner of the
license is Aoki LLC. No one present testified in favor or in opposition of the applicant.
First, a motion was made and seconded to approve the application for a Common
Victualler License from Tua Tua Inc., 114 Pleasant Street, Manager, Chittra
Suksomboon, subject to receipt of the required forms, fees and inspection approvals.
Seating capacity is 33. Hours of operation are Sunday through Saturday 11:30 a.m. –
11:30 p.m. All in favor. A motion was then made and seconded to approve the transfer
of the Wine & Malt Beverage License w/Cordials from Aoki LLC to Tua Tua Inc. d/b/a
Junji’s, Manager Chittra Suksomboon, subject to receipt of all forms, fees, inspection
approvals, Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission and CORI approvals. All Managers
must be TIPS trained or equivalent. One employee, at minimum, a manager or staff
member, who is TIPS trained or equivalent, must be onsite at all times during business
hours. Hours of operation are Sunday through Saturday, 11:30 a.m. – 11:30 p.m. Seating
capacity is 33. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in
favor.

CHIEF SHELLFISH CONSTABLE. Interview/Appointment. Jack Attridge, 67
Beach Street, appeared before the Board as it relates to serving as Chief Shellfish
Constable. Motion made and seconded to appoint Jack Attridge Chief Shellfish
Constable with a term to expire in May 2021. All in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Marblehead Community Charter School.
Motion made and seconded to approve the request from Katherine Koch, Office
Manager, Marblehead Community Charter School, for a 1 Day Liquor License on
Thursday, September 27, 2018 from 7:00 p.m. – 8:30 p.m. at 17 Lime Street for a
fundraiser subject to the following:
   1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
   2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.
   3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from Kappy’s Importing, Everett, MA. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.




September 12, 2018                         86
LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Marblehead Community Charter School.
Motion made and seconded to approve the request from Katherine Koch, Office
Manager, Marblehead Community Charter School, for a 1 Day Liquor License on Friday,
October 12, 2018 from 7:00 p.m. – 10:00 p.m. at 17 Lime Street for a Karaoke Night
subject to the following:
    1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
    2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
    3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from Kappy’s Importing & Distributing Co. On a polled vote
the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor: Mrs. Jacobi,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

ABBOT HALL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. Motion made and seconded to
establish an ad hoc Building Committee to oversee the Abbot Hall project and to include
a member of the Board of Selectmen, Historic Commission, Finance Committee and
Contractor, and the Building Commissioner, Town Planner and Town Administrator to
serve as ex-officio members, with the Town Administrator as Chair. All in favor.

PARKING RESTRICTIONS. Eastern Yacht Club J70 Race. Ballast Lane/Foster
Street. Jack Attridge, 67 Beach Street and Chief Picariello appeared before the Board as
it relates to the upcoming J70 World Championships to be held off the waters of
Marblehead. This event will host 100 teams and the boats are 23 feet long. Each boat
will be brought from Devereux Beach to the Eastern Yacht Club to be measured prior to
being launched. For safety purposes, parking restrictions were discussed along Ballast
Lane and Foster Street. Motion made and seconded, on recommendation from the Police
Chief, to approve the following roadway and parking restrictions as is relates to the J70
Sailing Races in Marblehead and to post NO PARKING signs as follows:
Ballast Lane. Parking restrictions will occur along Ballast Lane between Harbor Avenue
and Foster Street intermittently between September 20 and September 30, 2018
Foster Street. Parking restrictions will occur along Foster Street between Ballast Lane
and Nanepashemet Street intermittently between September 20 and September 30, 2018.
All authorized actions are to be performed in coordination with the Police Department.
Restrictions will only be enacted as needed and removed as soon as possible.
Modifications to this authorization may be permitted by the Marblehead Police Chief in
order to accommodate necessary schedule changes and/or to better ensure public safety.
All in favor.

PARKING REGULATIONS. Cornell Road. Stop Signs. Chief Picariello reviewed a
request with the Board for an “All Way Stop” at Cornell and Dartmouth. Motion made
and seconded, on the recommendation of the Police Chief, to have an “All Way Stop” at
the intersection of Cornell Road and Dartmouth. All vehicles traveling on Cornell Road,
in either direction, will need to come to a stop at Dartmouth. All in favor.




September 12, 2018                         87
LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Creative Spirit. Motion made and seconded
to approve the request from Peyton Pugmire for a 1 Day Liquor License on Saturday,
September 29, 2018 from 6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. at 80 Washington Street, subject to the
following:
    1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
    2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.
    3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of M. G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from Merrimack Valley Distributing. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor: Mrs. Jacobi, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PERMISSION. Boosters Annual Scholarship Drive. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Muffy Paquette, President, Marblehead All Sports Boosters, to
hold the Marblehead High School All Sports Booster Annual Scholarship Drive on
Sunday, October 14, 2018 from 12:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Shipyard Historic Survey Project. Amend. Motion made and
seconded to amend the contract for the Shipyard Historic Survey Project between the
Town and Larson/Fisher Associates to extend the contract until September 30, 2018 and
authorize the Chair to sign the amendment on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

LARZ ANDERSON TRUST FUND. Motion made and seconded that the Board of
Selectmen accept the gift from the Larz J. Anderson Living Trust. The Gift shall be used
for recreational purposes. Further, the Board accepts this gift which shall be
administered by the Marblehead Recreation and Park Commission, subject to monthly
reviews by the Board of Selectmen. The Board further acknowledges that the donor’s
desires but not directive of using the funds in relationship to winter sports. Moved by
Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Jacobi. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Lead Mills. Motion made and seconded to award the contract for Lead
Mills Repair to N. Granese and Sons Inc. of Salem, MA in the amount of one hundred
and twenty six thousand three hundred and fifty dollars ($126,350.00) and authorize the
Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Engineering Services. Motion made and seconded to award a contract
for Engineering Services to Collins Engineering of Portsmouth, NH in an amount not to
exceed nineteen thousand seven hundred dollars ($19,700.00) and authorize the Chair to
sign the contract on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

LICENSING. Letter of Interest. A letter of interest was received from Parth Patel,
Richdale, 29 Smith Street, regarding the process to submit an application for a Wine/Malt
Package Store License. Motion made and seconded, consistent with the Selectmen’s




September 12, 2018                         88
policies, that the Board post legal notice seeking all interest applicants for a Wine and
Malt Beverage Package Store License. All in favor.

EAGLE SCOUT. Congratulations. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of
congratulations to Richard Laperchia in honor of his pending Eagle Scout Court of
Honor. All in favor.

WATER & SEWER COMMISSION. Pleasant Street Drainage Project. Phase 2.
Amy McHugh, Superintendent, Water & Sewer Commission, appeared before the Board
to update the Board and answer any questions on the Pleasant Street Drainage Project.
The final step of the Phase 2 project, paving of the roadway, is getting underway and
expected to be completed by October 15th. Information is posted to the Town’s website
www.marblehead.org and notifications have been sent out to the neighbors. Residents
should call the Water and Sewer Department, 781-631-0102, with any questions they
may have.

Peter Dragonas, Kenneth Road, addressed the Board as it relates to the vacancy on the
Harbors & Waters Board. The Selectmen will be conducting interviews at their meeting
on September 26, 2018 at 7:30 p.m.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:29 p.m. All in favor.



                                      Kyle A. Wiley
                                      Administrative Aide




September 12, 2018                           89
