                             BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES

                                  September 26, 2018

Board met in session at 7:30 p.m. in the Selectmen’s Meeting Room at Abbot Hall
Present (constituting a quorum):

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                    Judith R. Jacobi
                                     James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of September 12, 2018.
All in favor.

POLICE DEPARTMENT. Promotion. Chief Picariello appeared before the Board
with a recommendation to promote Officer Brendan Finnegan. Officer Finnegan has
been a member of the Marblehead Police Department for over 11 years. Motion made
and seconded, on the recommendation from Chief Picariello, to appoint Brendan
Finnegan to the rank of Sergeant, effective November 1, 2018. All in favor.

Licensing. Common Victualler. 50 Atlantic Avenue. Marcos and Queila Santana, 25
Trask Court, Beverly, appeared before the Board seeking a Common Victualler License
at 50 Atlantic Avenue. A motion was made and seconded to approve the application for
a Common Victualler License from Fresca Pizza and Pasta LLC, d/b/a Fresca Pizza and
Pasta, 50 Atlantic Avenue, Manager, Marcos Santana, subject to receipt of the required
forms, fees and inspection approvals. Seating capacity is 16. Hours of operation are
Tuesday through Sunday 11:00 a.m. – 9:00 p.m. All in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Fresca Pizza and Pasta. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Marcos Santana, Fresca Pizza & Pasta, 50 Atlantic
Avenue, for a 1 Day Liquor License on Saturday, September 29, 2018 from 3:00 p.m. –
9:00 p.m. at 50 Atlantic Avenue, subject to the following:
    1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
    2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.
    3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of M. G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from Kappy’s in Everett. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Christensen, in favor: Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

PUBLIC HEARING. Verizon New England Inc. Request. E. Everette Bryan, Rights
of Way Engineer, Verizon New England Inc., Boston, MA, appeared before the Board
seeking permission to locate poles, wires, cables and fixtures, including anchors, guys
and other such necessary sustaining and protecting fixtures, along and across the
following public way or ways: BROOK ROAD: Place one (1) jointly owned pole no.
194C/11S on southerly side approximately 88 feet in a westerly direction from center line
of Leicester Road. Said poles to be erected substantially in accordance with the plan filed
in the Selectmen’s Office marked – Verizon N.E. Inc., No. P2018-1A2N8EP – Dated
February 14, 2018. No one spoke in favor or against the petition. Motion made and
seconded to approve petition No. P2018-1A2N8EP – Dated February 14, 2018, from
Verizon New England Inc., as presented, subject to Verizon hiring Police details as
required by the Chief. All in favor. The Board requested the Town Administrator
contact Stan Usovicz, Verizon New England Inc., seeking an update on the amount of
existing double poles in town and the plan for their removal.

HARBORS AND WATERS. Interviews. Appointment. The following applicants
appeared before the Board as it relates to serving on the Harbors & Waters Board: Rick
Cuzner, 9 Wheeler Place, Peter Dragonas, 11 Kenneth Road, Rob Gorman, Indianhead
Circle, Chris Hood, 74 Rockaway Avenue, Matthew Plauche, 2 Clark Lane, Clark Smith,
5 Rose Avenue and William James Watt, 12 Lee Street. Motion made and seconded to
place all names into nomination. All in favor. The Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye,
Clark Smith; Mrs. Jacobi, Clark Smith; Mr. Christensen, Mr. Gorman, Mrs. Belf-Becker,
Clark Smith. Clark Smith is appointed to the Harbors & Waters Board with a term to
expire in May 2019.
HARBORS AND WATERS. Alternate Member. Motion made and seconded to place
the remaining 5 names into nomination to fill the vacancy for an alternate member
created with Clark Smith appointed full member. Rick Cuzner is currently an alternate
member. All in favor. The Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, Rob Gorman; Mrs. Jacobi,
Peter Dragonas; Mr. Christensen, Mr. Plauche; Mrs. Belf-Becker, Peter Dragonas. On
the 2nd round the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, Peter Dragnos; Mrs. Jacobi, Peter
Dragonas; Mr. Christensen, Mr. Gorman; Mrs. Belf-Becker, Peter Dragonas. Peter
Dragonas is appointed to the Harbors & Waters Board, Alternate Member, with a term to
expire in May 2019.

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Veterans Town Hall. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Congressman Seth Moulton to use Abbot Hall
Auditorium on Sunday, November 11, 2018 from 1:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. for a Veterans
Town Hall subject to the usual rules, regulations and custodial fees. All in favor.

OLD TOWN HOUSE. Permission to Use. Old Marblehead Improvement
Association. Motion made and seconded to approve the request from Maryann Criswell,
Secretary, Old Marblehead Improvement Association, to use the Old Town House on
Sunday, November 18, 2018 from 1:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. subject to the usual rules,
regulations, fees and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance and to waive the
rental fee for this event. All in favor.

FORT SEWALL. Permission to Use. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Charles Leveroni, Cub Master, Pack 11 MHD BSA, to use Fort Sewall on
Tuesday, October 23, 2018, 5:30 p.m. – 7:30 p.m. (rain date Wednesday, October 24th)
for Cub Scout Pack 11 annual Pumpkin Illumination Pack Meeting subject to approval
from Recreation and Parks, receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance and to waive
the rental fee for this event. The Fort must remain open to the public at all times. All in
favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Marblehead Arts Association. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from Patty Baker, Marblehead Arts
Association, for a 1 Day Liquor License on Thursday, November 15, 2018 from 6:00
p.m. – 10:00 p.m. at 8 Hooper Street, subject to the following:
   1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
   2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.
   3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of M. G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from MS Walker of Somerville. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor;
Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT. Lead Mills Embankment. Motion made and
seconded to approve the Memorandum of Agreement, as prepared by Counsel, between
the Town and the Marblehead Municipal Light Department, as it relates to the Lead Mills
Embankment area. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Fort Sewall. Engineering Services. Motion made and seconded to
award the contract for Engineering Services for the Fort Sewall Revetment Toe Repair in
the amount of ten thousand seven hundred dollars ($10,700) To Collins Engineering of
Portsmouth, NH and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

RIGHT OF ENTRY. Nahant Street. Seawall. Motion made and seconded to
authorize a temporary Right of Entry at the seaward end of Nahant Street to allow for
improvements to the Town seawall contingent upon review and final approval from legal
counsel and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All if favor.

GERRY SCHOOL RE-USE COMMITTEE. The Chair advised the Board that the
School Committee voted 2 weeks ago to support the transfer of the care and custody of
the former Gerry School building to the Town. An Article to accept the property will be
placed on the 2019 Warrant for consideration at Annual Town Meeting. Due to this, the
Board considered the establishment of a committee to review options for the use of the
Gerry School in anticipation and preparation of Annual Town Meeting. Motion made
and seconded to establish an ad hoc committee to review possible re-use options of the
Gerry School building to include the following members: Town Planner, 2 members of

the Board of Selectmen, Historical Commission representative, Planning Board
representative, Finance Committee representative, 2 neighborhood representatives and
the Town Administrator, who shall serve as Chair of the Committee. All in favor.

PARKING RESTRICTIONS. Round House Road. Annual Clean up. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Arthur Graves, Public Works Director, to
temporarily make the entirety of the Railroad Right of Way known as Roundhouse Road,
from School Street through to Bessom Street, as well as upper Anderson Street from #10
Anderson through to Bessom Street a NO PARKING/TOW ZONE area for the
following dates:
        October 22, 2018 from the hours of 7:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m.
        Rain Date: October 23, 2018 from the hours of 7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
This is to facilitate the annual clean-up and repair of town property in this area. All in
favor.

CONTRACT. Reed’s Hill Neighborhood Historic Properties Survey. Motion made
and seconded to award the contract for the Reed’s Hill Neighborhood Historic Properties
Survey to Larson Fisher Associates of Woodstock, NY in the amount of thirty thousand
dollars ($30,000.00) and authorize the chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board.
All in favor.

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Marblehead Festival of Arts. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Katherine Barker, Marblehead Festival of Arts, to
use Abbot Hall during the 2018 Christmas Walk for the Winter Artisan’s Marketplace
subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees and receipt of the required Certificate of
Insurance as follows:
Friday, November 30,2018                6:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m.
Saturday, December 1, 2018              7:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m.
Sunday, December 2, 2018                8:30 a.m. – 7:00 p.m.
All in favor.

PERMISSION. Filming on the Public Way. Keds/Grasshopers. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Eliza Tavares, Creative Services Manager,
Keds/Grasshoppers, to use locations in the Historic District on Monday, October 1, 2018
for their upcoming Grasshoppers Shoes, Spring/Summer 2019 Lifestyle Photo Shoot
subject to receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance. No streets or public ways shall
be obstructed from normal flow. All in favor.

LICENSING. Wine Charity License. Anchor to Winward. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Pam Foy, Anchor To Winward, Inc., for a 1 Day
Wine Charity License on Thursday, November 29, 2018 at 74 Atlantic Avenue subject to
the following:
       Receipt of the required documents
       Approval from the Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission

FAIR HOUSING COMMITTEE. Letter. A letter was received from Mimi Hollister
as it relates to serving on the Fair Housing Committee.

RESIGNATION. Old and Historic Districts Commission. A letter was received from
Samantha Nelson notifying the Board of her resignation from the Old and Historic
Districts Commission, Alternate Member. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of
appreciation. All in favor.

RESIGNATION. Task Force against Discrimination. The following letters of
resignation were received from the Task Force against Discrimination: Diane Levin,
Judith Wayne and Linda Margolis. Motion made and seconded to send letters of
appreciation to all. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:45 p.m. All in favor.

                                    Kyle A. Wiley
                                    Administrative Aide

