                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                     August 22, 2018

Board met in session at 7:30 p.m. in the Selectmen’s Meeting Room at Abbot Hall
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                     Judith R. Jacobi
                                      James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of July 18, 2018. All in
favor. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of July 23, 2018. All in favor.

POLICE DEPARTMENT. Human Resource Request. Chief Robert O. Picariello
appeared before the Board to advise the Board that due to a pending retirement he will
have a vacancy for a sergeant’s position. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Chief Picariello to obtain a certified list of candidates from the State Human
Resources Division, for the purpose of filling a sergeant’s position. All in favor.

PARKING REGULATIONS. Crosswalk. Foster Street. Motion made and seconded,
on recommendation from Chief Picariello, to authorize the Eastern Yacht Club to remove
the crosswalk at the former entrance to the pool area on Foster Street at the Club’s
expense. All in favor.

HISTORICAL COMMISSION. Interview. Appointments. Pam Peterson, 21
Lincoln Park, appeared before the Board as it relates to serving on the Marblehead
Historical Commission. Motion made and seconded to appoint Pam Peterson to the
Marblehead Historical Commission with a term to expire in May 2019. All in favor.

MARBLEHEAD SPIRIT DAY. Libby Moore, 32 Summer Street and Don Doliber, 7
Westminster Road, appeared before the Board to announce the 2nd annual Marblehead
Spirit Day on Saturday, September 15, 2018, 9:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. This Historical
Walking Tour is free and open to the public. Guides will be at Abbot Hall, the J.O.J
Frost Museum, Lee Mansion, Old Town House, Tuckers Wharf and Fort Sewall as well
as Glovers Regiment and crew members of the U.S.S. Constitution. Children’s events
are planned on the West Lawn at Abbot Hall, sponsored by the Cultural Council. The
Committee is seeking volunteers for the various sites around town. Contact Don Doliber
Donald.doliber@comcast.net or Libby Moore libbymoore32@gmail.com for more
information.

ABBOT HALL. Tent. Marblehead Spirit Day. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Libby Moore and Don Doliber to erect a tent, on the West
Lawn at Abbot Hall, for the Marblehead Historical Walking Tour, “Marblehead Spirit
Day”, September 14 – 15, 2018, subject to receipt of the required permits and fees. All in
favor.

MARBLEHEAD FOREVER COMMITTEE. Donation. Motion made and seconded
to approve the request from the Marblehead Forever Committee to donate $500.00 to the
Spirit of Marblehead Tour Donation Account to assist in underwriting the cost of a
program booklet for the 2nd annual Marblehead Spirit Day on Saturday, September 15,
2018. All in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Marblehead Arts Association. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from Kristen Uekermann for a 1 Day Liquor
License on Saturday, October 13, 2018 from 5:30 p.m. – 10:30 p.m. at 8 Hooper Street,
subject to the following:
    1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
    2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
    3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of M. G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from Martignetti Grocery Co., Kappy’s Importing &
Distributing and Merrimack Valley Distributing. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

OLD TOWN HOUSE. Permission to Use. Marblehead Museum. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Lauren McCormack, Executive Director,
Marblehead Museum, to use the Old Town House on Thursday, September 6, 2018, 5:30
p.m. – 9:30 p.m., subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees, receipt of the required
Certificate of Insurance and to waive the rental fee for this event. All in favor.

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Festival of Arts. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Katherine Barker, Marblehead Festival of Arts, to use Abbot
Hall on Tuesday, August 28, 2018 from 5:45 p.m. – 8:15 p.m. for art pick up. All in
favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Marblehead Little Theatre. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Andrew Barnett, Marblehead Little Theatre,
for a 1 Day Liquor License on Saturday, September 22, 2018 from 6:00 p.m. – 11:00 p.m.
at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street, subject to the following:
    1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
    2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.

    3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of M. G. L. c. 138.
    4. Liquor Liability Insurance
Alcohol will be purchased by North Shore Bartenders through certified distributors. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Information Technology Security Risk Assessment. Motion made and
seconded to award the contract for an Information Technology Security Risk Assessment
to HUB Technical Services, LLC of South Easton MA in the amount of nine thousand six
hundred and sixty dollars ($9,660.00) and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on
behalf of the Board. All in favor.

PERMISSION. Breast Cancer Walk. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Grace Elmer to hold a walk for Breast Cancer on Sunday, October 14, 2018
subject to approval from Chief Picariello, Recreation and Parks Department, Police
Details, receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance and an approved time for the
event. No permanent markings are allowed on the streets and all temporary markings
shall be removed at the conclusion of the event. The event will start and finish at
Devereux Beach. All in favor.

PERMISSION. Brain Cancer Walk. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Anne Mizner McKay and Robin Friedman to hold a walk to benefit the
National Brain Tumor Society on Saturday, September 8, 2018 subject to approval from
Chief Picariello, Recreation and Parks and receipt of the required Certificate of
Insurance. No permanent markings are allowed on the streets and all temporary markings
shall be removed at the conclusion of the event. The walk will start at Devereux Beach
parking lot at 9:00 A.M., travel around the Neck and finish at Devereux Beach. All in
favor.

PERMISSION. 5K Walk/Run. Drug Awareness. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Holly and Mark Fader to hold the 2nd annual 5K Ryan Run /
Walter Walk to raise funds for Drug Awareness on Saturday, November 24, 2018 subject
to approval from Chief Picariello, Recreation and Parks Department, Police Details and
receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance. No permanent markings are allowed on
the streets and all temporary markings shall be removed at the conclusion of the event.
The event, starting at 1:00 p.m., will start and finish at Devereux Beach. The funds
raised from the event will be deposited to the donation account established by the
Selectmen last year to continue programs to help the young people in and around
Marblehead. All in favor.

The Chair invited Tyler and Alex Earp, 42 West Shore Drive, to the table. Tyler is a
scout with Troop 11 and is attending the Selectmen’s meeting as a requirement towards a
merit badge. Tyler shared with the Board what his troop is currently working on and
explained the process and requirements it takes to reach Eagle Scout Rank.

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Eagle Scout Court of Honor. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Nick and Heather Konz, 3 Fader Place, to use
Abbot Hall on Saturday, October 20, 2018, from 9:30 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. for an Eagle Scout
Court of Honor, subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees, receipt of the required
certificate of insurance and to waive the rental fee for this event. All in favor. Motion
made and seconded to invite Cooper Konz to a future Selectmen’s meeting to present his
Eagle Scout project. All in favor.

PERMISSION. Full Hearts 5K. Motion made and seconded to approve the request
from Jennie Sheridan, Seaside Run Club, to hold the annual Full Hearts 5K, to raise funds
for the Fit Girls program, on Sunday, November 4, 2018 from 8:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m.
subject to approval from Chief Picariello, School Department, receipt of the required
Certificate of Insurance and Police Details. The route will be the same as last year,
beginning and ending at the Village School. All in favor.

METROPOLITAN AREA PLANNING COUNCIL. Revisions. Motion made and
seconded to revise the expiration date for Rebecca Curran Cutting, alternate member,
Metropolitan Area Planning Council, to May 2021. All in favor.

CHIEF SHELLFISH CONSTABLE. Letter of Interest. A letter of interest was
received from Jack Attridge as it relates to serving as the Chief Shellfish Constable.
Motion made and seconded to receive letters of interest to serve as the Chief Shellfish
Constable. Deadline to submit letters is Friday, September 7, 2018 at 12:00 noon.
Submit to Board of Selectmen, Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street. Applicants will be
interviewed by the Board at their meeting on September 12, 2018. All in favor.

EXTREME RISK PROTECTIVE ORDERS BILL (ERPO). The Board received a
letter from State Representative Lori Ehrlich notifying the Board that the ERPO Bill was
passed by the House of Representatives, concurred by the Senate and then signed by
Governor Charlie Baker and thanking the Board for their cooperation on matters local
and statewide.

TAXATION AID COMMITTEE. Vacancy. The Board announced a vacancy on the
Taxation Aid Committee. Letters of interest should be submitted to the Board of
Selectmen, Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street.

HARBORS & WATERS. Harbormaster. A letter was received from Wayne B.
George, F. L. Woods, 76 Washington Street, recognizing the contributions Mark Souza,
Harbormaster, has made to the Town.

SEPTEMBER 11th. Remembrance Ceremony. Notification was received from Chief
Jason Gilliland that the Marblehead Fire and Police Department will join departments and
community members across the country with a remembrance ceremony on September 11,
2018 at 10:00 a.m. sharp at Memorial Park to commemorate the 17th anniversary of the
September 11th terrorist attacks and the subsequent loss of life suffered at the World

Trade Center, the Pentagon and Shanksville, Pennsylvania. The community is invited to
this ceremony.

CURB CUT REGULATIONS. Request for Reconsideration. The Board received a
letter from Carleton H. Whittaker, 10 Kenneth Road, asking the Board to reconsider his
original request for relief, which was denied by the Board on June 27, 2018, and adopt a
process change to ease driveway surface deviation approval. The Board discussed his
request and do not see their denial of his request as illogical or arbitrary. Motion made
and seconded to ask the Town Administrator to write a response to Mr. Whittaker
advising him that the Board will not make an exemption to the regulation. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:00 p.m. All in favor.

                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

