                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES

                                   March 18, 2019

Board met in session at 7:00 p.m. in the Conference Room at the Mary A. Alley Building.

Present (constituting a quorum):

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

CONTRACT. CAI TECHNOLOGIES. GIS Maintenance. Motion made and
seconded to approve the contract between the Town and CAI Technologies for GIS
system maintenance in the amount of ten thousand and one hundred dollars ($10,100.00)
and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Marblehead Little Theatre. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Andrew Barnett, Marblehead Little Theatre, 12
School Street, for a 1 Day Liquor License on Saturday, March 23, 2019 from 7:00 p.m. –
11:00 p.m. at 12 School Street subject to the following:
   1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
   2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.
   3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from Merrimack Valley Distributing. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Altus Dental Insurance. Extend. Motion made and seconded to extend
the contract for voluntary dental insurance coverage between the Town of Marblehead
and Altus Dental Insurance Co. Inc. until June 30, 2021 and authorize the Chair to sign
the contract extension on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

MASSACHUSETTS SCHOOL BUILDING AUTHORITY. Project Scope and
Budget Agreement. Motion made and seconded, that the Board of Selectmen, on behalf
of the Town, enter into the Massachusetts School Building Authority Project Scope and
Budget Agreement for the replacement of the Elbridge Gerry Elementary School, the
L.H. Coffin School, and the Upper and Lower Malcolm L. Bell Schools with a new PK-3



March 18, 2019                            27
elementary school facility on the existing Bell Elementary School site located at 40-42
Baldwin Road, and to authorize the chair, Jackie Belf-Becker, to execute the Agreement
on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. All in favor.

SURPLUS EQUIPMENT. Motion made and seconded to declare the following item
surplus and no longer needed for municipal purpose and available for disposition in
accordance with MGL Chapter 30B and the Town’s policy on surplus equipment1990
Pacific Wajax Pump, model EF28-23-23RT. All in favor.

FINANCE COMMITTEE. The Board met with the Finance Committee as it relates to
the Selectmen’s Budget Fiscal 2020. The Finance Committee approved the Selectmen’s
Budget for FY 2019 as presented.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 7:35 p.m. All in favor.



                                    Kyle A. Wiley
                                    Administrative Aide




March 18, 2019                             28
