                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES

                                  September 11, 2019

Board met in session at 7:30 p.m. at the Marblehead High School, Library, 2 Humphrey
Street.
Present (constituting a quorum):

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                    Judith R. Jacobi
                                     James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from September 3,
2019. 4 voted in favor. Mr. Christensen voted present.

POLICE DEPARTMENT. Accreditation. Chief Picariello, Lt. David Ostrovitz and
Officer Dan Gagnon appeared before the Board to announce that the Marblehead Police
Department has received state accreditation from the state’s Police Accreditation
Commission. Accreditation is a self-initiated evaluation process in which the police
department works to meet and maintain standards that have been established for and by
the profession. Three officers from different police departments spent three days looking
at selected standards that reflect critical areas of police management, operations and
technical support. The Department met 62 percent of the standards, exceeding the
required 59 percent. The Chief credited Lt. Ostrovicz and Officer Gagnon for leading
this effort for the Department.

JOINT MEETING. Library, Board of Trustees. Interviews. Appointment. The
Board of Selectmen and members of the Abbot Library Board of Trustees, Phyllis Smith,
Nancy Arata, David Ross and Gary Amberik, met in joint session to interview the
following applicants for a vacancy on the Board of Trustees: EuRim Chun and Timothy
Shotmeyer. Motion made and seconded to place both names into nomination with a term
to expire in May 2020. All in favor. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Ms.
Smith, EuRim Chun; Mr. Ross, EuRim Chun; Mr. Amberik, EuRim Chun; Ms. Arata,
EuRim Chun; Mr. Grader, EuRim Chun; Mr. Christensen, EuRim Chun; Mrs. Jacobi,
EuRim Chun; Mr. Nye, EuRim Chun; Mrs. Belf-Becker, EuRim Chun. EuRim Chun
appointed to the Abbot Library Board of Trustees with a term to expire in May 2020.

FORT SEWALL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. Update. Larry Sands, Chair, Fort
Sewall Oversight Committee and Rebecca Cutting, Town Planner, appeared before the
Board with an update on Fort Sewall. The Committee continues their fundraising efforts

and has received over $600,000 in private donations and grants to date towards the Fort
Sewall renovation project. The fundraising campaign will continue through the end of
September for anyone who would like to contribute at various levels to get their name on
a plaque that will be installed at the Fort at the completion of the project. An archeology
study will commence shortly that will dig test pits and use ground penetrating radar on
the grounds to determine where the gun placements were. The recent microburst in Town
impacted the Fort, destroying several benches, damaging the bathroom facilities and
severely damaging several trees. The Committee worked with an arborist to assess the
damage and make recommendations. Three trees, most notably the large iconic
Sycamore Maple, have suffered too much damage to be saved and due to safety concerns
and to prevent further damage to the Fort, should be removed. The Committee is looking
into ways to preserve and use sections of the trees and is working with kiln operators and
artisans who will craft various items such as bowls, ornaments and knobs from the tree
wood for purchase by interested persons with all proceeds going to the Fort Sewall
restoration project. Motion made and seconded to approve the recommendations by the
Committee for the trees at Fort Sewall. Ms. Belf-Becker, Mr. Nye, Ms. Jacobi and Mr.
Grader voted in favor. Mr. Christensen voted present.

PERMISSION. B&S Fitness. Wicked ½ Marathon. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Brandi Dion, B&S Fitness, to hold the 13th annual Wicked ½
Marathon on Saturday, September 21, 2019, subject to approval from Chief Picariello,
Recreation and Parks and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance, Police Details
and no permanent markings to be made on the street. All temporary markings must be
removed at the conclusion of the event. The event will start in Salem at 7:00 a.m. with
all the runners out of Marblehead by 10:00 a.m. All in favor.

PERMISSION. Muscular Dystrophy Halloween Witch Ride. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Dawn Sanchez, Muscular Dystrophy Association,
to hold the 31st annual Halloween Witch Ride on Sunday, October 13, 2019, rain date
Sunday, October 20, 2019 subject to approval of the route by Chief Picariello and receipt
of the required Certificate of Insurance. The ride will depart from Revere at 11:00 a.m.
travel a coastal route through Revere, Lynn, Swampscott, into Marblehead and finish at
Shetland Park in Salem. Riders should enter Marblehead at approximately 12:00 noon.
All in favor.

OLD TOWN HOUSE. Permission to Use. Sustainable Marblehead. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Lynn Bryant, Executive Director, Sustainable
Marblehead, to use the Old Town House on the following dates and times for a three-part
speaker series subject to the usual rules and regulations, fees and receipt of the required
Certificate of Insurance and to waive the rental fee for this event:
Thursday, October 17, 2019 5:30 p.m. – 9:30 p.m.
Friday, November 15, 2019 5:30 p.m. – 9:30 p.m.
Thursday, January 23, 2020 5:30 p.m. – 9:30 p.m.
All in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor(s). Sustainable Marblehead. Old Town House.
Motion made and seconded to approve the request from Lynn Bryant, Executive Director,
Sustainable Marblehead, for (3) One Day Liquor Licenses at the Old Town House on
Thursday, October 17, 2019, 5:30 – 9:30 p.m., Friday, November 15, 2019, 5:30 – 9:30
p.m., Thursday, January 23, 2020, 5:30 – 9:30 p.m. subject to the following:
1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50 each)
2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will be
purchased from an authorized source.
3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the requirements of
G. L. c. 138.
4. Liquor Liability Insurance
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in
favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Abbot Hall Restoration Project. Amend. Motion made and seconded
to amend the contract between the Town and Kronenberger and Sons for the Abbot Hall
Restoration project by increasing the contract amount by nine thousand four hundred
eighty nine and 23/100 dollars ($9,489.23) and authorize the Chair to sign the Change
Order on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Micro Surfacing. Amend. Motion made and seconded to amend the
contract for micro surfacing roadways between the Town and Indus of Braintree, MA by
increasing the contract amount by forty two thousand two hundred and thirty four and
50/100 Dollars ($42,234.50) and authorize the Chair to sign the amendment on behalf of
the Board. All in favor.

LEASE. Hobbs Building. Extend. Motion made and seconded to extend the existing
lease of the Hobbs Building, 66 Clifton Avenue to the Marblehead Community
Counseling Center, Inc. until June 30, 2020 and authorize the Chair to sign the extension
on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

CONGRATULATIONS. Police Department. Motion made and seconded to send a
letter of congratulation to the Marblehead Police Department on receiving state
accreditation. All in favor.

UU CHURCH. The Chair noted it has come to her attention that the Rainbow Flag and
Black Lives Matter Banner were both stolen from the UU Church. Motion made and
seconded to send a letter of support to Reverend Dr. Wendy von Courter, stating that the
Board is not happy with what happened outside her church and that this type of behavior
is unacceptable to the Board. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:40 p.m. All in favor.

                                     Kyle A. Wiley, Administrative Aide

