                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN
                                   MINUTES
                                 October 3, 2019

Board met in session at 9:30 a.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street.
Workroom, Basement

Present (constituting a quorum):
                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                 Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                       James E. Nye
                             Jason Silva, Town Administrator

CONTRACT. Amend. Abbot Hall Project. Driveway. Motion made and seconded
to amend the contract with McGinley Kalsow for Architectural & Engineering
Professional Service for the Abbot Hall project by three thousand two hundred dollars
($3,200) for the development of driveway design proposals and authorize the Chair to
sign the amendment on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Municipal Seawall Repairs. Motion made and seconded to award a
contract to Collins Engineering of Portsmouth NH for engineering and design services for
Municipal Seawall Repairs at Harvard Street, Lovis Cove, Parker Lane and Peabody
Lane in the amount of twenty four thousand three hundred dollars ($24,300.00) and an
optional six thousand nine hundred dollars ($6,900.00) for construction phase services at
the sole option of the town and to authorize the Chair to sign a contract on behalf of the
Board. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Amend. All States Asphalt. Motion made and seconded to amend the
contract with All States Asphalt Inc. of Sunderland, MA in the amount of six thousand
two hundred and eighty eight ($6,288.00) and authorize the Chair to sign a change order
on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Auctioneers. 12 Green Street. Motion made and seconded to award a
contract to Sullivan & Sullivan Auctioneers LLC, to conduct a Tax Possession Auction
for 12 Green Street on behalf of the Town and to sign the Legal Notice of Auction. All in
favor.

CONTRACT. DPW Repairs. Motion made and seconded to award a contract to
Kneeland Construction of Medford, MA for the interior damage repair at the Highway
Department in the amount of forty three thousand two hundred ($43,200.00) and
authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 9:40 a.m. All in favor.

                                     Kyle A. Wiley, Administrative Aide

