                             BOARD OF SELECTMEN
                                   MINUTES
                                January 29, 2019

Board met in session at 2:00 p.m. in the Selectmen’s Meeting Room at Abbot Hall
Present (constituting a quorum):

                              Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                               Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                 M. C. Moses Grader
                                   Judith R. Jacobi
                                     James E. Nye
                           Jason Silva, Town Administrator

2019 ANNUAL TOWN MEETING. Warrant Articles. The Board reviewed the
following articles to be placed on 2019 Annual Town Meeting Warrant and voted as
follows: Motion made and seconded to sponsor the following article to be placed on the
Warrant for 2019 Annual Town Meeting: Contracts in Excess of Three Years. All in
favor. Motion made and seconded to sponsor the following article to be placed on the
Warrant for 2019 Annual Town Meeting: Marijuana Tax. All in favor. Motion made
and seconded to sponsor the following article to be placed on the Warrant for 2019
Annual Town Meeting: Marijuana Retailers – General Bylaw. All in favor. Motion
made and seconded to sponsor the following article to be placed on the Warrant for 2019
Annual Town Meeting: Affordable Housing /Tax Title Foreclosures. All in favor.
Motion made and seconded to sponsor the following article to be placed on the Warrant
for 2019 Annual Town Meeting: Sharing of Administrative Functions. All in favor.
Motion made and seconded to sponsor the following article to be placed on the Warrant
for 2019 Annual Town Meeting: Gerry School Reuse. All in favor. Motion made and
seconded to sponsor the following article to be placed on the Warrant for 2019 Annual
Town Meeting: Repairs to Fort Sewall. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Abbot Hall. OPM Contract. Motion made and seconded to award the
contract for Owners Project Manager Services for the Abbot Hall Project to Vertex
Companies Inc. of Weymouth, MA in an amount not to exceed two hundred and forty
three thousand seven hundred and ninety and 00/100 Dollars ($243,790.00) and authorize
the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Front Street Seawall Repair. Motion made and seconded to amend the
contract between Granese and Sons for the Front Street Seawall repair project by
increasing the contract in the amount of four thousand four hundred twelve and 75/100
dollars ($4,412.75) and authorize the Chair to sign the change order on behalf of the
Board. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 2:15 p.m. All in favor.

                                    Kyle A. Wiley, Administrative Aide



January 29, 2019                          14
