                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                     June 26, 2019

Board met in session at 7:30 p.m. in the Library at Marblehead High School, 2 Humphrey
Street
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                 Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                     Judith R. Jacobi
                                      James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from June 12, 2019. All
in favor. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from June 24, 2019. 4
voted in favor. Mrs. Jacobi voted present.

WATER & SEWER COMMISSION. Stormwater Management Program Plan. Amy
McHugh, Superintendent, Water & Sewer Commission, and Zach Henderson, Woodard
& Curran, appeared before the Board to present an overview of the Stormwater Program.
As part of permitting requirements, Marblehead is required to develop a written
Stormwater Management Program (SWMP). This SWMP Plan is a “living” reference
document that will guide the Town’s implementation of requirements within the permit
requirements. Marblehead is required to keep records of, and report on, the activities and
measures that are implemented and consistent with the Plan. This plan was developed to
meet the Clean Water Act obligations and to help guide the Town's actions over the next
5 - 10 years. The Town is now accepting comments on our Stormwater Management
Plan. The plan is available for your review on line at www.marblehead.org. Please
contact the Marblehead Water and Sewer Commission, Drain@marblehead.org with any
comments.

DISCLOSURE. Council on Aging. Mrs. Jacobi read a disclosure, as required under
Mass General Law Chapter 268A §23(B) (3), which will be filed with the Town Clerk.

LICENSING. Corinthian Yacht Club. Change of Officers/Directors. David Titus,
General Manager, Corinthian Yacht Club, 1 Nahant Street, appeared before the Board as
it relates to an application from the Corinthian Yacht Club to change the
Officers/Directors on the All Alcoholic Beverage Club License. Motion made and
seconded to approve the application as submitted by the Corinthian Yacht Club, 1 Nahant
Street, for Change of Officers and Directors on the All Alcoholic Beverage Club License
subject to receipt of the required forms, fees and approval from the Alcoholic Beverage

Control Commission (ABCC). On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor. Corinthian Yacht Club. Motion made and seconded
to approve the request from Loretta Attardo, Club Secretary, Corinthian Yacht Club, for a
One Day Liquor License, for beer and wine only, on Saturday, July 6, 2019, 5:00 p.m. –
8:00 p.m. at 1 Nahant Street, on the floats, for a boat open house subject to the following:
    1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50)
    2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.
    3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from either Martignetti Companies of Taunton or Merrimack
Distributors of Danvers and stored separately in a secured area under the Clubhouse
building and not within the regularly licensed Clubhouse facility. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. Common Victualler. The Little Store. 9 Green Street. Matthew
Gateman appeared before the Board as it relates to an application for a Common
Victualler License. Motion made and seconded to approve the application, as submitted,
from The Little Store, 9 Green Street, Matthew Gatemen, manager, for a Common
Victualler License subject to receipt of the required fees, forms and receipt of all
inspectional sign offs. The hours of operation will be Monday – Sunday 7:00 a.m. – 9:00
p.m. Seating capacity not to exceed 20. All in favor.

COUNCIL ON AGING. Interviews. Appointments. The following applicants
appeared before the Board as it relates to serving on the Council on Aging: Karen
Jancsy, Carol Ann Paresky, Marjorie Shea and DeborahVentresca. Motion made and
seconded to place all names in for nomination. All in favor. The Board voted as follows:
Mr. Grader, Deborah Ventresca; Mr. Christensen, Karen Janscy; Mrs. Jacobi, Marjorie
Shea; Mr. Nye, Karen Janscy; Mrs. Belf-Becker, Karen Jancsy. Karen Janscy appointed
to the Council on Aging with a term to expire in May 2022. On the 2nd round the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, Deborah Ventresca; Mr. Christensen, Marjorie Shea; Mrs.
Jacobi, Marjorie Shea; Mr. Nye, Marjorie Shea; Mrs. Belf-Becker, Marjorie Shea.
Marjorie Shea appointed to the Council on Aging with a term to expire in May 2022.

FAIR HOUSING COMMITTEE. Interview. Appointment. Katie Farrell appeared
before the Board as it relates to serving on the Fair Housing Committee. Motion made
and seconded to appoint Katie Farrell to the Fair Housing Committee, Disabilities
Representative, with a term to expire in May 2020. All in favor.

TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION. Interviews. Appointments.
Stephen Hamelburg and Scott Marcus appeared before the Board as it relates to serving

on the Task Force against Discrimination. Motion made and seconded to appoint Dr.
Stephen Hamelburg to the Task Force against Discrimination with a term to expire in
May 2020. All in favor. Motion made and seconded to appoint Scott Marcus to the Task
Force against Discrimination with a term to expire in May 2020. All in favor.

PARKING RESTRICTIONS. July 4th. Motion made and seconded, on recommendation from
the Police Chief, to approve the following temporary street closures and traffic regulations as
follows:
Thursday July 4, 2019 Horribles Parade (Rain Date Sunday July 7, 2019)
Beginning at 9:00 a.m. Pleasant Street will be closed between Spring Street and Washington
Street (South) and Spring Street will become one way from Pleasant Street to Sewall Street.
Essex Street will be closed in its entirety during the staging and movement of the parade
Fireworks Display Thursday July 4, 2018 (Rain Date Friday July 5, 2019)
Beginning at 7:00 p.m.: Front Street is closed to all traffic and “No Parking” between Franklin
Street and Fort Sewall Lane. Franklin Street becomes one way from Front Street to Washington
Street. Washington Street becomes one way from Franklin Street to State Street.
After the Fireworks:
Traffic leaving the beach parking lots will merge with traffic leaving the neck and be allowed
only a right or left hand turn at the intersection of Ocean and Atlantic Avenues. Front Street is
closed at State Street to allow for pedestrian traffic along Front Street coming from Fort Sewall.
State Street becomes one way from Front Street to Washington Street. All traffic from the area
between State Street and Franklin Street as well as Pond Street will be directed along Mugford
Street and Green Street to West Shore Drive. Note that the MBTA route between the hours of
6:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. will follow the pre-designated snow route.
Festival of Arts Street Festival, Sunday July 7, 2019, 11:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.:
Washington Street is closed between Rockaway Street and Darling Street. Both Rockaway and
Darling Streets will remain open to traffic. Hooper Street is closed between Tucker Street and
Washington Street. Mason Street is closed between Tucker Street and Washington Street. “No
Parking” allowed along Washington Street between Rockaway Street and Darling Street. Note:
It is strongly recommended that anyone residing or conducting business in that area
relocate their vehicles prior to 11:30 a.m. so as to not get blocked in. All in favor.

SURPLUS. Skid Pump. Motion made and seconded to declare the following item
surplus and no longer needed for municipal purpose and available for disposition in
accordance with MGL Chapter 30B and the Town’s policy on surplus equipment:
Wajax Pacific Skid Pump, 200 Gallon water tank, 11 HP Briggs motor, 35 Gallon a
minute fire pump. All in favor.

PERMISSION. Use of Public Ways. Brand USA. Travel and Tourism. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from Victoria Shepard, Brand USA, “Ask a
Local” to video segments for their video project, promoting travel and tourism in
Massachusetts, on town property on July 16, 2019 and July 17, 2019, subject to receipt of
the required Certificate of Liability, naming the Town of Marblehead as additionally
insured, and that pedestrian and vehicle traffic shall not be impacted or impeded at any
time. All in favor.

SPIRIT OF 76 ROOM. Permission to Use. Historical Commission Exhibit. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from Chris Johnston, Chair, Marblehead

Historical Commission, to install the Mapping Marblehead exhibit in the Selectmen’s
Meeting room while the room is not in use for Selectmen’s meetings due to construction.
The Exhibit shall be removed prior to the reinstallation of the artwork or at any time
deemed necessary by the contractors. All in favor.

PERMISSION. Community Bike Ride. Revised Date. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Thomas Regan to reschedule the previously approved
Community Bike Ride to Monday, July 8, 2019 with a rain date of Wednesday, July 10,
2019 subject to approval from the Police Chief, Water and Sewer Department and receipt
of the required Certificate of Insurance. No permanent markings are allowed on the
streets and any temporary markings must be removed at the end of the event. All in
favor.

CONTRACT. Consultant. Village/Vine/Pleasant Street. Motion made and seconded
to amend the contact between the Town of Marblehead and Fay Spofford and Thorndike
dated September 2015 as follows; change Fay Spofford and Thorndike to Stantec and
increase the contract amount by a not to exceed cost of $80,962.00. All in favor.

CONSTABLE. Appointment. Motion made and seconded to appoint Timothy
Shotmeyer as Constable for the purpose of serving civil process for the Town of
Marblehead subject to receipt of the required bond filed in the office of the Town Clerk.
All in favor.

PERMISSION. Use of Public Ways. Vineyard Vines Catalog. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Kerry Brady, Vineyard Vines, to use the public
ways for a photo shoot for the Vineyard Vines Fall Campaign catalog, on Friday, June
28, 2019 and Saturday, June 29, 2019, subject to receipt of the required Certificate of
Liability, naming the Town of Marblehead and Recreation and Parks, as additionally
insured, and that pedestrian and vehicle traffic shall not be impacted or impeded at any
time. All in favor.

MASSACHUSETTS SCHOOL BUILDING AUTHORITY. Authorize Agreements.
Motion made and seconded to authorize the Chair to enter into any and all agreements
with the Massachusetts School Building Authority as it relates to the construction and
financing of the Elbridge Gerry Elementary School project. All in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Marblehead Arts Association. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from Patricia Baker, Executive Director,
Marblehead Arts Association, for a 1 Day Liquor License on Saturday, July 25, 2019
from 7:30 p.m. – 10:00 p.m. at 8 Hooper Street for a jazz concert fundraiser subject to the
following:
    1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
    2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.

   3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from MS Walker, Somerville. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor;
Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

MBTA ADVISORY COMMITTEE. Letter of Interest. A letter of interest was
received from Norm Ketola as it relates to serving on the MBTA Advisory Committee.
Motion made and seconded to accept letters of interest until July 22, 2019 and to
interview all interested applicants at the Boards meeting on July 24, 2019. Submit letters
of interest to the Board of Selectmen, Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street or email
wileyk@marblehead.org. All in favor.

COUNSELING CENTER. Thank you. A letter was received from the Marblehead
Counseling Center expressing their gratitude for the Town allowing them to host the
Marblehead Community Golf Day at Tedesco Country Club.

LICENSING. All Alcoholic Beverage License. Application Process. Motion made
and seconded, consistent with the Selectmen’s policies, that the Board post legal notice
seeking all interested applicants for an All Alcoholic Beverage License. Applications
may be found on line at www.abcc.gov and should be submitted to the Selectmen’s
office, Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street. Deadline to submit application is July 24,
2019. All in favor.

EXECUTIVE SESSION. Motion made and seconded to convene to Executive Session
pursuant to M.G.L. c.30A. §21(a) (7) “to comply with, or act under the authority of any
general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements” “(Purpose 7”) (to release
Executive Session Minutes), and for Contract Negotiations as it relates to the Fire Chief
contract. Votes may be taken, and if they are, votes will be released at a time deemed
appropriate by counsel. The Board will not reconvene in open session. The Board voted
as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

The Board adjourned to Executive Session at 9:00 p.m.

                              Kyle A. Wiley
                              Administrative Aide

