                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES

                                  September 3, 2019

Board met in session at 1:00 p.m. at the Mary A. Alley Building, 7 Widger Road. Lower
Level Conference Room
Present (constituting a quorum):

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                    Judith R. Jacobi
                                      James E. Nye
                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from August 21, 2019.
All in favor.

MARBLEHEAD POLICE DEPARTMENT. Human Resource List. Chief Picariello
appeared before the Boards seeking permission to request a list from Human Resources.
Motion made and seconded to authorize Chief Picariello to request a list from Human
Resources for the purposes of promotions. All in favor.

TREE WARDEN. Part Time. Appointment. John Fobert appeared before the Board
as it relates to serving as the Town’s Tree Warden, part time. Motion made and seconded
to appoint Jonathan Fobert as Tree Warden, part time, with a term to expire in May 2020
and subject to meeting the requirements as put forth by MGL c.87 and Town Bylaw CH
177-8. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Fort Sewall. Amend. Motion made and seconded to amend the contract
between the Town and McGinley Kalsow for the Fort Sewall design services by one
thousand eight hundred and ninety four ($1,894.00) and authorize the Chair to sign the
change order on behalf of the Town. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Abbot Hall Restoration Project. Amend. Motion made and seconded
to amend the contract between the Town and Kronenberger and Sons for the Abbot Hall
Restoration project by increasing the contract amount by thirty seven thousand seven
hundred thirty seven and 36/100 dollars ($37,737.36) and authorize the Chair to sign the
Change Order. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 1:10 p.m. All in favor.

                                     Jason Silva
                                     Town Administrator

