                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                    January 9, 2019

Board met in session at 7:30 p.m. in the Selectmen’s Meeting Room at Abbot Hall
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                 Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                     Judith R. Jacobi
                                      James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from December 12,
2018. All in favor. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from December
19, 2018. All in favor.

PUBLIC HEARING. Carry-In Alcoholic Beverage License. Fresca Pizza and
Pasta, 50 Atlantic Avenue. The Chair read a message from Marcos Santana, Manager,
Fresca Pizza and Pasta, requesting permission for his wife, Queila Santana, Broughton
Drive, Beverly, to represent him before the Board as it relates to his application for a
Carry-In Alcoholic Beverage License at 50 Atlantic Avenue. Linda Meggs, Providence,
Rhode Island, landlord of 50 Atlantic Avenue, spoke in favor of the applicant. No one
spoke in opposition. Motion made and seconded to approve the application from Fresca
Pizza and Pasta, 50 Atlantic Avenue, Manager Marcos Santana, for a Carry-in Alcoholic
Beverage License (Beer & Wine) subject to approval from Chief Picariello, receipt of the
required forms, fees, departmental approvals, CORI review and that such permit shall
expire on an approval from the ABCC for any future transfer or application. A TIPS or
BAT trained person must be on the premises at all times that Carry-In is allowed. Hours
of operation for Carry In are Tuesday through Sunday 11:00 a.m. – 9:00 p.m., Seating
Capacity = 16. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in
favor.

CARNIVAL. Marblehead High School. Devereux Beach. The following MHS
students, class of 2020, appeared before the Board: Reid Tully, President, Bryan Burton,
Vice President, Leah Veprek, Secretary and Anders Kearney, Treasurer. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Reid Tully to hold the annual Marblehead
Junior Class Carnival at Devereux Beach May 2 - 5, 2019 subject to approval from the
Recreation and Parks Department, receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance and all
necessary permits. All in favor.




January 9, 2019                             1
BELLS. Washington’s Birthday. Motion made and seconded that the bells of Abbot
Hall and all the churches in Marblehead be rung on Washington’s Birthday, Friday,
February 22, 2019 at the usual holiday hours from 7:30 a.m. to 8:00 a.m.; 12 noon to
12:30 p.m.; 6:00 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. as has been the custom in the past. All in favor.

FAIR HOUSING COMMITTEE. Re Appointment. Motion made and seconded to
reappoint Mimi Hollister to the Fair Housing Committee with a term to expire in May
2019. All in favor.

PERMISSION. Miles for Mary. 5K run/walk. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from William H. Park to hold the annual Miles for Mary Memorial
5K run/walk to support Brain Cancer research on Saturday, October 19, 2019 from 8:30
a.m. – 12:00 noon subject to approval from Chief Picariello, Recreation and Parks
Department, receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance and police details. No
permanent markings shall be made on the streets and any temporary markings shall be
removed at the conclusion of the event. The event will start and finish at Devereux
Beach. All in favor.

PERMISSION. B&S Fitness. Black Cat 10/20 Miler. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from B&S Fitness to hold the 7th Annual Black Cat 10/20 Miler on
Saturday, March 9, 2019 subject to approval of the Marblehead Police and Recreation
and Parks Department, Police Details and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance.
Approval is also subject to weather/road conditions. No permanent markings are allowed
on the streets and all temporary markings must be removed at the conclusion of the event.
All event information/materials, water cups and porta-potties shall be removed from the
public way at the conclusion of the event. The event will start at the Hawthorne Hotel at
8:00 a.m. with the last runners out of Marblehead by 12:00 noon. All in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. The Mugford Eatery. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Ericka Ayube, Owner, The Mugford Eatery, 114
Washington Street, for a 1 Day Liquor License on Sunday, January 20, 2019 from 5:00
p.m. – 9:00 p.m. at 114 Washington Street for a Sunday Dinner Party subject to the
following:
    1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
    2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.
    3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of G. L. c. 138.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in
favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PERMISSION. Multiple Sclerosis Walk. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Samantha Boland, National Multiple Sclerosis Society, to hold the annual
MS Walk on Saturday, May 11, 2019 starting at 9:00 a.m., registration at 8:00 a.m.,
subject to approval from Chief Picariello, Recreation and Parks, Marblehead Public



January 9, 2019                             2
Schools, receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance and Police Details. No
permanent markings are allowed on the streets and all temporary markings shall be
removed at the conclusion of the event. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Gerry School Re Use Study. Motion made and seconded to award the
contract for the Gerry School Reuse Study to the Harriman Group of Boston, MA in the
amount of twenty two thousand five hundred and seventy (22,570.00) and authorize the
Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

APPOINTMENT. Constable. Motion made and seconded to appoint Gabriele
Mongiello as a Constable for the purpose of serving civil process for the Town of
Marblehead with a term to expire in May 2019 subject to receipt of the required bond
filed in the Town Clerks office. All in favor.

LED LIGHTING. Bill Kreisher, 4 Homestead Road, appeared before the Board to
express his concern with the LED lighting Marblehead Municipal Light Department has
installed on light posts in Town. He has communicated his concerns with the General
Manager at the Department.

CONDOLENCE. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of condolence to the
family of R. Thomas Hamond. All in favor.

COMMUNITY GOLF DAY. Tedesco Country Club. A letter was received from
Mike McGillicuddy, General Manager, Tedesco Country Club, confirming that Monday,
July 8, 2019 is to be designated as “Marblehead Day”. Motion made and seconded to
accept letters of interest from any non-profit interested in using the Tedesco Country
Club on July 8, 2019 for Community Golf Day. Deadline to submit letters is Friday,
January 18, 2019 at 12:00 noon. Submit letters to Board of Selectmen, Abbot Hall, 188
Washington Street. All in favor.

WARRANT ARTICLE. Fort Sewall Oversight Committee. An article for
submission on the 2019 Annual Town Meeting Warrant was received from the Fort
Sewall Oversight Committee for review.


Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:35 a.m. All in favor.




                                    Kyle A. Wiley
                                    Administrative Aide




January 9, 2019                            3
