                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES
                                     July 24, 2019

Board met in session at 7:30 p.m. at the Mary A. Alley Building, 7 Widger Road, Lower
Level Conference Room
Present (constituting a quorum):
                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      Judith R. Jacobi
                                       James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from July 22, 2019. All
in favor.

PUBLIC HEARING. Transfer. All Alcoholic Beverage License. 165 Pleasant
Street. Motion made and seconded to allow M/R Rockett Management Co. to withdraw
their application to transfer the All Alcoholic Beverage License at 165 Pleasant Street,
without prejudice. All in favor.

MBTA Advisory Board. Interview. Appointment. Norm Ketola appeared before the
Board as it relates to the vacancy on the MBTA Advisory Board. Motion made and
seconded to appoint Norm Ketola to the MBTA Advisory Board with a term to expire in
May 2020. All in favor.

WALDRON STREET. Cobble on the Public Way. William and Paige Rochford
appeared before the Board seeking approval to keep the cobble stone curb installed on
Town property in front of 33 Waldron Street. The cobble stone curb was installed
without first obtaining approval from the Board of Selectmen and Old and Historic
District Commission. Additionally, neither a Dig Safe permit or a street/sidewalk opening
permit from the Town were obtained. Mr. Rochford believed they were improving an
area that had once been a garden and was not aware of the process that should have been
followed. Arthur Graves, DPW Director, was present and advised the Board on this issue
and expressed his concern with the failure to comply with the required process. The
Board also expressed concern that the proper process was not followed. After discussion
the following vote was taken: Motion made and seconded that the Board of Selectmen
approve the placement and construction of a cobble curb located at 33 Waldron Street,
and as shown in the photograph presented by William and Paige Rochford subject to the
following conditions:

    1. Certificate of Appropriateness from the Old and Historic District Commission.

    2. The owners enter into a location agreement with the Town including an
       indemnification provision running to the Town along with a hold harmless
       provision.
    3. The owners include the cobble curb on their home owners insurance.
    4. Receipt of any required fees and permits, including street opening permits.

And further that the Chair is hereby authorized to execute these documents on behalf of
the Board. All in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Marblehead Little Theatre. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Andrew Barnett, Marblehead Little Theatre,
for (2)1 Day Liquor License(s) on Friday, August 9, 2019 and Saturday, August 10, 2019
from 7:00 p.m. – 11:00 p.m. at Marblehead Little Theatre, 12 School Street, subject to the
following:
    1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50. each)
    2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
    3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of M. G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased Merrimack Valley Distributors. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Marblehead Little Theatre. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Andrew Barnett, Marblehead Little Theatre,
for (3)1 Day Liquor License(s) on Saturday, August 24, 2019, Saturday, August 31, 2019
and Saturday, September 7, 2019 from 6:00 p.m. – 11:00 p.m. at Marblehead Little
Theatre, 12 School Street, subject to the following:
    1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50. each)
    2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
    3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of M. G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased Merrimack Valley Distributors and/or Kappy’s Importing. On
a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PERMISSION. Boosters Annual Scholarship Drive. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Muffy Paquette, President, Marblehead All Sports Boosters, to
hold the Marblehead High School All Sports Booster Annual Scholarship Drive on
Sunday, October 20, 2019 from 12:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Fort Sewall. Motion made and seconded to award the contract for Fort
Sewall, Phase II Architectural and related services to McGinley Kalsow & Associates

Inc. of Somerville, MA in the amount not to exceed one hundred and thirty seven
thousand eight hundred and sixty five ($137,865.00) and reimbursable expenses
including geophysical and archaeological survey not to exceed thirty five thousand one
hundred and forty four ($35,144.00) and to authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the
Board. All in favor.

DONATION ACCOUNT. Motion made and seconded to establish a Public
Improvement Donation Account. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Abbot Hall Renovation. Amend. Motion made and seconded to amend
the contract between Kronenberger and Sons of Middleton, CT and the Town for the
Abbot Hall Restoration project by increasing the contract amount by forty two thousand
six hundred and seventy one and 15/100 Dollar ($42,671.15) and to authorize the Chair to
sign on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY. Board of Trustees. Vacancy. The Chair announced a
vacancy on the Abbot Public Library Board of Trustees. Letters of interest will be
accepted to fill this vacancy by both the Board of Selectmen and the Library Board of
Trustees. Please submit letters to:

Board of Selectmen
Abbot Hall
188 Washington Street
Marblehead, MA 01945
Or email: wileyk@marblehead.org

And to:
Abbot Public Library
Board of Trustees
235 Pleasant Street
Marblehead, MA 01945
Or email: rpsmitty@aol.com

Deadline to submit letters of interest is Friday, September 6, 2019. All interested
applicants will be interviewed at a joint meeting with the Board of Selectmen and the
Library Board of Trustees on Wednesday, September 11, 2019 at 7:30 p.m.

Benjamin Morris appeared before the Board seeking to speak with someone regarding
regulations for operating a cannabis business in Marblehead. The Town Administrator
suggested he call the office to set up a meeting with him.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:30 p.m. All in favor.

                             Kyle A. Wiley
                             Administrative Aide

