                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                    October 16, 2019

Board met in session at 7:30 p.m. at the Mary A. Alley Building, 7 Widger Road
Lower Level Conference Room

Present (constituting a quorum):

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                     Judith R. Jacobi
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of September 11, 2019.
All in favor. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of September 18, 2019.
All in favor. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of September 25, 2019.
All in favor. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of October 3, 2019. 3
voted in favor, Mrs. Jacobi voted present.

FAIR HOUSING COMMITTEE. Interview/Appointments. Teri McDonough
appeared before the Board as it relates to serving on the Fair Housing Committee.
Motion made and seconded to appoint Teri Allen McDonough to the Fair Housing
Committee, Housing Authority Representative, with a term to expire in May 2022. All in
favor. A letter was received from Debra Larkin as it relates to serving on the Fair
Housing Committee. Motion made and seconded to appoint Debra Larkin to the Fair
Housing Committee, At Large Member, with a term to expire in May 2021. All in favor.

CABLE TELEVISION ADVISORY COMMITTEE. Interview. The Board
interviewed Nils Skaane for a position on the Cable Television Advisory Committee.
The Board set a deadline of October 25, 2019 at 12:00 p.m. to submit letters of interest to
serve on the Cable Television Advisory Committee. Letters of interest should be
submitted to the Board of Selectmen, Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street.

TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION. Indigenous Peoples’ Day. Helaine
Hazlett, Chair, Esther Mulroy and Dr. Hamelburg, members, appeared before the Board
to update the Board on the Task Force. The Task Force recently celebrated its 30th
Anniversary. The Chair reported that the Town’s 1st Indigenous Peoples’ Day was a
success and the Task Force plans to organize and sponsor events for next year’s
celebration.




October 16, 2019                           105
TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION. Interviews/Appointments. Mabel
Sliney, Alexis Earp and Christopher Thompson appeared before the Board seeking
appointment to the Task Force against Discrimination, Student Representatives. Motion
made and seconded to appoint Mabel Sliney, Alexis Earp and Christopher Thompson to
the Task Force against Discrimination, Student Representatives, with terms to expire in
May 2020. All in favor.

LICENSING. Public Hearing. Transfer. All Alcoholic Beverage License. Common
Victualler License. Annual/Sunday Entertainment License. M/R Rockett
Management Co., Inc., 165 Pleasant Street. Motion made and seconded to approve
M/R Rockett Management Co., Inc. to withdraw the application to transfer the All
Alcoholic Beverage License at 165 Pleasant Street without prejudice. All in favor.

PAVING. Patrick Noonan appeared before the Board to express his appreciation to the
Board for the Town’s quick response to the neighbors’ concerns with the paving project
off West Shore Drive.

SURPLUS EQUIPMENT. Motion made and seconded to declare the following items
surplus and no longer needed for municipal purpose and available for disposition in
accordance with MGL Chapter 30B and the Town’s policy on surplus equipment:
    Two gas powered smoke ejectors
    Six, 100’ lengths of 4” large diameter supply hose
    Four, 50’ lengths of 2 ½” fire hose
    Two, aluminum pencil ladders. Two aluminum 35’ ground ladders.
    One aluminum 14’ roof ladder
All in favor.

CONTRACT. Climate Adaptation Strategies. Motion made and seconded to award a
contract for community engagement and facilitation of the Climate Adaptation Strategies
for Marblehead and its Harbor project to Salem Sound 2000 (DBA Salem Coastwatch) in
the amount of twenty seven thousand two hundred dollars ($27,200.00) and authorize the
Chair to sign a contract on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Coastal Flood Modeling Services. Motion made and seconded to award
a contract for detailed coastal flood modeling services to Woods Hole Group of Bourne,
MA in the amount of sixteen thousand nine hundred and fifty dollars ($16,950.00) and
authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Marblehead Arts Association. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from Patricia Baker, Executive Director,
Marblehead Arts Association, for a 1 Day Liquor License on Saturday, October 19, 2019
from 6:30 p.m. – 9:30 p.m. at 8 Hooper Street for a jazz concert fundraiser subject to the
following:
    1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($100.)
    2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.



October 16, 2019                           106
   3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from MS Walker, Somerville. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Marblehead Arts Association. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Patricia Baker, Executive Director,
Marblehead Arts Association, for a 1 Day Liquor License on Thursday, November 14,
2019 from 6:30 p.m. – 9:30 p.m. at 8 Hooper Street for a Marblehead Trivia Night
subject to the following:
   1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($100.)
   2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
   3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from MS Walker, Somerville.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor;
Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

OLD TOWN HOUSE. Permission to Use. Old Marblehead Improvement
Association. Motion made and seconded to approve the request from Judy Jacobi,
President of the OMIA Board of Directors, to use the Old Town House on Sunday,
November 24, 2019 from 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. for their annual meeting and to serve
wine, at no cost, subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees and receipt of the required
Certificate of Liability and Liquor Liability and to waive the rental fee for this event. All
in favor.

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Marblehead Charter School. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Katherine Koch, Office Manager, Marblehead
Charter School, to use Abbot Hall Auditorium on Thursday, June 18, 2020 from 6:00
p.m. – 9:00 p.m. for their annual 8th Grade Graduation Ceremony and on Tuesday, June
16, 2020 and Wednesday, June 17, 2020 from 10:30 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. for rehearsals
subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees and receipt of the required Certificate of
Insurance. All in favor.

FORT SEWALL. Permission to Use. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Charles Leveroni, Cub Master, Pack 11 MHD BSA, to use Fort Sewall on
Tuesday, October 29, 2019, 5:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. for Cub Scout Pack 11 annual
Pumpkin Illumination Pack Meeting subject to approval from Recreation and Parks,
receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance and to waive the rental fee for this event.
The Fort must remain open to the public at all times. All in favor.




October 16, 2019                             107
MARBLEHEAD FOREVER COMMITTEE. Donation. Fort Sewall. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from the Marblehead Forever Committee to transfer
$5,000 from the Town Celebration Trust Fund to the Fort Sewall Donation Account to
assist in the design of a commemorative book. All in favor.

GREEN MARBLEHEAD COMMITTEE. Motion made and seconded to establish the
Green Marblehead Committee with the following members:
     Town Administrator
     Town Planner
     1 Selectmen
     2 Representatives from Sustainable Marblehead
     Public Health Director
     Building Commissioner
     Finance Director
     Marblehead Municipal Light Department; General Manager and Commission
        Chair
     School Department Representative
All in favor.

CONTRACT. Clifton Heights Neighborhood Historic Survey. Motion made and
seconded to award the contract for the Clifton Heights Neighborhood Historic Survey
project to Larson and Fisher Associates Inc. of Woodstock NY in the amount of thirty
thousand dollars ($30,000.00) and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of
the Board. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Highway Building. Rescind. Motion made and seconded to rescind
the award of the contract to Kneeland Construction of Medford, MA for the interior
damage repair at the Highway Department as it is in the best interest of the Town. All in
favor.

MEDICAL OFFICE BUILDING. Widger Road. Site Improvements. Scott
Patrowicz, Patrowicz Land Development Engineering, appeared before the Board to
present a proposed site plan for work on the existing parking lot at North Shore
Physicians Group Medical Office Building on Widger Road. Motion made and seconded
to authorize site improvements to the Town owned medical office building grounds to be
paid for by the lessee which includes reorganizing and repaving the parking lot and other
related work in accordance with the plan entitled “Proposed Site Plan proposed scope of
work of North Shore Physicians Group Medical Office Building” dated October 16, 2019
prepared by Patrowicz Land Development Engineering. All in favor.

APPOINTMENT. Tax Possession Custodian. Motion made and seconded, as
provided under MGL Chapter 60, Section 77B, to appoint Nancy Connelly, Assistant
Treasurer/Collector, as Tax Possession Custodian who shall have the care, custody,
management and control of all property acquired by foreclosure, deed in-lieu of
foreclosure or by treasurer’s deed for unpaid taxes. All in favor.



October 16, 2019                           108
SHELLFISHING. Conditionally Approved. Motion made and seconded, in
accordance with Chapter 130, section 74A of Massachusetts General Laws, the Division
of Marine Fisheries has determined that the shellfish classification area, N21.2 Devereux
and Tuckers Beaches, classified as CONDITIONALLY APPROVED, now meets the established
criteria for the harvest of shellfish. As a result, the status of this area has been changed to
“OPEN TO SHELLFISHING” October 5, 2019 – April 30, 2020. The status of the above
conditional area, N21.2, shall automatically change to “CLOSED TO SHELLFISHING”
on May 1, 2020, unless the Division of marine Fisheries changes the area’s status prior to
said date. All in favor.

HOLIDAY HOURS. Abbot Hall and Mary A. Alley Building. The following holiday
hours will be observed at Abbot Hall and Mary A. Alley Building:
Veterans Day. Abbot Hall and Mary A. Alley Building will be closed for regular
business on Monday, November 11, 2019 in observance of Veterans’ Day.
Thanksgiving. The following hours of operation will be observed at Abbot Hall and the
Mary A. Alley Building the week of Thanksgiving: November 25 – 29, 2019
Monday, November 25, 2019            8:00 am – 5:00 p.m.
Tuesday, November 26, 2019           8:00 am – 5:00 p.m.
Wednesday, November 27, 2019         8:00 am – 2:30 p.m.
Thursday, November 28, 2019          CLOSED ALL DAY
Friday, November 29, 2019            CLOSED ALL DAY

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:20 p.m. All in favor.



                                       Kyle A. Wiley
                                       Administrative Aide




October 16, 2019                             109
