                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                      May 6, 2019

Board met in session at 6:45 p.m. at the Veterans Middle School, 217 Pleasant Street
Performing Arts Center

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                     Judith R. Jacobi
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

LICENSING. One Day Liquor. Lumiere Lauren. 123 Pleasant Street. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from Charlotte Daher de Garcie, Lumiere
Lauren, for a 1 Day Liquor License on Wednesday, May 8, 2019 from 6:00 p.m. – 9:00
p.m. at 123 Pleasant Street, subject to the following:
    1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
    2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
    3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol shall be purchased from Kappy’s in Everett. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

PARKING REGULATIONS. West Shore Drive. Motion made and seconded to
approve, on the recommendation of the Police Chief, the following parking regulation on
West Shore Drive: No Parking in the southerly side of West Shore Drive beginning on
the north easterly corner of Evans Road and continuing in a northerly direction for a
distance of sixty six feet on West Shore Drive. All in favor.

PARKING REGULATIONS. South Street. Motion made and seconded, on the
recommendation of the Police Chief, to make permanent the following parking
regulation: “No Parking – Here to Driveway” for a distance of 5 feet in the southerly
direction from the existing driveway at 40 South Street. All in favor.

2019 Annual Town Meeting commenced.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:35 p.m. All in favor.

                                     Kyle Wiley, Administrative Aide



May 1, 2019                                51
