                               BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                         MINUTES

                                    February 27, 2019

Board met in session at 7:30 p.m. in the Selectmen’s Meeting Room at Abbot Hall
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                 Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                    M. C. Moses Grader
                                      Judith R. Jacobi
                                       James E. Nye

                             Jason Silva, Town Administrator

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from February 7, 2019.
4 in favor. Mr. Nye voted present. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes
from February 13, 2019. 4 in favor. Mr. Grader voted present.

JOINT HEARING. Water & Sewer Commission. Interview. Appointment.
Members of the Water & Sewer Commission, Carl Siegel, Thomas Murray and Greg
Bates, and the Board of Selectmen interviewed Thomas Carroll for the vacant position on
the Water & Sewer Board. Motion made and seconded to appoint Thomas Carrol to the
Water & Sewer Commission with a term to expire in May 2019. All in favor.

PERMISSION. Use of Images. Motion made and seconded to approve the request
from Bethe Moulton to use an image of The Purchase of Marblehead and the WPA mural
by T.S. Baker, 1934 in a monograph titled The Paintings of J.O.J. Frost and to give credit
for these images as provided by the Town. All in favor.

PERMISSION. Run for the Fund 5K. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Kristen Norman, Chairperson, to hold the annual Run for the Fund road race
on Sunday, June 2, 2019 subject to approval from Marblehead Police, Fire, Recreation
and Parks Department, police details and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance.
No permanent markings are allowed on the streets and any temporary markings must be
removed at the conclusion of the event. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Animal Control Building. Friends of Marblehead Abandoned
Animals. Motion made and seconded to award a lease for the main floor of the town
owned Animal Control building at 44 Village Street to Friends of Marblehead
Abandoned Animals Inc. (FOMAA) for a period of five years in the amount of one dollar
($1.00) per year for the public purpose of operating a not for profit, no kill, animal shelter
that will co-exist and assist the primary purpose of the town’s animal control building.
All in favor.




February 27, 2019                            21
LICENSING. One Day Liquor. Friends of Marblehead Public Schools. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from Tracy Orloff, Friends of the Marblehead
Public Schools, for a One Day Liquor License on Saturday, June 15, 2019 from 5:30 p.m.
– 9:00 p.m. at 12 Clifton Avenue for the annual Summer Soiree subject to the following:
1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will be
purchased from an authorized source.
3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the requirements of
G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from Kappy’s Importing. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

PERMISSION. Ring around the Neck 5K. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Carol Meyer, Lynch van Otterloo YMCA, to hold the annual Ring Around
the Neck 5 Mile Certified Road Race on Sunday, May 5, 2019 subject to approval from
the Marblehead Police, Fire, Recreation and Parks Department, police details and receipt
of the required Certificate of Insurance. No permanent markings are allowed on the
streets and any temporary markings must be removed at the end of the event. All in
favor.

PERMISSION. Firecracker 4 Miler. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Carol Meyer, Lynch van Otterloo YMCA, to hold the annual Firecracker 5K
Certified Road Race on Sunday, June 30, 2019 subject to approval from the Marblehead
Police, Fire, Recreation and Parks Department, police details and receipt of the required
Certificate of Insurance. No permanent markings are allowed on the streets and any
temporary markings must be removed at the end of the event. All in favor.

SURPLUS EQUIPMENT. Motion made and seconded to declare the following item
surplus and no longer needed for municipal purpose and available for disposition in
accordance with MGL Chapter 30B and the Town’s policy on surplus equipment:
Live Scan Fingerprint Machine Model #RJ0452 – Version #1 Serial # 000241537.K2009.
All in favor.

OLD TOWN HOUSE. Permission to Use. Marblehead Museum. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Lauren McCormack, Executive Director,
Marblehead Museum, to use the Old Town House on Thursday, April 25, 2019 for their
annual members’ meeting, from 6:00 p.m. – 8:30 pm., subject to the usual rules and
regulations, fees and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance and to waive the
rental fee for this event. All in favor.

OLD TOWN HOUSE. Permission to Use. Marblehead Museum. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Lauren McCormack, Executive Director,



February 27, 2019                          22
Marblehead Museum, to use the Old Town House on Thursday, May 2, 2019 for a lecture
by Dan Dixey, from 6:00 p.m. – 9:00 pm., subject to the usual rules and regulations, fees
and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance and to waive the rental fee for this
event. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Front Street Repair Project. Motion made and seconded to amend the
contract with N. Granese & Sons for the Front Street Repair Project by extending the
completion date to April 30, 2019 with no increase in cost and authorize the Chair to sign
the change order on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

HOUSING PLAN ADHOC COMMITTEE. Motion made and seconded to establish a
Housing Plan AdHoc Committee to include the following members: a member of the
Board of Selectmen, three members of the Fair Housing Committee, a member of the
Housing Authority and a member for the Planning Board, Town Administrator, Town
Planner and School Representative. All in favor.

LICENSING. Turtle Cove. A letter was received from Attorney Joseph Dever, Riley
& Dever, P.C., as it relates to the status of the All Alcoholic Beverage License held by
Tevoc Inc., d/b/a Turtle Cover, 165 Pleasant Street. The license holders are actively
exploring all possibilities to transfer/sell the license and business. The Board asked that
they receive an update from the Licensee in 30 days.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 7:50 p.m. All in favor.


                                      Kyle Wiley
                                      Administrative Aide




February 27, 2019                            23
