                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                      June 24, 2019

Board met in session at 9:15 a.m. in the Town Administrator’s Office, Abbot Hall
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                 Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

CONTRACT. Abbot Hall Renovation Project. Amend. Motion made and seconded
to amend the contact between Kronenberger and Sons and the Town for the Abbot Hall
Restoration project by increasing the contract amount by two thousand three hundred and
forty eight and 36/100 Dollars ($2,348.36) and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on
behalf of the Board. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Fort Sewall Revetment. Motion made and seconded to amend the
contract between North Shore Marine of Salem, MA and the Town for the Fort Sewall
revetment project by increasing the contract amount by eight thousand five hundred
Dollars ($8,500.00) and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board.
All in favor.

CONTRACT. On Call HVAC Mechanical Repairs. Motion made and seconded,
together with the School Committee, to award the contract for On Call HVAC
Mechanical repairs to Cooling and Heating Specialists Inc. of Newtonville, MA in the
amount of twenty nine thousand nine hundred and eighty 00/100 ($29,980.00) and
authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board of Selectmen. All in favor.

CONTRACT. On Call Plumbing Services. Motion made and seconded, together with
the School Committee, to award the contract for on call plumbing services to Robert
Irvine and Sons of Lynn, MA in the amount of forty three thousand and eighty dollars
($43,080.00)and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board of
Selectmen. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 9:25 a.m.



                                             Kyle A. Wiley
                                             Administrative Aide



June 24, 2019                               79
