                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES

                                   September 18, 2019

Board met in session at 3:15 p.m. at the Mary A. Alley Building, 7 Widger Road, Lower
Level Conference Room

Present (constituting a quorum):

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                    Judith R. Jacobi

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

CONTRACT. OPM and Designer Services. New School. Motion made and seconded
that the Board vote to affirm the amendment to the contract with Raymond Design
Associates for Designer Services and Leftfield for Project Management Services for the
Post Feasibility design and construction phase of the Bell-Coffin-Gerry Elementary
School Building Project in accordance with the recommendation of the Bell-Coffin-Gerry
School Building Committee and School Committee and to authorize the Chair to execute
same. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Micro Surfacing. Motion made and seconded to amend the contract for
Micro Surfacing roadways between the Town and Indus of Braintree, MA by increasing
the contract amount by one thousand seven hundred and fifty three and 80/100 Dollars
($1,753.80) and authorize the Chair to sign the amendment on behalf of the Board. All in
favor.

CONTRACT. Abbot Hall Restoration Project. Motion made and seconded to amend
the contract between the Town and Kronenberger and Sons for the Abbot Hall
Restoration project by increasing the contract amount by not to exceed ninety nine
thousand seven hundred and twenty eight and 80/100 dollars ($99,728.80) and authorize
the Chair to sign the Change Order(s) on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 3:25 p.m. All in favor.

                                     Jason Silva
                                     Town Administrator

