                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                   September 25, 2019

Board met in session at 7:30 p.m. at Marblehead High School, 2 Humphrey Street.
Library.

Present (constituting a quorum):

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                 Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                     Judith R. Jacobi
                                      James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

LICENSING. Public Hearing. Transfer. All Alcoholic Beverage License. Common
Victualler License. Annual/Sunday Entertainment License. M/R Rockett
Management Co., Inc., 165 Pleasant Street. Motion made and seconded to approve
M/R Rockett Management Co. to withdraw the application to transfer the All Alcoholic
Beverage License at 165 Pleasant Street without prejudice. All in favor.

PARKING RESTRICTIONS. Round House Road. Annual Clean up. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Arthur Graves, Public Works Director, to
temporarily make the entirety of the Railroad Right of Way known as Roundhouse Road,
from School Street through to Bessom Street, as well as upper Anderson Street from #10
Anderson through to Bessom Street a NO PARKING/TOW ZONE area for the
following dates:
        October 28, 2019 from the hours of 7:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m.
        Rain Date: October 29, 2019 from the hours of 7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
This is to facilitate the annual clean-up and repair of town property in this area. All in
favor.

LETTER OF INTEREST. Cable Television Advisory Committee. A letter of
interest was received from Nils Skaane as it relates to serving on the Cable Television
Advisory Committee. The Board will receive letters of interest to serve on this
committee until October 11, 2019 at 12:00 noon. All applicants will be interviewed by
the Board at their meeting on Wednesday, October 16, 2019 at 7:30 p.m.

JOINT MEETING. School Committee. Memorandum of Understanding. The
Board met in joint session with the Superintendent, William McAlduff and School
Committee members Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, David Harris and Jennifer
Schaeffner to discuss the proposed Memorandum of Agreement between the Town and



September 25, 2019                         102
the School Committee that provides increased collaboration, cooperation and long-term
planning between the Board of Selectmen and the School Committee. Motion made and
seconded to approve the Memorandum of Agreement as presented. All in favor.

LETTER OF INTEREST. Fence Viewer. A letter of interest was received from Mark
Pelletier as it relates to serving as Fence Viewer. The Chair would like to review what
the fence viewer description is to see if there is a need for this position in the Town.

CONGRATULATIONS. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of congratulations
to Bob Ross on his pending retirement. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:00 p.m. All in favor.



                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide




September 25, 2019                        103
