                               BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                        MINUTES

                                       June 4, 2019

Board met in session at 4:30 p.m. in the Selectmen’s Meeting Room at Abbot Hall
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                 Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                  Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                    M. C. Moses Grader
                                      Judith R. Jacobi
                                       James E. Nye

                             Jason Silva, Town Administrator

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from May 15, 2019. All
in favor.

GIFT TO THE TOWN. Motion made and seconded to accept, as a gift to the Town, a
2006 Montauk Boston Whaler Boat and a 2006 Karavan Trailer, from Jeffrey M. Gault,
and to put in the care of custody of the Recreation and Parks Department for the Stramski
Sailing Program. All in favor. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of thanks to
Jeffrey M. Gault. All in favor.

CONSTABLE(S). Re-appointment. Motion made and seconded to reappoint the
following as Constables in the Town of Marblehead, for the purpose of serving Civil
Process, with a term to expire in May 2020: Christopher Comeau and Yeimi Reynoso.
All in favor.

PARKING REGULATIONS. Stop Sign. Homestead/Alden. Motion made and
seconded, on recommendation by Chief Picariello, to make an “All Way Stop” at the
intersection of Homestead and Alden Road by adding a Stop Sign on Homestead Road so
that vehicles traveling eastbound on Homestead Road will need to come to a stop at
Alden Road. All in favor.

FORT SEWALL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. Appointment. Motion made and
seconded to appoint Judith R. Jacobi to the Fort Sewall Oversight Committee, at large,
with a term to expire in May 2020. All in favor.

BIDS. Plumbing and HVAC Mechanical Repairs. Motion made and seconded to
reject all bids received in response to the Plumbing and HVAC Mechanical Repairs
Invitation to Bid as it has determined to be in the best interest of the Town. All in favor.

BIDS. On Call Plumbing Repairs. Motion made and seconded to reject all bids
received in response to the On Call Plumbing Repairs Invitation to Bid as it has
determined to be in the best interest of the Town. All in favor.

BANNER. Fort Sewall. Motion made and seconded to approve the request from Old
Marblehead Improvement Association (OMIA) to hang a banner at Fort Sewall for the
Support The Fort fundraising campaign. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Abbot Hall. Amend. Motion made and seconded to amend the contact
between Kronenberger and Sons and the Town for the Abbot Hall Restoration project by
increasing the contract amount by eight thousand six hundred and one and 44/100 Dollars
($8,601.44) and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board. All in
favor.

CONTRACT. Curb Cuts. Motion made and seconded to award the contract for the
installation of thirty four universal curbs cuts to Tasco Construction Inc. of Belmont, MA
in the amount of one hundred and twenty nine thousand two hundred dollars
($129,200.00) and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board. All in
favor.

CONTRACT. Elevator Maintenance. Motion made and seconded, together with the
School Committee, to award the contract for Elevator maintenance to City Elevator of
Melrose, MA in the amount of Thirty Five thousand four hundred and four and 00/100 ($
35,404.00) and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board of
Selectmen. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Fire Alarm Maintenance. Motion made and seconded, together with
the School Committee, to award the contract for Fire Alarm maintenance to American
Service of Quincy, MA in the amount of fifteen thousand and twenty five dollars
($15,025.00) and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board of
Selectmen. All in favor.

MEMORIAL DAY. Appreciation. The Board thanked all Department Heads and staff
for preparing the cemeteries for the Memorial Day services.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 4:45 p.m.

                              Kyle A. Wiley
                              Administrative Aide

