                               BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                        MINUTES

                                     January 23, 2019

Board met in session at 7:30 p.m. in the Selectmen’s Meeting Room at Abbot Hall
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                 Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                  Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                    M. C. Moses Grader
                                      Judith R. Jacobi
                                       James E. Nye

                             Jason Silva, Town Administrator

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from January 9, 2019.
All in favor. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from January 15, 2019.
All in favor. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from January 17, 2019.
All in favor.

PARKING REGULATIONS. South Street. Chief Picariello appeared before the
Board. After reviewing a complaint regarding the safety of exiting a driveway at 40
South Street, the Chief is seeking approval for a parking regulation on South Street.
Motion made and seconded, on the recommendation of the Police Chief, to approve the
following parking regulation at the entrance to 40 South Street for a 90 day trial period to
determine impacts due to this change: “No Parking – Here to Driveway” for a distance
of 5 feet in the southerly direction from the exiting driveway at 40 South Street. 4 voted in
favor, Mr. Christensen voted present.

ANIMAL INSPECTOR. Appointment. Chief Picariello appeared before the Board
seeking appointment of an Animal Inspector. Motion made and seconded to appoint John
Blaisdell Animal Inspector effective February 1, 2019 and subject to re-appointment in
April 2019 in accordance with M.G. Law. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Front Street Seawall. Amend. Charles Quigley, Town Engineer,
appeared before the Board to update them on the Front Street Seawall Repair project and
to seek an amendment to the contract to allow repairs to the staples on the top of the
seawall. Motion made and seconded to amend the contract between N. Granese and Sons
of Salem for the Front Street Seawall repair project by increasing the contact amount by
five thousand five hundred fourteen and 45/100 dollars ($5514.45) and increase the term
of the contract to February 28, 2019 and authorize the Chair to sign the change order on
behalf of the Board. All in favor.




January 23, 2019                             8
PUBLIC HEARING. Licensing. Transfer. All Alcoholic Beverage License. 165
Pleasant Street. The Chair advised the Board that the public hearing will be
rescheduled for a future date when the applicant is ready to move forward.

HARBORS AND WATERS BOARD. Interview. Appointment. Chris Hood, 74
Rockaway Street and W J Watt, 12 Lee Street, appeared before the Board as it relates to
the vacancy on the Harbors and Waters Board, Alternate Member. Motion made and
seconded to place both names into nomination. All in favor. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, WJ Watt; Mr. Christensen, Chris Hood; Mrs. Jacobi, Chris
Hood; Mr. Nye, Chris Hood. Chris Hood appointed to the Harbors and Waters Board,
Alternate Member, with a term to expire in May 2019.

LICENSING. 2 Apostles and a Saint. d/b/a Superfine Restaurant. 126 Washington
Street. Status of License. Notice was sent out via Certified and U.S. Postal Mail to the
owners of Superfine Restaurant requesting they appear before the Selectmen on January
23, 2019 to determine if the All Alcoholic Beverage License held by 2 Apostles and a
Saint, d/b/d Superfine Restaurant, 126 Washington Street, should be cancelled or
revoked. No one representing the License appeared at the meeting to address the Board.
The Board of Selectmen will schedule a future hearing on the revocation of the All
Alcoholic Beverage License held by 2 Apostles and a Saint.

OLD TOWN HOUSE. Permission to Use. Chamber of Commerce. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Beth Ferris, Executive Director, Chamber of
Commerce, to use the Old Town House on Saturday, December 7, 2019, 12:00 noon –
4:00 p.m. and Sunday, December 8, 2019, 1:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. subject to the usual
rules, regulations, fees and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance and to waive
the rental fee for this event. All in favor.

FORT SEWALL. Permission to Use. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Anastasia Zielinski to use Fort Sewall on Saturday, May 18, 2019 from
11:00 am – 5:00 p.m. for a wedding ceremony subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees
and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance. The Fort must remain open to the
public at all times. All in favor.

COMMUNITY GOLF DAY. Motion made and seconded to award the Marblehead
Community Counseling Center use of the Tedesco Country Club facilities for
Community Golf Day. All in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor. Temple Sinai. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Temple Sinai for a one day liquor license on Saturday, February
23, 2019 from 6:00 p.m. – 11:59 p.m.at 1 Community Road for a fundraiser subject to the
following conditions:
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee
       ($50.)



January 23, 2019                             9
       Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the
        alcohol will be purchased from an authorized source.
     Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper
        storage and disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance
        with the requirements of G. L. c. 138.
  Alcohol shall be purchased from Kappy’s Importing and/or Merrimack Valley
  Distributing. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
  Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in
  favor.

OLD TOWN HOUSE. ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Middle School walking
tour. Motion made and seconded to approve the request to use Abbot Hall and the Old
Town House for the 11th annual Marblehead Veterans Middle School historical walking
tour on Tuesday, June 11, 2019, and erect a tent on the east and west lawns of Abbot
Hall, subject to receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance and required permits for
the tents from the Building Department. All in favor.

LICENSING. Wine Charity License(s). Marblehead Little Theatre. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Marblehead Little Theatre, 12 School Street,
for two (2) Wine Charity Licenses on Thursday, February 14, 2019 and Friday, February
15, 2019 from 7:00 p.m. – 11:00 p.m. subject to the following conditions:
     Receipt of the required documents
     Approval from the Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in
favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License(s). 12 School Street. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Rhod Sharp and Vicki Staveacre for two (2) one
day liquor licenses for Friday, February 8, 2019 and Saturday, February 9, 2019 from
7:30 p.m. – 11:00 p.m. at 12 School Street for a production of Love Scotland subject to
the following conditions:
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee
        ($100.)
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the
        alcohol will be purchased from an authorized source.
     Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper
        storage and disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance
        with the requirements of G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol shall be purchased from Merrimack Valley Distributing. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PERMISSION. Moving Truck. State Street. Motion made and seconded to approve
the request from Nikki Stalling to have a moving truck at 3 State Street on February 1,
2019 from approximately 1:30 – 6:00pm subject to approval from the Police Chief and a
Police Detail. All in favor.


January 23, 2019                            10
GERRY SCHOOL RE USE COMMITTEE. Public Informational Workshop. A
public informational workshop will be held on Monday, January 28, 2019 at 7:00 p.m. at
Abbot Hall to explore options for the future use of the Gerry School Building. The
Committee is seeking input and comments from stakeholders at the upcoming workshop.
All interested persons are invited to attend.

CONDOLENCE. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of condolence to the
family of John Doane. All in favor.

CONDOLENCE. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of condolence to the
family of Ellis Bradshaw. All in favor.

CONDOLENCE. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of condolence to the
family of John Sparks. All in favor.


Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:05 p.m. All in favor.



                                    Kyle A. Wiley
                                    Administrative Aide




January 23, 2019                          11
