                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                   November 14, 2019

Board met in session at 8:15 a.m. at Abbot Hall, Town Administrator’s Office

Present (constituting a quorum):

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

OLD TOWN HOUSE. Permission to Use. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Betty Breuhaus to use the Old Town House on Saturday, November 30,
2019 from 6:00 p.m. – 10:00 p.m., for a Book Launch Party subject to the usual rules,
regulations fees and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance naming the Town of
Marblehead as additionally insured. All in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Old Town House. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Betty Breuhaus for a 1 Day Liquor License on
Saturday, November 30, 2019 from 7:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m. at the Old Town House for a Book
Launch Party subject to the following:
   1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($100.)
   2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.
   3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of G. L. c. 138.
   4. Liquor Liability Insurance
   5. No alcohol is allowed to remain on the premises unattended or overnight.

On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn 8:20 a.m. All in favor.

                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

