                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES

                                   October 30, 2019

Board met in session at 7:30 p.m. at Marblehead High School, Humphrey Street
Library

Present (constituting a quorum):

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                    Judith R. Jacobi
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of October 16, 2019. All
in favor.

3 VOICES. Speaker Series. Judy Gates appeared before the Board to announce the
upcoming 3 Voices program on Sunday, November 3, 2019 at 2:00 p.m. at the Masonic
Hall. “What makes an age-friendly community” is the topic. 3 Voices programs are free
and open to the public

VETERANS DAY. Veterans Day Observance. Dave Rodgers, Veterans’ Agent, and
Robert Erbetta appeared before the Board to announce that the Town will hold its
traditional Veterans Day service on Monday, November 11, 2019 at the Old Town House
at 10:00 a.m. Doors to the Old Town House will open at 9:00 a.m. James Full, USN
Retired, will be the main speaker at the Old Town House. Mr. Erbetta announced that the
Legion Room in the basement will be open to the public from 9:00 am – 12:00 p.m. as
well. Shuttle service will be provided from the original National Grand Bank parking lot
starting at 9:00 a.m. Breakfast will be served immediately following the ceremony at the
VFW, 321 West Shore Drive. All are welcome. For more information contact Veterans
Agent David Rodgers at 7841-631-0990.

PARKING REGULATIONS. Old Town House. Veterans’ Day. Motion made and
seconded, on recommendation of the Police Chief, to designate all parking spaces directly
abutting the Town House, on Monday, November 11, 2019, to be used for the purpose of
facilitating the Veterans’ Day Ceremony and shuttle bus, as deemed appropriate by the
Veterans’ Agent. All in favor.

HISTORICAL COMMISISION. Archival Facility. Update. Chris Johnston, Chair,
Marblehead Historical Commission, appeared before the Board to present a status update



October 30, 2019                          110
on the Archival Facility. The impetus for this project was provided by the $700,000
Terrien gift to the Town. The objective is to create an environmentally controlled town-
wide archival facility. The Archives Advisory Committee, established in 2017, projects
the project to be completed in September 2023.

POLICE DEPARTMENT. Appointment. Chief Picariello appeared before the Board
with Matthew Cashman requesting appointment of Matthew Cashman as full time
permanent police officer. Motion made and seconded to appoint Matthew Cashman as
permanent full time officer for the Town of Marblehead effective January 13, 2020. All
in favor.

APPOINTMENT. Town Treasurer/Collector. Nancy Connelly appeared before the
Board. Motion made and seconded to appoint Nancy E. Connelly Town
Treasurer/Collector with a term to expire in May 2020. All in favor.

CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. 49th Annual Christmas Walk. Tree Lighting.
Parade. Beth Ferris, Executive Director, Chamber of Commerce, appeared before the
Board seeking approval for the 49th annual Christmas walk and related events. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from Beth Ferris, Chamber of Commerce for
the following events and venues subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees and receipt of
the required Certificate of Insurance, and to waive the rental fee to use the Old Town
House:
Annual Tree Lighting - Friday, December 6, 2019 at the National Grand Bank parking
lot. Event starts at 6:00 p.m., tree lighting at 7:00 p.m.
Holiday Wreaths/Garland wraps and bows. Hang approximately 150 holiday wreaths
and garland wraps throughout the business districts starting the week of November 18,
2019 subject to approval from the Marblehead Municipal Light Department and receipt
of the required Certificate of Insurance. All decorations shall be removed by January 7,
2020.
Holiday Lighting. Turn on the holiday lights at the Old Town House and State Street
Landing by Friday, November 22, 2019.
49th Annual Marblehead Christmas Walk Parade: Saturday, December 7, 2019. The
parade begins at 11:45 a.m. at the State Street Landing and continues onto Washington
Street (approx. time 12:00 p.m. to 12:30 p.m.) and then onto Atlantic Avenue (approx.
time 12:30 p.m. to 12:45 p.m.). The parade route continues from the Police Station,
taking a right onto Gerry Street then a right onto Pleasant St. (approx. time 12:45 p.m. to
1:00 p.m.) and will continue down Pleasant St. by the Village Plaza and ending at the
National Grand Bank parking lot. All in favor.
The Town is accepting donations to the Holiday Decoration Donation Fund. Make
checks payable to the Town of Marblehead and mail/drop off at Abbot Hall, 188
Washington Street

PARKING RESTRICTIONS. Tree Lighting/Christmas Walk/Parade. Motion made
and seconded to approve the following parking regulations and traffic flow changes on
recommendation of the Police Chief:
Tree Lighting, December 6, 2019 - 7:00 p.m.



October 30, 2019                            111
In the event of an overflow crowd that creates a public safety concern, the board
authorized the Chief of Police to close either Pleasant Street between School Street and
Spring Street or Essex Street between Atlantic Avenue and Pleasant Street. In either
case, traffic will be interrupted only if necessary.
Santa’s Arrival at Clark Landing, December 7, 2019 - at about 9:30 a.m.
The parking lot at Clark Landing to be closed in its entirety at 8:30 a.m. until such time as
it is safe to reopen.
Christmas Walk Parade December 7, 2019
Staging for the parade will be on Front Street between the Boston Yacht Club and State
Street (including Darling Street,) at about 10:30 a.m., then stepping off from Clark
Landing on a route including State Street, Washington Street, Atlantic Avenue, Gerry
Street and Pleasant Street. The closure of Front Street between Water Street and State
Street and Darling Street in its entirety from 10:00 a.m. until 12:30 p.m. All streets along
the parade route will be controlled by police officers as needed to facilitate the safe
passage of the parade.
All in favor.

OVERNIGHT PARKING BAN. Discussion. Chief Picariello appeared before the
Board to discuss the town’s current overnight parking ban. The Chief and the Town
Administrator have been meeting with various department heads and residents to review
and discuss implementation of a temporary snow emergency ban as opposed to an
overnight parking ban. Motion made and seconded to delay the start of the Overnight
Parking Ban. All in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Handel & Haydn Society. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Rebecca Sullivan, Senior Manager, Handel &
Haydn, for a 1 Day Liquor License on Saturday, November 9, 2019 from 5:00 p.m. –
10:00 p.m. at 112 Washington Street for a performance and reception subject to the
following:
    1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($100.)
    2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
    3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from MS Walker. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Temple Sinai. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Susan Weiner, Executive Director, Temple Sinai, for a 1 Day
Liquor License on Saturday, November 16, 2019 from 6:00 p.m. – 11:59 p.m. at Temple
Sinai, One Community Road for an RnB Concert subject to the following:
   1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($100.)
   2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.



October 30, 2019                            112
   3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from Kappy’s Importing or Merrimack Valley Distributing.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in
favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

DONATION ACCOUNT. Marblehead Family Fund. Hobbs Playground. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from Nicole Connolly, Marblehead Family
Fund, to establish a separate donation account for their capital campaign to rehabilitate
Hobbs Playground. All in favor.

VOTE. Sale of Property. 12 Green Street. Motion made and seconded to authorize
the Town to execute the sale of the property at 12 Green Street located in Marblehead to
James Finn of Beverly, MA in the amount of three hundred and fifty five thousand
($355,000.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Job Classification Study. Motion made and seconded to award the
contract for a job classification study to GovHR of Northbrook, Illinois in an amount not
to exceed forty nine thousand eight hundred and fifty dollars ($49,850.00) and
to authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

BUDGET REVIEW COMMITTEE. Appointments. Motion made and seconded to
appoint Moses Grader and Jackie Belf-Becker to the Budget Review Committee. All in
favor.

GREEN MARBLEHEAD COMMITTEE. Appointment. Motion made and seconded
to appoint Judith R. Jacobi to the Green Marblehead Committee, Selectmen’s
Representative. All in favor.

PARKING RESTRICTIONS. No Parking/Tow Zone. Washington Square. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from Ryan DeRoo, Kelley Tree, to
temporarily make Washington Square, #4 and #8, on both sides of the street, a NO
PARKING/TOW ZONE area on Friday, November 1, 2019 from 8:00 a,m. – 11:00
a.m., to remove a tree, subject to approval from the Police Chief and receipt of the
required Certificate of Insurance. All in favor.

DISABILITIES COMMITTEE. Vacancy. The Board will receive letters of interest to
serve on the Disabilities Commission. Deadline to submit letters of interest is Friday,
November 15, 2019 at 12:00 noon. All applicants will be interviewed at the Boards
meeting on Wednesday, November 20, 2019 at 7:30 p.m.

CABLE ADVISORY COMMITTEE. Applicant. The Board interviewed Nils Skaane
at their meeting on October 16, 2019. The Board would like Mr. Skaane to contact the
ethics commission to determine if there are any perceived or real conflicts relating to his
business dealings and asked the Town Administrator to report back to the Board on this.



October 30, 2019                           113
APPRECIATION. A letter was received from Pack 11 Cub Scout Troop Leaders
thanking the Board for permission to use Fort Sewall for the scouts’ Pumpkin
Illumination event.

EXECUTIVE SESSION. Motion made and seconded to go into Executive Session
under M.G.L. c. 30A, Sec. 21 for the purpose of discussing strategy with respect to
litigation, namely Hogan, et al. v. Coletti, et al., Essex County Superior Court Docket No.
1677CV00530, where an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating
position of the Town. Votes may be taken, and if they are votes will be released at a time
deemed appropriate by counsel. The Board will not reconvene in open session. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor;
Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

The Board adjourned to Executive Session at 8:55 p.m.



                                      Kyle A. Wiley
                                      Administrative Aide




October 30, 2019                           114
