                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                    January 17, 2019

Board met in session at 8:00 a.m. in the Selectmen’s Meeting Room at Abbot Hall
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                 Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                     Judith R. Jacobi
                                      James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

BUDGET. School Department. The Chair explained how the meeting would be
structured: Town Administrator will give an overview and frame the discussion, the
Chair will follow with comments and then the Chairman and Vice Chairs of the Finance
Committee will offer comments. Public comment will be received before the Board
deliberates and any votes are taken. Further public comment will be taken if necessary.

Jason Silva, Town Administrator, presented the following overview of the current
situation in FY19 and moving forward to FY20. In FY19 the Town is facing a deficit in
the School Department. The original deficit of $643,000, as reported by the School
Department has now grown to $731,000. Steps have been taken by both the Schools and
the Town to address this problem. The Schools made initial budget reductions in the
amount of $200,000, and another $100,000 has been reduced in a second round of budget
cuts. With these reductions a $78,000 budget shortfall still remains. This deficit was
caused by 2 factors: 1) legitimate growth in Special Education students being placed out
of district; 2) paying Special Education bills from FY18 in FY19 which created a deficit
from day one of FY20. This procedure of paying bills from one fiscal year in the
following fiscal year is not allowed under State Municipal Finance Laws. Once Town
management became aware of this situation the Town engaged Powers and Sullivan to
conduct an investigation and audit to allow the Town to have a complete understanding
of what happened and assistance in fully quantifying the problem financially. The report
produced by Powers and Sullivan did in fact state that Special Education bills were held
in FY2018 and paid in FY2019. The Town has had discussions with the all parties
involved to ensure this does not happen again and has put procedures and practices in
place to strengthen the oversight of this process. The deficit is projected to be well over
$1,000,000 million dollars moving forward in FY20. In light of this situation the Town
Administrator sent out a budget message to all Department Heads that outlines his
request for each department to submit a level funded budget as well as a 10% reduced
budget and to review/conduct a fee analyses in their department and look at how they
compare with local communities. The Town Administrator met individually with each

Department Head and stated that he was impressed, and optimistic, with everyone’s
response to this problem and was convinced that each department head with take a team
approach to this problem. The meetings were very productive and everyone was willing
to look at their budgets and operations, find savings where possible, and look at ways
they can do things differently. The Town Administrator expressed his appreciation to all
department heads. The request for a 10% reduced budget is an exercise to see where, if
possible, departments could make reductions without having a significant impact to
services presently provided by the Town. During conversations with the schools it was
abundantly clear that everyone on both the Town and the Schools side is concerned.
Reductions to the budget should have been made at the beginning of the school year - and
not in the middle - in order to allow thoughtful planning on how to make reductions to
minimize the impact on the School Department and to ensure a properly balanced budget.
The Town has reviewed how we could help minimize the impact to our schools and the
students. The Town Administrator and Finance Director have identified $350,000 in
savings in this fiscal year’s town budget to contribute to addressing the School
Department deficit. Both are comfortable with transferring these funds without any
disruption to Town services. This transfer requires both approval from Board of
Selectmen and Finance Committee.

The Chair read a prepared statement stating that this is the first time the Board has met to
discuss this issue and reiterated that the Board of Selectmen, Finance Committee or
anyone else in town were not complicit in the School Department’s action. The Board
was not aware that FY18 bills were being held and paid in FY19. Once the Board became
aware they took swift action to address it and called in Powers and Sullivan to conduct an
investigation and report the findings to the Board. Several liaison meetings have been
held with the schools in an effort to move forward. The Board has tried to take a
collaborative approach with the Schools. The Schools must take ownership and
responsibility for their decisions to pay bills incorrectly and not blame other boards for
this. The Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee are not responsible for actions
taken by the School Department. The Board of Selectmen and the School Committee are
autonomous Boards and work independently of each other. The Superintendent’s
response that everyone knew about this is simply not true and there is no evidence to
support this claim. While there was knowledge of a deficit the schools were facing, no
one was ever advised of their intention to hold bills to be paid in the next fiscal year. We
must move forward in collaborative way to work together for the good of the town.
While the Board is concerned about the School Departments actions, we will discuss
potentially giving the schools $350,000 towards their fiscal year 2019 deficit because we
want the schools to succeed and the students are blameless in what has been done and
should not be punished. The Town relies on all its departments for the services it
receives. It has been made abundantly clear to all that these practices are never to be
used again. We need to move forward together for the good of the Town, its residents
and students.

Ben Berman, Chair, Emily Belfbecker and Blair Nelson, Vice Chairs, came before the
Selectmen. The Finance Committee Chair walked through the last several weeks and
broke down in detail the school budget numbers in question. The Finance Committee has

been very engaged in discussions with the Schools and the Town. The Chair commended
the Town Administrator and the Finance Director for working hard to find the $350,000.
The Chair supports the transfer of $350,000 to the School and he believes the Finance
Committee will support it as well. The Finance Committee is deeply concerned with the
leadership and direction of the schools and the issue we are faced with right now.
Alison Nieto, Finance Director, addressed the Board. The potential $350,000 savings is
identified in a variety of areas; salary savings from vacancies, health insurance line item,
Energy Reserve Fund are some of the sources. The Town Administrator said this is a fix
for FY19 and may not be sustainable moving forward. Town services will not be
affected by this potential $350,000 transfer.

Ms. Nieto advised the Board that procedures have been instituted in her office that all
school bills that come to the accounting office will now be double checked by a second
person (Finance Director).

Ms. Jacobi read a prepared statement. Special Education funding has been a problem for
many years. The needs of special education students and the legal reasons and necessity
for Individualized Education Programs (known as IEPs) for diagnosed students is clearly
understood. It is our moral obligation to ensure that each of these classified students
receives the appropriate education and that often students must be sent out of district to a
setting appropriate for them. Many of these cuts will begin a downhill spiral for our
teachers that will impact our children’s learning. It is critical that our schools include not
only the basics but additional programs that make Marblehead highly and rightfully
respected so that parents and all residents trust and support our schools. The way the
current deficit has been addressed by the central school administration and the blame that
has been placed on innocent others is appalling. A serious mistake was made, and it
began with the school administration. The claims by the superintendent that the chair of
the Finance Committee, the liaisons from the Finance Committee, the Town
Administrator, and the Finance Director were aware of the FY18 Special Education and
deficit and the paying of the bills in the next fiscal year is not believed. Having complete
confidence in those on the town side of government who have been currently working
diligently to solve the problem all in the best interest of the entire town, in the end, we are
all one town and that for our children and for the health of the entire town, I fully support
helping the schools financially but I don’t want it to be at the expense of other town
departments.

Mr. Grader felt the Board had a very thorough and thoughtful discussion. It appears to be
a budget/cash management issue. Hopefully moving forward this will be improved with
more transparency.

Public comment was taken at this time.

Motion made and seconded to support a year end transfer, of $350,000, from the Town to
the Schools to assist in addressing the FY19 budget deficit. All in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. The Mugford Eatery. Motion made and
seconded to revise the previously approved date for a 1 Day Liquor License from Ericka
Ayube, Owner, The Mugford Eatery, 114 Washington Street, to Sunday, January 27,
2019 from 5:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m. at 114 Washington Street for a Sunday Dinner Party
subject to the following:
   1. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
   2. Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
   3. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in
favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

ANIMAL CONTROL. Dog Hearing. Motion made and seconded to appoint the Town
Administrator to investigate and hold a public hearing on a request for a dangerous dog
hearing on a dog complaint received from Elena Siniaver and to report his findings back
to the Board. 10 days written notice of the public hearing shall be provided to the dog
owner. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 9:25 a.m.

                                    Kyle A. Wiley
                                    Administrative Aide

