                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES
                                     March 23, 2020

Board met in session remotely at 4:00 p.m.

Present via remote Dial-in number (US): (605) 313-5906 (constituting a quorum)
Access code: 286609#

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                 Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                     Judith R. Jacobi
                                      James E. Nye

                       Jason Silva, Town Administrator, remotely

The Chair called the meeting of Monday, March 23, 2020 to order. On a roll call vote by
the Town Administrator the following Board members participated in this meeting: Mr.
Christensen, Mr. Grader, Mr. Nye, Mrs. Jacobi and Mrs. Belf-Becker.

The following members of the Board of Health joined the meeting remotely: Helaine
Hazlett, Michelle Gottlieb, Todd Belfbecker and Andrew Petty, Director of Public
Health.

Andrew Petty, Public Health Director, gave an update and overview of what the Town is
currently doing as it relates to the Coronavirus. The Board of Health is actively
monitoring the situation and will continue to update residents as the situation unfolds.
Information relating to the Coronavirus can be found on the Towns website
www.marblehead.org.

DECLARATON OF EMERGENCY. Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair, Board of Selectmen,
read, and put up on the screen for all participants, a proposed Declaration of Emergency,
for the Town. Andrew Petty stated that by adopting a Declaration of Emergency it allows
the town to facilitate and expedite use of resources and allow for emergency
expenditures. Motion made and seconded to approve the Declaration of Emergency, as
presented. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 4:50 p.m. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

                                     Kyle A. Wiley, present
                                     Administrative Aide



March 23, 2020                               24
