                             BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES

                                   October 8, 2020

Board met in session at 3:30 p.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                     David Depew
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     James E. Nye

                           Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Thursday, October 8, 2020 to order. The following roll
call was taken: Mr. Depew, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, present.

CONTRACT. Fort Sewall renovations. Amend. Motion made and seconded to
amend the contract between the Town and Sciaba Construction by increasing the contract
sum by the amount of 59,201.59 (fifty-nine thousand two hundred and one dollars and
59/100) and authorize the Chair to sign the amendment on behalf of the Board. Moved
by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

BIDS. Abbot Hall Interior Painting. Reject All. Motion made and seconded to Reject
all bids for the Abbot Hall Interior Painting. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

2020 SPECIAL TOWN MEETING. Warrant Articles. The Board reviewed articles
they have sponsored on the 2020 Special Town Meeting Warrant and the following votes
were taken:

Motion made and seconded to support Article 3 – Assume Liability. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

Motion made and seconded to support Article 5 – Least Property. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

Motion made and seconded to support Article 6 - Contracts in Excess of Three Years.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as

follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor

Motion made and seconded to support Indefinite Postponement of Article 7 – Walls and
Fences. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted
as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor

Motion made and seconded to support Article 12 - Parking Tickets – Increased Fee for
Snow Emergency. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor;
Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

Motion made and seconded to support Indefinite Postponement of Article 17 - Pumper
Truck. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted
as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor

Motion made and seconded to support Article 18 – Village/Vine/Pleasant. Moved by Mr.
Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

Motion made and seconded to support Article 19 - Village /Vine /Pleasant Taking for
Road Improvements. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor;
Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

Motion made and seconded to support Article 20 - Reduction of Speed Limits. Moved by
Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

Motion made and seconded to support Article 21 - Council on Aging – Reduce Number
of Board Members from 9 to 7. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

Motion made and seconded to support Indefinite Postponement of Article 24 - Land
Acquisition 45 - 49 Pleasant Street. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

Motion made and seconded to support Article 31 -Stabilization Account. Moved by Mr.
Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

Motion made and seconded to support Article 32 - Security Required for Certain
Contracts. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor

Motion made and seconded to support Article 33 - Deed Restriction Pickett House.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 3:50 p.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

                                    Kyle A. Wiley
                                    Administrative Aide

