                             BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES

                                  November 4, 2020

Board met in session at 11:30 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                     David Depew
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     James E. Nye

                           Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, November 4, 2020 to order. The following
roll call was taken: Mr. Depew, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, present.

Maria’s Java Sun. 35 Atlantic Avenue. The Board reviewed the application from
Maria Torres seeking permission for outdoor seating. After review, motion made and
seconded, pursuant to Executive Order COVID-19, No. 35, issued by Governor Baker on
June 1, 2020, and Order Making Certain Phase III Adjustments (also known as COVID-
19 Order No. 50) issued September 10, 2020, which extends the period for outdoor table
service by licensees 60 days past the end of the state of emergency, and notwithstanding
the provisions of Chapter 40A of the General Laws, or any special permit, variance or
other approvals thereunder, or any general or special law to the contrary, the Board of
Selectmen for the Town of Marblehead shall approve the application for outdoor seating
submitted by Maria Torres, Maria’s Java Sun, 35 Atlantic Avenue, provided that the
operation remains in substantial compliance with the documents, plans and statements on
file with the Town , which documents are incorporated herein by reference and receipt of
all required sign-offs related to the Common Victualler License. This approval is freely
revocable upon the determination of the Health Department, Chief of Police, Board of
Health, or their designees that the operation of the outdoor dining area is negatively
impacting public health and safety and subject to any and all Executive Orders that may
be issued by Governor Baker and is subject to Final approval by the Town Administrator,
Police and Fire. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor;
Mr. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Road Way Maintenance. Motion made and seconded to award Option
Year 3 of the Contract for the cleaning of stormwater catch basins dated October 15,
2018, to Road Way Maintenance Services Inc., Plymouth, MA, for the period of July 1,
2020 through June 30, 2021, for the line item amounts listed on Bid form in Contract
Year Three Option and amend the awarding authority for the Town of Marblehead from
the Water and Sewer Commission to the Board of Selectmen and authorize the Chair to



November 4, 2020                          135
sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Depew, in
favor; Mr. Belf-Becker, in favor.

FORT SEWALL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. Letter of Support. Motion made
and seconded to send a letter to the Massachusetts Cultural Council in support of the Fort
Sewall Oversight Committee (FSOC) application for funding through the Mass Cultural
Council Facilities Grant Program to support the renovation and restoration of Fort
Sewall. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted
as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

PROCLAMATION. Motion made and seconded to prepare a proclamation in honor of
a resident’s one hundred and first birthday. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor;
Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Belf-Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 11:40 a.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor



                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide




November 4, 2020                           136
