                               BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                        MINUTES

                                    October 28, 2020

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                      David Depew
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye

                             Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, October 28, 2020 to order. The following
roll call was taken: Mr. Depew, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, present.

VETERANS DAY. Dave Rodgers, Veterans’ Agent, appeared before the Board to talk
about this year’s Veteran’s Day Ceremony. After consulting with the Public Health
Director, it was determined that it would be appropriate to hold the Veterans Day
Ceremony at Memorial Park at 10:00 A.M. on November 11, 2020. Opening remarks, a
rededication on the War on Terror Memorial, roll call and TAPS are all planned. An
original WWI tree had to be removed from Memorial Park and a new memorial tree will
be planted and dedicated in the near future. Masks and social distancing will be required
by all in attendance.

LICENSING. Common Victualler License. B&B Fish. Jason Santos appeared before
the Board seeking a Common Victualler license. Motion made and seconded to approve
the application from Jason Santo for a Common Victualler License for B&B Fish, 195
Pleasant Street, subject to receipt of the required fees, forms and department sign offs.
Hours of operation Monday through Sunday 11:00 am – 9:00 pm. Occupancy limit is 20.
The business shall run in accordance with all State Guidelines and COVID-19 Safety
Protocols that are currently in effect. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On
a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Depew, in favor, Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the following minutes: October 8,
2020, October 13, 2020, October 14, 2020 and October 17, 2020. Moved by Mr. Grader,
seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor;
Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor, Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PARKING REGULATIONS. Snow Emergency Fee. Motion made and seconded to
establish the fine for parking a motor vehicle on the public way during a snow emergency
to be $50.00, if paid within 21 days; $55.00 if paid thereafter but before the parking clerk

reports to the registrar as provided in section 20A ½ of Chapter 90 of the General laws.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor, Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

HOME RULE PETITION. Snow Emergency Parking Fees. Motion made and
seconded that the Board of Selectmen petition the General Court to amend Chapter 37 of
the Acts of 2004 as voted in Article 12 of the October 17, 2020 Town Meeting. Moved
by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor, Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PROCLAMATION. 100TH Birthday. Motion made and seconded, Nunc Pro Tunc, to
prepare a proclamation in honor of Flossie Amirault’s 100th Birthday. Moved by Mr.
Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor, Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

OLD TOWN HOUSE. Permission to Use. Historic Commission. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request to use the Old Town House, for an exhibit “Mapping
Marblehead – the Nineteenth Century” from July 7, 2021 to October 28, 2021 subject to
the usual rules, regulations, fees and availability and to coordinate the details for the
event with the Town Administrator and Town Clerk. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor, Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

ELBRIDGE GERRY SCHOOL CONTRACT. Amend. Motion made and seconded
to approve the amendment (No.5) to the Owner – Construction Manager Agreement,
Elbridge Gerry Elementary School, as presented, and authorize the Chair to sign on
behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor;
Mrs. Belf-Becker.

CONTRACT. Toole Design. Bike Path. Amend. Motion made and seconded to
amend the contract between the Town and Toole Design by extending the contract term
to November 2, 2020 and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by
Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker.

RESERVE FUND TRANSFER. Selectmen. Motion made and seconded to authorize
the Town Administrator to appear before the Finance Committee to request the transfer
of the sum of seven thousand nine hundred and ninety-five and 00/100 dollars ($7995.00)
from the Reserve Fund in accordance with chapter 40, section 6 of the Massachusetts
General Laws for repairs to the stump grinder. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker.

OVERNIGHT PARKING BAN. Winter Snow Emergencies. Motion made and
seconded to suspend Town of Marblehead Article 5 section 8 known as the current “All
night parking ban” and to implement in its place a snow emergency response to snow
events on an ‘as needed’ basis for a trial period of one year. Declared snow emergencies
will prohibit on-street parking starting at midnight the day of the anticipated snow storm.
On-street parking will be allowed the following morning starting at 7am during a
declared snow emergency. If the duration of any snow emergency is more than a day, on-
street parking will be prohibited on each day of the snow emergency from midnight to
7am. Any vehicles that violate the provisions of this motion are subject to the issuance of
parking tickets and towing. Notification of a declared snow emergency during this trial
period shall be done through the Town website, CodeRED automated call system, Town-
managed social media accounts, MHTV, and any other outlets the Town has available.
This trial period is revocable upon the determination of the Police Chief, Fire Chief,
Town Administrator, Department of Public Works, or their designees, that it is negatively
impacting public health and safety. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Depew, in favor, Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CLIMATE VISION REPORT. Motion made and seconded to send a letter in support
of the Marblehead Climate Vision Report. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Depew.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor;
Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker.

Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker.

FINANCE COMMITTEE. Letter of Interest. A letter of interest was received from
Katrina Price as it relates to serving on the Finance Committee. The Board will keep Ms.
Price’s letter on file.

FAIR HOUSING COMMITTEE. Letter of Interest. A letter of interest was received
from Dirk Isbransdtsen as it related to serving on the Fair Housing Committee. The
Selectmen will receive letters of interest with a deadline of Friday, November 13, 2020 at
12:00 noon. All applicants will be interviewed on November 18, 2020.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:30 a.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

                                      Kyle A. Wiley
                                      Administrative Aide

