                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES

                                      July 8, 2020

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

Present / remote Dial-in number (US) (253) 215 8782
https://zoom.us/j/734 068 0306    Meeting ID: 734 068 0306

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                     David Depew
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                    Judith R. Jacobi
                                     James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, July 8, 2020 to order. The following roll
call was taken: Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Depew, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Jacobi,
present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

OUTDOOR SEATING. Eat Well Kitchen. 12 Atlantic Avenue. Susan Bergeron
appeared before the Board seeking permission for outdoor seating. After review, motion
made and seconded, pursuant to Executive Order COVID-19, No. 35, issued by Governor
Baker on June 1, 2020, and notwithstanding the provisions of Chapter 40A of the General
Laws, or any special permit, variance or other approvals thereunder, or any general or
special law to the contrary, the Board of Selectmen for the Town of Marblehead approves
the application for outdoor seating submitted by Susan Bergeron for EAT WELL
KITCHEN located at 12 Atlantic Avenue in Marblehead, Massachusetts, provided that
the operation remains in substantial compliance with the documents, plans and statements
contained within said application and submitted therewith, which documents are
incorporated herein by reference. This approval is freely revocable upon the
determination of the Health Dept., Chief of Police, Board of Health, or their designees
that the operation of the outdoor dining area is negatively impacting public health and
safety. Further, this approval shall automatically be rescinded on November 1, 2020 or
upon the recission of Executive Order COVID-19, No. 35, whichever shall come first and
is subject to final approval by the Town Administrator, Police and Fire. Moved by Mr.
Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled voted the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

PUBLIC HEARING. All Alcoholic Beverage License. Transfer. Common
Victualler License. JDHE LLC, 165 Pleasant Street. Jose Luis Sanchez, applicant,
and Emanuel Gonzalez, Counsel, appeared before the Board as it relates to the transfer of

the All Alcoholic Beverage License at 165 Pleasant Street. Tom Egan, Counsel for
Rockett Management Co., current owner of the License, spoke in favor of the transfer.
No one spoke opposed to the application. Motion made and seconded to approve the
application for a Common Victualler License for JDHE LLC d/b/a Amores Tequila Bar,
165 Pleasant Street, Manager, Jose Luis Sanchez. Hours of operation Sunday through
Saturday 9:00am – 12:00 midnight, seating capacity 162, and outdoor seating, not to
exceed twenty (20) seats, subject to receipt of all applicable inspection sign offs and all
fees paid and compliance with all COVID 19 safety guidelines as outlined by the State
and the Town. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled voted the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor;
Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor. Motion made and seconded to approve
the transfer of the All Alcoholic Beverage License from M/R Rockett Management Co.
Inc., to JDHE LLC d/b/a Amores Tequila Bar, 165 Pleasant Street, Manager, Jose Luis
Sanchez., seating capacity is 162 inside and outdoor seating, not to exceed twenty (20)
seats, and compliance with all COVID 19 safety guidelines as outlined by the State and
the Town. Hours of operation Sunday through Saturday 9:00 a.m. – 12:00 midnight
subject to approval from the ABCC, CORI, manager is TIPS trained or equivalent and
receipt of all applicable inspection sign offs and all fees paid. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi,
seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled voted the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

SURPLUS. Fire Department. Fire Engine. Motion made and seconded to approve
the request from the Fire Chief to declare the following item surplus and no longer
needed for municipal purpose and available for disposition in accordance with MGL
Chapter 30B and the Town’s policy on surplus equipment: 1996 Pierce Saber Fire
Engine. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled voted the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Jacobi, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Fort Sewall Restoration. Amend. Motion made and seconded to
amend the contract for Fort Sewall Restoration Phase II with Sciaba Construction of
Newton, MA and the Town by increasing the amount by an amount not to exceed four
thousand five hundred and sixty-one & 80/100 dollars ($4,561.80) and authorize the
Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Grader.
On a polled voted the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

GARFIELD STREET. The Board received correspondence from residents of Garfield
Street seeking street repairs. The Town Administrator and DPW Director will review the
request.

PLEASANT STREET. The Board received correspondence from residents from
Pleasant Street regarding speed limits. The Town Administrator and Police Chief will
review the request.

ICE RINK COMMITTEE. The Chair asked Mr. Nye and Mr. Depew to serve as the
Selectmen’s representatives on the Ice Rink Committee.

The Town Administrator advised the Board that Standard & Poors has confirmed that the
Town has once again received AAA bond rating.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:35 a.m. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded
by Mr. Grader. On a polled voted the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

                                    Kyle A. Wiley
                                    Administrative Aide

