                               BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                        MINUTES

                                      May 13, 2020

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

Present / remote Dial-in number (US) (253) 215 8782
https://zoom.us/j/93779915520       Meeting ID: 937 7991 5520

                                 Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                  Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                    M. C. Moses Grader
                                      Judith R. Jacobi
                                       James E. Nye

                              Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, May 13, 2020 to order. The following roll
call was taken: Mr. Grader, present; Mrs. Jacobi, present; Mr. Christensen, present; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, present.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of May 4, 2020. Moved
by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows:
Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in
favor.

Mr. Nye joined the meeting.

PUBLIC HEARING. LICENSING. All Alcoholic Package Store License. Alter
Premises. D. J. Colbert Inc. George Shube, appeared before the Board seeking
permission to alter the premises on the current All Alcoholic Package Store License held
by D. J. Colbert Inc., d/b/a Shubies Liquor Store, 16 Atlantic Avenue, by reducing the
currently licensed premise by 1,200 square feet. If the reduction in the licensed premise
is approved by the Selectmen and the ABCC, Shubie’s will then submit an application for
a Carry-In Beverage License for the area that will no longer be licensed as a Package
Store. No one spoke opposed or in favor of the application. Motion made and seconded
to approve the application from D. J. Colbert Inc., d/b/a Shubies Liquor Store, 16 Atlantic
Avenue, to Alter the Premises as currently described on the All Alcoholic Beverage
Package Store License by removing 1,200 square feet of the currently licensed premises
subject to receipt of the required forms, fees and approval from ABCC and all department
sign offs. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr.
Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.




May 13 2020                                 37
CONTRACT. Gerry School. Material Testing Services. Motion made and seconded,
on recommendation of the Gerry School Building Committee’s trade qualification sub-
committee, to approve the contract between the Town and UTS of Stoneham, MA, for
material testing services, and to authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the
Board. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mrs. Jacobi. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr.
Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Shop Local. Beth Grader, Chamber of Commerce,
appeared before the Board to present a shop local challenge sponsored by the Chamber of
Commerce. This 7-day shop local challenge encourages residents to participate in
specific daily activities that support local business. Participants will be entered into a
raffle to win gift cards to local businesses. Motion made and seconded to support the
“Shop Local” initiative sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce. Moved by Mr. Grader,
seconded by Mrs. Jacobi. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

IDLING. Front Street. A letter was received from Alex Finnigan regarding vehicles
idling on Front Street. The Board discussed options and a motion was made and
seconded to place “No Idling Please” signs on Front Street in locations to be determined
by the Town Administrator. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONDOLENCE. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of condolence to Richard
Baldacci, Building Commissioner, on the death of his father. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi,
seconded by Mr. Christensen. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

CONGRATULATIONS. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of congratulations
to Alison Nieto, Finance Director, on the birth of her son Gabriel. Moved by Mr.
Christensen, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:28 a.m. Moved by Mr. Christensen,
seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor;
Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in
favor.



                                      Kyle A. Wiley
                                      Administrative Aide



May 13 2020                                 38
