                               BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                        MINUTES

                                    September 2, 2020

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

https://zoom.us/j/96571542787?pwd=YVg4NXZhMUtNMnJBRXA1M0pFQURNdz09

Meeting ID: 965 7154 2787      Passcode: 314739

                                 Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                       David Depew
                                    M. C. Moses Grader
                                       James E. Nye

                              Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, September 2, 2020 to order. The following
roll call was taken: Mr. Depew, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

HEARINGS OFFICER. Motion made and seconded, in accordance with Police Chief
Robert Picariello’s request, and pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 31,
Section 41, that Jason Silva, Town Administrator, be appointed as the designated hearing
officer regarding Police Officer Chris Gallo’s conduct while in the performance of his
duties on May 19, 2020. Moved by Mr. Depew, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

Mr. Nye joined the meeting.

STATEMENT. Recent acts of hate in Town. The Board addressed the recent acts of
hatred that have taken place in Town. Board members all expressed their disappointment
with these acts stating there is no room in Town for this and the Town will not tolerate
this behavior. The Chair stated as a member of the Board of Selectmen I condemn these
acts of hate and am saddened that this has happened in our community yet again....I
remain committed to speak out against any expression of hate in the community and will
continue our collective work to promote tolerance, justice and equality. Mr. Grader read
a prepared statement (attached here). Chief Picariello addressed the Board and related
that new incidents had occurred the previous night. The Chief and his department are
committed to standing up against this behavior. Helaine Hazlett, Chair, Task Force
against Discrimination, thanked the Board and the Chief for their support. The Task
Force will soon announce their plans for the 2nd Annual Indigenous People’s Day and
several live stream events coming up this fall.




September 2, 2020                          111
CONDOLENCE. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of condolence to the
family of Bob Ross, former Assistant Director, Accounting. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Depew, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor: Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:20 a.m. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by
Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor: Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.



                                   Kyle A. Wiley
                                   Administrative Aide




September 2, 2020                        112
