                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                     May 21, 2020

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

Present / remote Dial-in number (US) (253) 215 8782
https://zoom.us/j/93779915520       Meeting ID: 937 7991 5520

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                    Judith R. Jacobi
                                     James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, May 21, 2020 to order. The following roll
call was taken: Mr. Grader, present; Mrs. Jacobi, present; Mr. Christensen, present; Mr.
Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from May 13, 2020 and
May 14, 2020. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Christensen. On a polled vote
the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in
favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Re-Opening Businesses. Beth Ferris, Executive
Director, Chamber of Commerce, and Andrew Christensen, Chamber President, appeared
before the Selectmen to discuss the beginning stages of re-opening Marblehead
businesses. The Chamber proposed the town organize a committee that could look at
what resources businesses will need to re-open and to make recommendations to assist in
re-opening businesses. The Board discussed this and a motion was made and seconded to
establish the Re-open Marblehead Committee to include the following members:
Member of the Board of Selectmen
Chair, Board of Health
Public Health Director
Town Planner
Building Commissioner
Police Chief
Fire Chief
Town Administrator
Executive Director, Chamber of Commerce
1 Retail owner
1 Restaurant owner



May 21, 2020                               40
PURPOSE: to develop a proposal to the Board of Selectmen to plan and implement a
reopening process that prioritizes the health and well-being of the residents of
Marblehead and supports the local economy and local business community. This
Committee will be focused on the reopening of the local economy. Town buildings,
facilities and recreational resources is already being planned out by an internal return-to-
work group created by the Town Administrator. Moved by Mr.Christensen, seconded by
Mr.Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye,
in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Abbot Hall Restoration Project. Amend. Motion made and seconded
to amend the contract between the Town and Kronenberger and Sons for the Abbot Hall
restoration project by increasing the amount by nineteen thousand six hundred and two
and 96/100 dollars ($19,602.96) and authorize the Chair to sign the amendment on behalf
of the Board. Moved by Mr.Christensen, seconded by Mrs. Jacobi. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor;
Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Abbot Hall Design Services. Amend. Motion made and seconded to
amend the contract with McGinley Kalsow & Associates, Inc. and the Town for Abbot
Hall Design Services by increasing the contract by an amount not to exceed sixteen
thousand dollars ($16,000) and authorize the Chair to sign the PSS on behalf of the
Board. Moved by Mr.Christensen, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr.
Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

BIDS. Asphalt Reclamation Project. Motion made and seconded to rescind bids
received for the Asphalt Reclamation Project deemed to be in the best interest of the
Town. Moved by Mrs.Jacoby, seconded by Mr. Christensen. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr.
Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

GERRY SCHOOL DISPOSITION. Motion made and seconded that the Board of
Selectmen sell the land with the building thereon as known and numbered Lot 2 at
Mechanic Square as more specifically shown on an Approval Not Required Plan dated
April 10, 2020 by North Shore Survey and attached to this vote including 19,023 square
feet +/- to Charing Cross Realty Trust, 2 Centennial Drive Suite 5E, Peabody, MA 01960
for the sum of $810,062.00 and pursuant to the authorization of the Annual Town
Meeting of 2019 Article 53 to be developed in conformance with the Proposal of Charing
Cross Realty Trust dated April 23, 2020 and further to authorize the Chair, Jackie Belf-
Becker, to execute and enter into any and all documents necessary to effectuate the sale
of said property including execution of a purchase and sale agreement, deed and other
related documents. Moved by Mr.Grader, seconded by Mr. Christensen. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in
favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.




May 21, 2020                                 41
CONDOLENCE. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of condolence to the
families of Maryellen Farrar and Joyce Booth. Moved by Mr.Grader, seconded by Mr.
Christensen. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in
favor.

APPRECIATION. League of Women Voters. Motion made and seconded to send a
letter of appreciation to the League of Women Voters for organizing Candidates night to
be held on Tuesday, June 2, 2020 at 6:30 pm via ZOOM. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi,
seconded by Mr.Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:40 a.m. Moved by Mr. Christensen,
seconded by Mrs. Jacobi. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.




                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide




May 21, 2020                               42
