                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                     July 16, 2020

Board met in session at 11:30 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

Present / remote Dial-in number (US) (253) 215 8782
https://zoom.us/j/ 99591149698    Meeting ID: 995 911 49698

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                     David Depew
                                  M.C. Moses Grader
                                    Judith R. Jacobi
                                     James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Thursday, July 16, 2020 to order. The following roll call
was taken: Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Depew, present; Mrs. Jacobi, present; Mr. Nye,
present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

CONTRACT. Rail Road Right of Way Design. Motion made and seconded to award
a contract for the Rail Road Right of Way overall design to Toole Design of Boston, MA
in the amount of fifty-two thousand dollars ($52,000.00) and authorize the Chair to sign
on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote
the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Depew, in
favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Fort Sewall Restoration. Amend. Motion made and seconded to
amend the contract with Sciaba Construction for Fort Sewall Restoration by increasing
the contract by an amount not to exceed forty-one thousand three hundred and ninety-
four and 51/100 dollars ($41,394.51) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the
Board. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Grader. O n a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mrs.
Jacobi, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Senior Center Kitchen Rehabilitation. Amend. Motion made and
seconded to amend the contract with MKJ construction for the Senior Center Kitchen
Rehabilitation by increasing the contract amount by seven thousand five hundred and
seventy-two and 37/100 ($7,572.37) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the
Board. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted
as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a

polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr.
Depew, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Municipal Seawalls. Structural Assessment. Motion made and
seconded to amend the contract for structural assessment of municipal seawalls to Woods
Hole Group of Bourne MA by increasing the contact amount by eight thousand four
hundred and sixty dollars ($8,460.00) and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on
behalf of the Board. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote
the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Depew, in
favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

SALE OF PROPERTY. 18 Turner Road. Motion made and seconded to authorize the
Town to execute the sale of the property at 18 Turner Road located in Marblehead to Luis
Manuel Capriles of Lynn, MA in the amount of four hundred and forty-four thousand
($444,000.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mrs.
Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 11:45 a.m. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by
Mrs. Jacobi. On a polled voted the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

