                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                      April 7, 2020

Board met in session at 1:30 p.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

Present / remote Dial-in number (US) (253) 215 8782
Meeting ID: 337857154

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                 Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                     Judith R. Jacobi
                                      James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Thursday, March 26, 2020 to order. The following roll
call was taken: Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Jacobi, present; Mr.
Christensen, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of March 26, 2020. On
a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

FIREWORKS COMMITTEE. July Fourth Fireworks Display. Alexander Falk,
Chairman Marblehead Fireworks Committee, appeared remotely before the Board. It is
Mr. Falk’s recommendation that due to the Covid-19 pandemic the Town’s annual Fourth
of July Fireworks Display be indefinitely postponed with the hopes that the Town may be
able to hold the Fireworks display later in the summer. Motion made and seconded to
postpone the annual Fourth of July Fireworks Display indefinitely. Moved by Mrs.
Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Christensen. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

2020 ANNUAL TOWN MEETING. Postpone/Quorum Reduction. Jason Silva,
Town Administrator and Lisa Mead, Special Town Counsel advised the Board on the
options available to conduct the 2020 Annual Town Meeting and to seek a quorum
reduction. Legislation recently passed that allows Towns an extension to complete town
business beyond the June 30th deadline upon declaration of a state of emergency by the
Governor. The legislature up to this point has not allowed municipalities to conduct
Town Meeting virtually, through mail, or any other means. This is consistent throughout
the state. The Town could submit a quorum reduction request to the courts out of the
concern that the 300-person quorum requirement the Town has would not be safe at the
time of Town Meeting, and it could be very difficult to achieve, which would potentially

grind town operations to a standstill. Gary Speiss, Town Moderator, recommended the
Board seek a quorum reduction equal to 10% of the current quorum requirement (30).
After discussion the Board took the following votes:
Town Meeting Quorum. Motion made and seconded to reduce the quorum from 300 to
30 for 2020 Annual Town Meeting. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.
Postpone Town Meeting:
Motion made and seconded that pursuant to G.L. c. 39 sec 9 and Chapter 53 of the Acts
of 2020 that Annual Town Meeting shall be moved from May 4, 2020 to June 29, 2020
and notice thereof posted. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.
Reduce Quorum
Motion made and seconded to authorize Special Town Counsel to file an action to
authorize the Board of Selectmen to reduce the required quorum under the Town of
Marblehead bylaws section 174-5 from 300 to 30 and that said Annual Town meeting
shall only address articles on the warrant related to the FY21 Town budget. Moved by
Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Christensen. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows:
Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor;
Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor. The quorum reduction does not preclude more than 30 to
participate and the Town will be ready with satellite rooms set-up to accommodate more
people if needed.

FLAG RAISING POLICY. Lisa Mead, Special Town Council, reviewed a proposed
Flag-raising policy with the Board. Motion made and seconded to approve the Town of
Marblehead Flag-raising Policy, as presented. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr.
Christensen. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PERMISSION. Road Race. Amend Date. YMCA. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Carol Meyer, YMCA of the North Shore, to revise the date for
the Run the Neck 10K previously approved for May 17, 2020 to July 19, 2020 subject to
approval from Marblehead Police, Fire, Recreation and Parks Department, police details
and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance. No permanent markings are allowed
on the streets and any temporary markings must be removed at the conclusion of the
event. Approval is also subject to all restrictions and regulations in effect at that time due
to Covid-19. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Christensen. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor;
Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Abbot Hall Architectural & Engineering Services. Amend. Motion
made and seconded to amend the contract with McGinley Kalsow Associates Inc. of
Somerville, MA for Abbot Hall Architectural & Engineering Services by increasing the
contract amount by an amount not to exceed forty-five thousand dollars ($45,000.00)
and authorize the Chair to sign PSS on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi,

seconded by Mr. Christensen. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Jacobi,
in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Abbot Hall Restoration Project. Amend. Motion made and seconded
to amend the contact between Kronenberger and Sons and the Town for the Abbot Hall
Restoration project by increasing the contract amount by seventy-four thousand three
hundred and twenty and 34/100 Dollars ($74,320.34) and authorize the Chair to sign the
amendment on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr.
Christensen. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

RESERVE FUND TRANSFER. Department of Public Works. Motion made and
seconded to authorize the Department of Public Works Director to appear before the
Finance Committee to request the transfer of the sum of $6,000.00 from the Reserve
Fund in accordance with chapter 40, section 6 of the Massachusetts General Laws for
Covid-19 supplies. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Christensen. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

RESERVE FUND TRANSFER. Town Counsel. Motion made and seconded to
authorize Town Administrator Jason Silva to appear before the Finance Committee to
request the transfer of the sum of $48,000.00 from the Reserve Fund in accordance with
Chapter 40, Section 6 of the Massachusetts General Laws for Legal Fees. Moved by
Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Christensen. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows:
Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor;
Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Fort Sewall Archeological Monitoring. Amend. Motion made and
seconded to amend the contact for design services at Fort Sewall between the Town and
McKinley Kalsow Associates of Somerville, MA for the required archeological
monitoring at Fort Sewall by increasing the amount to an amount not to exceed $23,200
and authorize the Chair to sign the PSS on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi,
seconded by Mr. Christensen. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Jacobi,
in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

OKO VETERAN FIREMEN’S ASSOCIATION. Antique Firemen’s Muster. The
Board received correspondence from the Oko’s VFA Association that they will be
holding an Antique Firemen’s Muster on August 15, 2020 at Reynold’s Playground
subject to approval from the Recreation and Parks Department.

PARKING RESTRICTIONS. The Police Chief addressed the Board as it relates to
restricting parking in specific areas of the Town in an effort to maintain social distancing
guidelines. The Chief stated these restrictions will be put into place on an as needed
basis and reviewed daily.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 2:30 p.m. Moved by Mr. Christensen, seconded
by Mrs. Jacobi. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

                                     Kyle A. Wiley, remotely
                                     Administrative Aide

