                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                     April 22, 2020

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

Present / remote Dial-in number (US) (253) 215 8782
https://zoom.us/j/98685566558       Meeting ID: 986 8556 6558

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                    Judith R. Jacobi
                                     James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, April 22, 2020 to order. The following roll
call was taken: Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Jacobi, present; Mr.
Christensen, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of April 7, 2020. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. Gerry #5 Veterans Fireman Association, Inc. Change of
Officers/Directors. Arthur Dodge, 8 Franklin Street, appeared before the Board as it
relates to an application from the Gerry #5 Veterans Fireman Association, Inc., 210
Beacon Street, to change the Officers/Directors on the All Alcoholic Beverage Club
License. Motion made and seconded to approve the application as submitted by the
Gerry #5 Veterans Fireman Association, Inc., 210 Beacon Street, to change the
Officers/Directors on the All Alcoholic Beverage Club License subject to receipt of the
required forms, fees and approval from the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission
(ABCC). On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor, Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in
favor.

VETERANS’ AGENT. Memorial Day. David Rodgers, Veterans’ Agent, appeared
before the Board to discuss this year’s Memorial Day observation. Due to the current
pandemic Mr. Rodgers in recommending the Town postpone the annual community
events associated with Memorial Day. The graves will all be flagged by volunteers and a
small team of veterans. Mr. Rodgers is hoping that the Town will be able to hold an
event at a later date to honor our Veterans. Motion made and seconded, on the
recommendation of the Veterans’ Agent, to postpone the annual Veterans Day Services



April 22, 2020                             27
and to look into options to hold a virtual recognition. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded
by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

BOARD OF HEALTH. COVID-19 Update. Public Health Director. Andrew Petty,
Public Health Director, updated the Board on Covid-19. The Governor announced that
schools will be closed for the rest of the year. We are still under a stay at home order and
should only leave our homes to get groceries and to go to the pharmacy. If you go out to
get exercise you should stay in your neighborhood. Residents should get their
information from trusted sites. This information is also on the Town’s website at
www.marblehead.org. The State announced it has partnered with Partners in Health to
help the Town conduct contact testing. Testing sites are increasing daily across the State.

ABBOT HALL. Bell Ringing. National Prayer Day. Motion made and seconded, in
response to the request from Donald Orne, Chairman-Marblehead Peace Committee due
to the current Covid-19 pandemic and the current State of Emergency in the Town, the
Town will ring Abbot Hall bells at noon on Thursday, May 7, 2020 for 5 minutes directly
following the noon regular ringing in honor of National Prayer Day. Moved by Mrs.
Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Jacobi,
in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

SPIRIT OF ’76. Permission to Use. University of Pennsylvania. Motion made and
seconded to request from Elise Lemire to use an image of the Spirit of ’76 in an academic
book in the spring of 2021 with the University of Pennsylvania Press entitled Battle
Green, Vietnam: The 1971 March on Concord and Lexington and to credit the Town of
Marblehead for the image and to forward a copy of the book to the Town. Moved by
Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, present; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

POLICE DEPARTMENT. Indemnification. Motion made and seconded to approve
the request from the Police Chief to indemnify Patrolman Dean Peralta for injuries
sustained while on duty on April 13, 2020. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor;
Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

FIRE DEPARTMENT. Reserve Fund Transfer. Motion made and seconded to
authorize the Fire Chief to appear before the Finance Committee to request the transfer of
the sum of nineteen thousand five hundred and 00/100 dollars ($19,500.00) from the
Reserve Fund in accordance with chapter 40, section 6 of the Massachusetts General
Laws for repairs/maintenance/records management software license. Moved by Mrs.
Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Jacobi,
in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.




April 22, 2020                              28
CONTRACT. COA Kitchen Renovation. Amend. Motion made and seconded to
amend the contract between the Town and MJS Contracting by increasing the contract
amount by six thousand and ninety-five dollars ($6,095.00) and authorize the Chair to
sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

TOWN MEETING. Reschedule. The Chair updated the Board on the 2020 Annual
Town Meeting. The Town petitioned the Courts seeking to reschedule the Annual Town
Meeting and to reduce the quorum, from 300 to 30, in order that next year’s budget can
be approve in a timely manner, that is before July 1, 2020, and only articles pertaining to
the budget will be heard on June 29, 2020. This does not limit in any way how many
people can attend Town Meeting. Anyone who wishes to attend Town Meeting may do
so. Due to the expected need to social distance the required number of satellite rooms for
the public will be made available with proper social distancing guidelines in place.
Attendance and participation at the June 29, 2020 Town Meeting will not be limited in
any way. This is a onetime change to the Town’s usual quorum due to the existing
pandemic. Motion made and seconded, that the Board of Selectmen, in accordance with
Chapter 174 of the Bylaws, post notice of the changes to the 2020 Annual Town Meeting,
pursuant to the Court Order by the Essex County Superior Court, case #2077CV00358.
Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

EXECUTIVE SESSION. Motion made and seconded, pursuant to G.L. c. 30A sec
21(a)(3), that the Board move into Executive Session to discuss strategy with respect to
litigation, the public discussion of which may have a detrimental effect on the litigating
position of the Board. Votes may be taken, and if they are votes will be released at a time
deemed appropriate by counsel. The Board will not reconvene in open session. Moved
by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

The Board adjourned to Executive Session at 10:40 a.m.



                                     Kyle A. Wiley, remotely
                                     Administrative Aide




April 22, 2020                              29
