                             BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES

                                 September 15, 2020

Board met in session at 2:15 p.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                     David Depew
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     James E. Nye

                           Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Tuesday, September 15, 2020 to order. The following
roll call was taken: Mr. Depew, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, present.

LICENSING. Temporary Outdoor Seating. Amend. Shubies. 16 Atlantic Avenue.
George Shube appeared before the Board to amend the temporary Outdoor Seating
application for Shubie’s to include the previously approved Carry-In Beverage License
for the premise. Motion made and seconded, pursuant to Executive Order COVID-19,
No. 35, issued by Governor Baker on June 1, 2020, and notwithstanding the provisions of
Chapter 138 of the General Laws, or any or any general or special law or local bylaw,
rule, regulation to the contrary, and the Town’s Carry-In Beverage Policy ,the Board of
Selectmen, as the Local Licensing Authority pursuant to G.L. c. 138 for the Town of
Marblehead shall permit the AMENDED application for outdoor seating submitted by
George Shube for D. J. Colbert, Inc. d/b/a Shubie’s, 16 Atlantic Avenue, provided that
the operation remains in substantial compliance with the documents, plans and statements
contained within said application and submitted therewith which documents are
incorporated herein by reference. This approval is freely revocable upon the
determination of the Health Department., Chief of Police, Board of Health, or their
designees that the operation of the outdoor dining area is negatively impacting public
health and safety. Further, this approval shall automatically be rescinded 60 days after
the end of the State of Emergency all in accordance with Section 4 of Executive Order
COVID-19, No. 35, and is subject to final approval by the Town Administrator, Police
and Fire. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

DONATION ACCOUNT. Judy and Gene Jacobi Community Center. Motion made
and seconded to establish a donation account for the Judy and Gene Jacobi Community
Center. Checks should be made payable to the Town of Marblehead and note “Judy and
Gene Jacobi Community Center” in the memo line. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by

Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

COUNCIL ON AGING. Letter of Interest. A letter of interest was received from Kim
Crowley as it relates to serving on the Council on Aging. The Board will receive letters
of interest until Friday, September 25, 2020 at 12;30 p.m. Applicants will be interviewed
at the Board’s meeting on Wednesday, October 14, 2020.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 2:21 p.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

