                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                    August 26, 2020

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

Present / remote Dial-in number (US) (253) 215 8782
https://zoom.us/j/95270932464?pwd=bFc5TjRGZnliYlg1MDEwLzVua0NZdz09
Meeting ID: 952 7093 2464           Passcode: 091488

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                      David Depew
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, August 26, 2020 to order. The following
roll call was taken: Mr. Depew, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, present.

MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEE UNION. Step 3 Grievance. Nicole
Horberg Dector, Esq., and Terri Tauro, MMEU President, appeared before the Board in
accordance with Step 3 of the Collective Bargaining Unit, to grieve a letter dated August
4, 2020 from Town Administrator Jason Silva to Mary Allain, Senior Clerk, Public
Buildings. Attorney Marc Miller appeared on behalf of the Town. Ms. Tauro read a
statement on behalf of the Union. Attorney Dector addressed the Board asking that the
discipline letter be withdrawn from Ms. Allain’s personal file and that the Town engage
in good faith meaningful bargaining over the workloads of all positions in Town
impacted by the workforce reduction. Attorney Miller stated that the Town has always
bargained with the Union in good faith. Attorney Miller was aware that the Town
Administrator was meeting with the Union President and as the Union President
acknowledged, she was not happy with the response from the Town Administrator. The
Town is always willing to meet and impact bargain with the Union. After discussion
motion made and seconded to uphold the Town Administrators decision and deny the
grievance before them. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote
the Board voted as follows: Mr. Depew, opposed; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from August 6, 2020.
Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Depew in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

LICENSING. Common Victualler License. Maria’s Java Sun. 12 Atlantic Avenue.
Maria Torres appeared before the Board seeking a Common Victualler license. Motion
made and seconded to approve the application from Maria Torres, for a Common
Victualler License for Maria’s Java Sun, 35 Atlantic Avenue, subject to receipt of the
required fees, forms and department sign offs. Hours of operation Monday through
Sunday 5:00 am – 10:00 pm. Seating capacity is 16. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by
Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

SURPLUS EQUIPMENT. Motion made and seconded to declare the following items
surplus and no longer need for municipal purpose and available for disposition in
accordance with MGL Chapter 30B and the Town’s policy on surplus equipment:
- (1) 4ft long desk
- (1) bookcase, with drawers & storage
- (1) 6 ft conference table, boat shape
- (6) Black Granite slabs - 12 x 44
Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

APPOINTMENT. Task Force against Discrimination. Motion made and seconded to
appoint Candace Sliney to the Task Force against Discrimination with a term to expire in
May 2021. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

APPOINTMENT. Old and Historic Districts Commission. Motion made and
seconded to appoint Bob Bradgon to the Od and Historic Districts Commission, Member,
with a term to expire in May 2021. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

GREEN MARBLEHEAD COMMITTEE. Motion made and seconded to continue
the Green Marblehead Committee as originally appointed by the Board. Moved by Mr.
Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Depew,
in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LEASE CONTRACT. Woodchipper Truck. Motion made and seconded to approve
the lease, with option to purchase agreement, with All American Investment Group, LLC
for (1) New 2020 HV507 SFA Woodchipper Truck in the total amount of one hundred
fifty two thousand and forty three and 35/00 ($152,043.35) with an expiration date of
August 4, 2024 and to authorize the Chair to sign the lease on behalf of the Board.
Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

ELBRIDGE GERRY SCHOOL CONTRACT. Amend. Motion made and seconded
to approve the amendment to the Owner – Construction Manager Agreement, Elbridge
Gerry Elementary School, as presented, and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the
Board. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted
as follows: Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker.

COUNCIL ON AGING. Letter of Interest. A letter of interest was received from
Marcy Schwam as it relates to serving on the Council on Aging.

SEPTEMBER 11th. Remembrance Ceremony. Notification was received from Chief
Jason Gilliland that due to the COVID-19 Pandemic, the Marblehead Fire Department
will revise the annual commemoration of September 11, 2001, to stay within the
Governors reopening guidelines. For public health reasons they will not put out an
invitation to the community to participate in this year’s remembrance service. All
personnel in attendance shall be required to wear a face mask and maintain social
distancing. The Fire and Police Department shall gather at 10:00 a.m. sharp, lower the
flag, sound taps, offer the Police and Firefighters prayer, ring five bells and raise the flag
to pay tribute to the 3000 lives lost on September 11, 2001.

PEACH HIGHLANDS. Sean McHugh, Peach Highlands, addressed the Board
regarding the “car jumping” on Peach Highlands. The Town has installed temporary
barrels at the location until speed bumps, on order, arrive and can be installed. Mr.
McHugh stated that the barrels do not seem to be having a positive effect as he has video
of cars continuing the practice. The Town Administrator stated that he contacted a traffic
engineer for recommendations, most of which are long term solutions. The speed bumps
will be installed as soon as they arrive.

METROPOLITAN AREA PLANNING COUNCIL. Racial Equity Municipal
Action Plan. Selectmen Grader made the following statement regarding the Town’s
recent grant submission to the MAPC “this indicates a strong anti-racist stance of the
Board. I have reached out to a close friend who is the lead hearing officer of the
Massachusetts Commission against Discrimination and she has agreed, if the Board is so
inclined, to advise the Board in this capacity. She would bring an excellent state-wide
and national perspective, augmenting the excellent work of the Board’s own Task Force
against Discrimination. It is important that the Board think broadly about the initiatives
that are available and that we are proactive in looking at these options and that we get
advice that is not only grounded in Massachusetts law but provides the most effective and
inclusive dialogue to address race and discrimination in Marblehead.” The Board
agreed that they should seek all options available to the Town.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:45 a.m. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by
Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Depew in favor; Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

                                       Kyle A. Wiley, Administrative Aide

