                                    BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                             MINUTES

                                            May 4, 2020

Board met in session at 9:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

Present / remote Dial-in number (US) (253) 215 8782
https://zoom.us/j/93779915520       Meeting ID: 937 7991 5520

                                      Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                       Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                         M. C. Moses Grader
                                           Judith R. Jacobi
                                            James E. Nye

                                   Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Monday, May 4, 2020 to order. The following roll call
was taken: Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Jacobi, present; Mr. Christensen,
present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of April 22, 2020.
Moved by Mr., Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

FY20 Year End Appropriation Transfers. Motion, in accordance with MGL Chapter
44 Section 33B, the Board of Selectmen authorizes the transfer of funds totaling
$16,000.00 from the FY20 appropriation line items listed below titled Transfer From to
the FY20 appropriation line items listed below titled Transfer To as submitted by the
Town’s Finance Director. Said transfer subject to the concurrence of the Town’s Finance
Committee. Moved by Mr., Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr.
Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

TRANSFER
FROM:

Line Item         Description                    Transfer Amount
01-062-210-5148   Court Overtime                                   $16,000
                  TOTAL TRANSFER                                   $16,000

TRANSFER
TO:

Line Item         Description                Requested Transfer
01-063-210 5241   Police R&M Vehicles                         $14,000
01-063-210-5246   Police R$M Computers                            $2,000
                  TOTAL TRANSFER                              $16,000

POLICE DEPARTMENT. Indemnification. Motion made and seconded to approve
the request from the Police Chief to indemnify Patrolman Dennis DeFelice for injuries
sustained while on duty on April 28, 2020. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Abbot Hall Restoration Project. Motion made and seconded to amend the
contract with Kronenberger and Sons Restoration for the Abbot Hall Restoration project by
increasing the amount by seven thousand five hundred and twenty dollars and 58/100 ($7,520.58)
and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Jacobi, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Fort Sewall Research Project. Motion made and seconded to award a contract
for the Fort Sewall research project to Frederic C. Detwiller / New England Landmarks of
Georgetown, MA funded through grants from the Massachusetts Society of the Cincinnati and
from the Massachusetts Society of Colonial Wars in the amount of seven thousand dollars
($7,000.00) and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mrs.
Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Christensen. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor

CONTRACT. Fort Sewall Design Services. Amend. Motion made and seconded to amend
the contract between the town and McGinley Kalsow and Associates of Somerville, MA for the
Fort Sewall design services by increasing the amount by twenty-one thousand five hundred
dollars ($21,500.00) and authorize the Chair to sign the PSS on behalf of the Board. Moved by
Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Christensen. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows:
Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor;
Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

CONTRACT. Ice Hockey Feasibility Grant. Motion made and seconded to award the
Ice Hockey feasibility and site project to MacLaughlin Management & Design of Exeter,
NH in the amount of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) and authorize the Chair
to sign the contract on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONDOLENCE. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of condolence to Chief
Picariello on the passing of his mother. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr.
Christensen. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

JUNE ELECTIONS. Erin Noonan addressed the Board as it relates to the upcoming
Election in June. She is concerned that many registered voters will not be able to safely
access their right to vote. The Town Administrator advised the Board that the forms for
Early Voting and Absentee Voting is on the Towns’ website www.marblehead.org. The
Town Administrator is working with the Town Clerk on a proposal to mail early ballot
applications to all registered voters in Town for the June election.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 9:22 a.m. Moved by Mr. Christensen, seconded
by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

                                     Kyle A. Wiley, remotely
                                     Administrative Aide

