                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES

                                   October 14, 2020

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                     David Depew
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Thursday, October 8, 2020 to order. The following roll
call was taken: Mr. Depew, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, present.

COUNCIL ON AGING. Interviews. Appointment. The following candidates
appeared before the Board as it relates to serving on the Council on Aging: Kimberly
Crowley, Christine Nuccio and Marcy Schwam. Motion made and seconded to place all
3 names into nomination. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Depew. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor, Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, Marcy Schwam: Mr. Depew,
Marcy Schwam: Mr. Nye, Marcy Schwam. Marcy Schwam appointed to the Council on
Aging with a term to expire in June 2023.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of October 1, 2020.
Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor, Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

PARKING RESTRICTIONS. Round House Road. Annual Clean up. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Rob Dever, Public Works Director, to
temporarily make the entirety of the Railroad Right of Way known as Roundhouse Road,
from School Street through to Bessom Street, as well as upper Anderson Street from #10
Anderson through to Bessom Street a NO PARKING/TOW ZONE area for the
following dates:
        October 22, 2020 from the hours of 7:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m.
        Rain Date: October 23, 2020 from the hours of 7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
This is to facilitate the annual clean-up and repair of town property in this area. Moved
by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor, Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PARKING RESTRICTIONS. Polling Locations. Election Day. Motion made and
seconded to authorize ANY parking restrictions or road closures on Tuesday, November
3, 2020 for the purpose of facilitating safe flow of both vehicular and pedestrian traffic at
the following designated polling places, at any time deemed necessary by the Town
Administrator and or the Police Chief, for the purposes of voting only: Abbot Hall,
Marblehead Community Center and Temple Emanu-El. In all locations, parking will
only be restricted as needed between 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. and will be returned to
general use as soon as it is deemed the restrictions are no longer needed. Moved by Mr.
Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor, Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Year 3 MS4 Compliance Permit. Motion made and seconded to
approve the contract between the Town and VM Consulting Engineers, LLC, Salem, MA
for Professional Engineering Services to Support Permit Year 3 MS4 Compliance, in the
amount not to exceed twenty-two thousand dollars ($22,000.00) and to authorize the
Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Depew.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor;
Mr. Nye, in favor, Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

RESIGNATIONS. Housing Authority. Fair Housing Committee. The Board
received letters of resignation from Patricia Robert, Marblehead Housing Authority and
Mark Podgur, Marblehead Fair Housing Committee. Motion made and seconded to send
a letter of appreciation to Patricia and Mark. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr.
Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Depew, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor, Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

SHELLFISHING. Conditionally Approved. Notification was received, in accordance
with Chapter 130, section 74A of Massachusetts General Laws, the Division of Marine
Fisheries has determined that the shellfish classification area, N21.2 Devereux and
Tuckers Beaches, classified as CONDITIONALLY APPROVED, now meets the established
criteria for the harvest of shellfish. As a result, the status of this area has been changed to
“OPEN TO SHELLFISHING” October 1, 2020 – April 30, 2021. The status of the above
conditional area, N21.2, shall automatically change to “CLOSED TO SHELLFISHING”
on May 1, 2021, unless the Division of marine Fisheries changes the area’s status prior to
said date.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:25 a.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Depew, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

                                       Kyle A. Wiley
                                       Administrative Aide

