                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                    August 12, 2020

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

Present / remote Dial-in number (US) (253) 215 8782
https://zoom.us/j/99724714721       Meeting ID: 997 2471 4721

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                      David Depew
                                   M. C. Moses Grader

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, August 12, 2020 to order. The following
roll call was taken: Mr. Depew, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

PUBLIC HEARING. Carry-In Alcoholic Beverage License. D. J. Colberts, Inc.
d/b/a Shubies, 16 Atlantic Avenue. George Shube and Melissa May appeared before
the Board as it relates to the application for a Carry-In Alcoholic Beverage License at 16
Atlantic Avenue. Residents sought further detail on what was allowed under a Carry in
Beverage License and noted their concerns with activity that is occurring outside in the
parking lot after hours and trash that is left behind by others after hours. Shubies has
posted no trespassing signs on their property and ropes off the outside tented area at the
end of each day. The Police Chief and Town Administrator will look into this matter
further. Motion made and seconded to approve the application from D. J. Colberts, Inc.
d/b/a Shubies,16 Atlantic Avenue. Manager George Shube, for a Carry-in Alcoholic
Beverage License (Beer & Wine) subject to approval from Police Chief, receipt of the
required forms, fees, departmental approvals, CORI review and in accordance with all
State Guidelines and COVID-19 Safety Protocols. Such permit shall expire on an
approval from the ABCC for any future transfer or application of a liquor license. A
TIPS or BAT trained person must be on the premises at all times that Carry-In is allowed.
Hours of operation for Carry In are Monday through Saturday 9:00 a.m. – 8:00 p.m.,
Sundays 12:00 p.m. to 5:00 pm. Seating Capacity = 50. Moved by Mr. Grader,
seconded by Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Depew, in favor, Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from August 6, 2020.
Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Depew in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

POLICE DEPARTMENT. Request. The Police Chief appeared before the Board to
notify them of a vacancy in the Department. Motion made and seconded, on



August 12, 2020
recommendation of the Police Chief, to request a certified list from Human Resources
Division for the purpose of hiring a patrol officer to fill an existing vacancy. Moved by
Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Depew in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Amend. Raymond Design Associates, Designers Services. Motion
made and seconded to amend the contract with Raymond Design Associates in the
amount of eighty-nine thousand nine hundred and three dollars ($89,903.00) and
authorize the Chair to sign a change order on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Grader,
seconded by Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Depew in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Senior Center Kitchen Rehabilitation. Amend. Motion made and
seconded to amend the contract with MJS construction for the Senior Center Kitchen
Rehabilitation by increasing the contract amount by three thousand one hundred and
fifty-three and 05/100 ($3,153.37) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board.
Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Depew in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

TOWN CLERK. Polling Locations. September Primary. Motion made and
seconded, on recommendation of the Town Clerk, to change to polling locations for the
September 1, 2020 State Primary, as follows:
Precints 1 & 2       Village School Gym, 93 Village Street
Precints 4,5 & 6     Marblehead High School Field House, 2 Humphrey Street
Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Depew in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

SURPLUS EQUIPMENT. Motion made and seconded to declare the following items
surplus and no longer need for municipal purpose and available for disposition in
accordance with MGL Chapter 30B and the Town’s policy on surplus equipment:

•      6 window AC units
    o 2 Panasonic
    o 1 LG
    o 1 Amanda
    o 1 Siesta
    o 1 GE
•      1 Metal bookcase 42” x 36
•      1 wooden bench, 48 L 18 H, 18 W
•      Leather arm chair
•      Small wooden book shelf, 36 x 24
•      L shaped office desk
•      White Board, 36 x 48
•      Office Desk
Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Depew in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.



August 12, 2020
RETIREMENT. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of congratulations to Dan
Williams, Local Inspector, on his recent retirement from the Town. Moved by Mr.
Grader, seconded by Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Depew in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION. Letter of Interest. A letter of
interest was received by Candace Sliney as it relates to serving on the Task Force against
Discrimination.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:55 a.m. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by
Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Depew in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor




                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide




August 12, 2020
