                             BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES

                                 September 23, 2020

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                     David Depew
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     James E. Nye

                           Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, September 23, 2020 to order. The following
roll call was taken: Mr. Depew, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, present.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of September 9, 2020,
10:00 a.m., September 9, 2020, 4:00 p.m, and September 15, 2020. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

MARBLEHEAD DISABILITIES COMMISSION. Interview. Appointment. Amy
Hirschron appeared before the Board as it relates to serving on the Disabilities
Commission. Motion made and seconded to appoint Amy Hirschron to the Disabilities
Commission with a term to expire in June 2023. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Depew, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

FORT SEWALL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. Interviews. Appointment. Barton
Hyte and Christine Nuccio appeared before the Board as it relates to serving on the Fort
Sewall Oversight Committee. Motion made and seconded to place both names into
nomination. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Nye; Christine Nuccio; Mr. Grader, Christine Nuccio; Mr. Depew,
Christine Nuccio; Mrs. Belf-Becker, Christine Nuccio. Christine Nuccio appointed to the
Fort Sewall Oversight Committee with a term to expire in June 2021.

MARBLEHEAD CULTURAL COUNCIL. Interview. Appointment. Barbara
Worthen appeared before the Board as if relates to serving on the Marblehead Cultural
Council. Motion made and seconded to appoint Barbara Worthen to the Marblehead
Cultural Council with a term to expire in June 2022. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Depew,
in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PERMISSION. Mural Installation. Village Street Bridge. Sara Field and Rachel
Perrella, Tower School, appeared before the Board seeking permission to have the second
grade from Tower School paint a mural on the Village Street Bridge. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Stephanie Fitzgerald, Tower School, to paint a
temporary mural installation on the Village Street bridge adjacent to the rail trail subject
to receipt of the required Certificate of Liability and that the design of the mural shall be
approved by the Town Administrator and Town Planner before installation and adherence
to all COVID-19 State and local guidelines and safety protocols. Moved by Mr. Grader,
seconded by Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: On a polled vote
the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

RIGHT OF ENTRY. Amend. Tower School. 37 Dartmouth. Motion made and
seconded to amend the Right of Entry Agreement between the Town and The Tower
School of Marblehead, Inc., 37 Dartmouth Street, as presented, and authorize the Chair to
sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Larson Fisher Associates. Marblehead Neck Historic Survey.
Motion made and seconded to award the contract for the Marblehead Neck Historic
Survey to Larson Fisher Associates of Woodstock, NY in the amount of thirty-two
thousand dollars ($32,000) and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the
Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted
as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. GovHR USA. Classification Study. Motion made and seconded to
amend the contract between Gov HR USA for the classification study by extending the
date of completion until December 31, 2020 and authorize the Chair to sign the
amendment on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Depew. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

2020 SPECIAL TOWN MEETING. Open/Close Warrant.
Motion made and seconded that Special Town Meeting be held on Saturday, October 17,
2020 at 9:00 a.m., at 80 Atlantic Avenue, Our Lady Star of the Sea Community Center,
rear parking lot. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor;
Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to open the Warrant for the October 17, 2020 Special Town
Meeting and insert the following articles, noting that the Board will seek to Indefinitely
Postpone many articles:
Article 1 Articles in Numerical Order
Article 2 Reports of Town Officers and Committees

Article 3 Assume Liability
Article 4 Accept Trust Property
Article 5 Lease Town Property
Article 6 Contracts in Excess of Three Years
Article 7 Walls and Fences
Article 8 Water and Sewer Commission Claims
Article 9 Transfer Funds to the Special Education Stabilization Account
Article 10 Unpaid Accounts
Article 11 Medicaid Reimbursement Money
Article 12 Parking Tickets – Increased Fee for Snow Emergency
Article 13 End Current Winter Overnight Parking Ban
Article 14 Financial Assistance for Conservation
Article 15 Ratification of Salary Bylaw
Article 16 Library
Article 17 Pumper Truck
Article 18 Village/Vine/Pleasant
Article 19 Village /Vine /Pleasant Taking for Road Improvements
Article 20 Reduction of Speed Limits
Article 21 Council on Aging – Reduce Number of Board Members from 9 to 7
Article 22 Hotel Tax
Article 23 Meals Tax
Article 24 Land Acquisition 45 - 49 Pleasant Street
Article 25 Leaf Blowers
Article 26 Demolition by Neglect
Article 27 Amend the Bylaws of the Old and Historic District Commission
Chapter 110 Old and Historic Districts
Article 28 Add provision to section 110-4 “Structures and features not
requiring certificates of appropriateness’ for the Old and Historic Marblehead
District Commission.
Article 29 Sustainable Marblehead – Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Article 30 Sustainability Coordinator
Article 31 Stabilization Account
Article 32 Security Required for Certain Contracts
Article 33 Deed Restriction Pickett House
Article 34 Amend Bylaw, Signs
Article 35 Supplemental Appropriation for the Schools
Article 36 Supplemental Expenses of Several Departments
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

Motion made and seconded to close the Warrant for Special Town Meeting, October 17,
2020. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted
as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

QUORUM. Special Town Meeting. Reduction. The Board of Selectmen will discuss
reducing the quorum for the Special Town Meeting at their meeting on Thursday,
October 1, 2020.

WATER AND SEWER COMMISSION. Rate Hearing. Notification was received
from the Water and Sewer Commissioner that the annual Rate Hearing will be held on
October 27, 2020 at 8:00 p.m. via Zoom Meeting. Log in information is available on the
Town’s website www.marblehead.org.

CONDOLENCE. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of condolence to the
family of former Selectmen George Alsburg. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Depew, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

EXECUTIVE SESSION. Motion made and seconded to adjourn to Executive Session
under M.G.L. c. 30A, Sec. 21 for the purpose of discussing pending litigation where the
public discussion on the same may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position
of the public body, votes may be taken, and if they are votes will be released at a time
deemed appropriate by counsel. The Board will not reconvene in open session. Moved
by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Depew. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

