                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                     June 24, 2020

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

Present / remote Dial-in number (US) (253) 215 8782
https://zoom.us/j/7340680306 Meeting ID: 734 068 0306

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                      David Depew
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                     Judith R. Jacobi
                                      James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, June 24, 2020 to order. The following roll
call was taken: Mr. Grader, present; Mrs. Jacobi, present; Mr. Depew, present; Mr. Nye,
present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

OUTDOOR SEATING. OUTDOOR SEATING. The following applications were
reviewed by the Board for outdoor seating.
Maddie’s Sail Loft. 15 State Street. Loretta Laing appeared before the Board seeking
permission for outdoor seating. After review, motion made and seconded, pursuant to
Executive Order COVID-19, No. 35, issued by Governor Baker on June 1, 2020, and
notwithstanding the provisions of Chapter 40A of the General Laws, or any special
permit, variance or other approvals thereunder, or any general or special law to the
contrary, the Board of Selectmen for the Town of Marblehead approves the application
for outdoor seating submitted by Loretta Lang for Maddie’s Sail Loft, located at 15
State Street in Marblehead, Massachusetts, provided that the operation remains in
substantial compliance with the documents, plans and statements contained within said
application and submitted therewith, which documents are incorporated herein by
reference. This approval is freely revocable upon the determination of the Health
Department, Chief of Police, Board of Health, or their designees that the operation of the
outdoor dining area is negatively impacting public health and safety. Further, this
approval shall automatically be rescinded on November 1, 2020 or upon the recission of
Executive Order COVID-19, No. 35, whichever shall come first and is subject to final
approval by the Town Administrator, Police and Fire and receipt of the required tent
permit. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted
as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.




June 24, 2020                               82
Motion made and seconded, pursuant to Executive Order COVID-19, No. 35, issued by
Governor Baker on June 1, 2020, and notwithstanding the provisions of Chapter 138 of
the General Laws, or any or any general or special law or local bylaw, rule, regulation to
the contrary, the Board of Selectmen, as the Local Licensing Authority pursuant to G.L.
c. 138 for the Town of Marblehead shall permit the application for outdoor seating
submitted by Loretta Lang for Maddie’s Sail Loft located at 15 State Street in
Marblehead, Massachusetts, provided that the operation remains in substantial
compliance with the documents, plans and statements contained within said application
and submitted therewith which documents are incorporated herein by reference. This
approval is freely revocable upon the determination of the Health Department, Chief of
Police, Board of Health, or their designees that the operation of the outdoor dining area is
negatively impacting public health and safety. Further, this approval shall automatically
be rescinded on November 1, 2020 or upon the recission of Executive Order COVID-19,
No. 35, whichever shall come first and is subject to final approval by the Town
Administrator, Police and Fire. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

Dolphin Yacht Club. 17 Allerton Place. Ken Martin appeared before the Board
seeking permission for outdoor seating. After review, motion made and seconded,
pursuant to Executive Order COVID-19, No. 35, issued by Governor Baker on June 1,
2020, and notwithstanding the provisions of Chapter 40A of the General Laws, or any
special permit, variance or other approvals thereunder, or any general or special law to
the contrary, the Board of Selectmen for the Town of Marblehead approves the
application for outdoor seating submitted by Ken Martin for Dolphin Yacht Club,
located at 17 Allerton Place in Marblehead, Massachusetts, provided that the operation
remains in substantial compliance with the documents, plans and statements contained
within said application and submitted therewith, which documents are incorporated
herein by reference. This approval is freely revocable upon the determination of the
Health Department, Chief of Police, Board of Health, or their designees that the operation
of the outdoor dining area is negatively impacting public health and safety. Further, this
approval shall automatically be rescinded on November 1, 2020 or upon the recission of
Executive Order COVID-19, No. 35, whichever shall come first and is subject to final
approval by the Town Administrator, Police and Fire. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded
by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded, pursuant to Executive Order COVID-19, No. 35, issued by
Governor Baker on June 1, 2020, and notwithstanding the provisions of Chapter 138 of
the General Laws, or any or any general or special law or local bylaw, rule, regulation to
the contrary, the Board of Selectmen, as the Local Licensing Authority pursuant to G.L.
c. 138 for the Town of Marblehead shall permit the application for outdoor seating
submitted by Ken Martin for Dolphin Yacht Club located at 17 Allerton Place in
Marblehead, Massachusetts, provided that the operation remains in substantial



June 24, 2020                                83
compliance with the documents, plans and statements contained within said application
and submitted therewith which documents are incorporated herein by reference. This
approval is freely revocable upon the determination of the Health Department, Chief of
Police, Board of Health, or their designees that the operation of the outdoor dining area is
negatively impacting public health and safety. Further, this approval shall automatically
be rescinded on November 1, 2020 or upon the recission of Executive Order COVID-19,
No. 35, whichever shall come first and is subject to final approval by the Town
Administrator, Police and Fire. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

REAPPOINTMENT. Constable. Civil Service. Motion made and seconded to re
appoint Julio Carrasquillo as Constable, to serve civil service, with a term to expire in
June 2021 and subject to the proper bond on file with the Town Clerk. Moved by Mrs.
Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

APPOINTMENT. Constable. Motion made and seconded to appoint Cindy Diaz as
Constable, to serve civil service, with a term to expire in June 2021 and subject to the
proper bond on file with the Town Clerk. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Jacobi, in favor;
Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

HOLIDAY HOURS. In observance of July 4th Mary Alley and Abbot Hall will be open
to the public as follows:
Week of June 29 – July 3, 2020
Monday, June 29, 2020       8:30 am – 4:30 pm
Tuesday, June 30, 2020      8:30 am – 4:30 pm
Wednesday, July 1, 2020     8:30 am – 5:30 pm
Thursday, July 2, 2020      8:30 am – 12:00 pm
Friday, July 3, 2020        CLOSED

CARETAKER. Fort Beach. Letter of Interest. A letter of interest was received from
Toby Reiley as it relates to serving as Assistant Care Taker at Fort Beach.

CULTURAL COUNCIL. Letter of Interest. A letter of interest was received from
Barbara Worthen as it relates to serving on the Cultural Council.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:40 a.m. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by
Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr.
Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.


                                      Kyle A. Wiley
                                      Administrative Aide



June 24, 2020                                84
