                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                         MINUTES

                                     March 26, 2020

Board met in session at 9:00 a.m. via:

Present / remote Dial-in number (US) (253) 215 8782
Meeting ID: 853 428 883

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                 Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                     Judith R. Jacobi
                                      James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Thursday, March 26, 2020 to order. The following roll
call was taken: Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Jacobi, present; Mr.
Christensen, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of March 11, 2020,
March 17, 2020 and March 23, 2020. No one was opposed. The motion passed.

LICENSING. 2020-2021. All Alcoholic Beverage License Seasonal Renewals.
Motion made and seconded to renew the following All Alcoholic Seasonal Club
License(s) subject to all taxes and fees to the Town being paid, receipt of all applicable
departmental approvals, CORI approval and compliance with Chapter 304 of the Acts of
2004:
    Eastern Yacht Club – Pool License, 42 -44 Foster Street, Manager: Jeffrey
       Wargo
    Dolphin Yacht Club, 17 Allerton Place, Manager: Ken Martin.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follow: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor;
Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. Local/Sunday Entertainment License. Dolphin Yacht Club. Motion
made and seconded to renew the following Local/Sunday Entertainment license, subject
to all taxes and fees to the Town being paid and approval from the Commonwealth’s
Department of Public Safety for Sunday Entertainment:
      Dolphin Yacht Club, 17 Allerton Place
No one was opposed. The motion passed.

ELBRIDGE GERRY ELEMENTARY SCHOOL. Amend Contract. Motion made
and seconded to approve the amendment to the Owner – Construction Manager


March 26, 2020                              25
Agreement, Elbridge Gerry Elementary School, as presented, and authorize the Chair to
sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. No one was
opposed. The motion passed.

PERMISSION. Black Cat 10/20 Miler. Revised date. Motion made and seconded to approve
the request from Brandi Dion, B&S Fitness Companies, to amend the previously approved date to
run the Black Cat 10/20 Miler from April 4, 2020 to August 8, 2020 subject to approval from the
Police Chief, Recreation and Parks, and the usual rules, regulations, fees and receipt of the
required Certificate of Insurance. No permanent markings are allowed on the streets and any
temporary markings shall be removed at the conclusion of the event. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi,
seconded by Mr. Nye. No one was opposed. The motion passed.

CONTRACT. Municipal Seawall Assessment. Motion made and seconded to award
the contract for Municipal Seawall Assessment project to the Woods Hole Group of
Bourne, MA in the amount of twenty-two thousand two hundred and sixty-
seven ($22,267.00) and authorize the Chair to sign the contract of behalf of the Board.
Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. No one was opposed. The motion passed.

APPOINTMENT. Board of Retirement. Motion made and seconded to appoint Yeimi Colon,
Assistant Director, Accounting, as acting Ex Officio member of the Board of Retirement.
Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. No one was opposed. The motion passed.

CABLE TELEVISION ADVISORY COMMITTEE. Resignation. Motion made and
seconded to accept the letter of resignation from Wayne Arvidson and to send a letter of
appreciation for his service to the Town. Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye.
No one was opposed. The motion passed.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 9:30 a.m. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mr. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.



                                       Kyle A. Wiley, remotely
                                       Administrative Aide




March 26, 2020                                26
