                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                     January 8, 2020

Board met in session at 7:30 p.m. at Mary A. Alley Building, 7 Widger Road.
Lower Level Conference Room

Present (constituting a quorum):

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                 Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                     Judith R. Jacobi
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye

                             Jason Silva, Town Administrator

PUBLIC HEARING. Licensing. Transfer, Wine and Malt Beverage License w/
Cordials. 1 Atlantic Avenue. Continued. Motion made and seconded, at the request
of the applicant, Shin Dynasty, to continue the public hearing for the transfer of the Wine
and Malt Beverage License w/ Cordials at 1 Atlantic Avenue to January 22, 2020 at 7:30
p.m. at Marblehead High School, 2 Humphrey Street, Library. All in favor.

TOWN PLANNER/CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER. Rebecca Cutting, Town
Planner/Chief Procurement Officer, appeared before the Board as is relates to the Gerry
School property. Motion made and seconded to declare a portion of the town owned
property, formerly known as the Gerry School, at 50 Elm Street, which consists of land
approximately 19,023 square feet in size and the existing former Gerry School building,
surplus and available for disposition all in accordance with Mass General Law. All in
favor. Motion made and seconded to authorize the Chief Procurement Officer to prepare
and issue a Request for Proposal and dispose of all in accordance with applicable laws.
All in favor.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from December 11,
2019. All in favor. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from December
19, 2019. All in favor.

PUBLIC HEARING. Cable Television Licensing Renewal. Verizon New England.
The Board held a public hearing on the renewal of the Cable Television License of
Verizon New England Inc. Robert Peck, Chair, Cable Television Advisory Committee,
Attorney William Solomon, town counsel, and Attorney Kerbey Harrington, Verizon
New England counsel appeared before the Board. Ruth Ferguson and David Patten,
Committee Members and Joan Goloby and James Maroney, MHTV, were also present.
Mr. Peck reviewed the renewal process with the Board and the terms and conditions of



January 8, 2020                              1
the license. Verizon is seeking a 5-year license renewal instead of 10, wishing to take a
more cautious and conservative approach. No one spoke in opposition or in favor of the
license renewal. Motion made and seconded that the Board of Selectmen, as cable
television license Issuing Authority, vote as follows: to grant the subject Cable
Television Renewal License, with an effective date of January 8, 2020, to Verizon New
England Inc. All terms and conditions contained in this Renewal License have been
agreed to by Verizon by and through its authorized representative. All in favor.

PERMISSION. Film/block public ways. Disney+/Magic Wand Productions. Greg
Chiodo, Location Manager, Disney+/Magic Wand Productions, appeared before the
Board seeking permission to film scenes for a feature film “Frills” in various location in
Town. Several residents addressed the Board and Mr. Chiodo with their concerns; lack
of communication with film company, scheduling, clean up and compensation. The
Board asked Mr. Chiodo to continue to reach out to businesses and neighbors that will be
impacted and to report back to the Board next week. No votes were taken.

PARKING REGULATIONS. Gerry School Parking Lot. The Board discussed
parking regulations for the Gerry School parking lot. Jody Magee appeared before the
Board in support of restricting parking during the daylight hours to allow access to the
playground area. Motion made and seconded to post “no parking 8:00 a.m. – 8:00 p.m.”
in the parking lot of the Gerry School. All in favor.

PERMISSION. YMCA of the North Shore. Ring around the Neck 10K. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from Carol Meyer, Lynch van Otterloo
YMCA, to hold the Run to the Neck 10K Certified Road Race on Sunday, May 17, 2020
subject to approval from the Marblehead Police, Fire, Recreation and Parks Department,
police details and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance. No permanent
markings are allowed on the streets and any temporary markings must be removed at the
end of the event. All in favor.

PERMISSION. YMCA of the North Shore. Firecracker 5K. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Carol Meyer, Lynch van Otterloo YMCA, to hold
the Firecracker 5K Certified Road Race on Sunday, June 28, 2020 subject to approval
from the Marblehead Police, Fire, Recreation and Parks Department, police details and
receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance. No permanent markings are allowed on
the streets and any temporary markings must be removed at the end of the event. All in
favor.

CONTRACT. Shoe Shed. Motion made and seconded to award the contract for the
Shoe Shed Restoration to JJ Welch Co, of Salem, MA in the amount of twenty-three
thousand nine hundred dollars ($23,900.00) and authorize the Chair to sign the contact on
behalf of the Board. All in favor.

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Perlow Wedding. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Matthew G. Perlow to use Abbot Hall auditorium on Saturday,




January 8, 2020                             2
July 11, 2020 for a wedding ceremony subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees and
receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Amend. Abbot Hall Restoration Project. Motion made and seconded
to amend the contract between the Town and Kronenberger and Sons for the Abbot Hall
Restoration Project by increasing the contract amount by sixty-five thousand three
hundred forty-two and 97/100 dollars ($65,342.97) and authorize the Chair to sign the
Change Order on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

MASS CULTURAL COUNCIL. Facilities Fund Grant(s). Marblehead Little
Theatre and Marblehead Arts Association Inc. Motion made and seconded to send a
letter of support to the Mass Cultural Council, Facilities Fund, on behalf of Marblehead
Little Theatre. All in favor. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of support to the
Mass Cultural Council, Facilities Fund, on behalf of Marblehead Arts Association. All in
favor.

PERMISSION. Miles for Mary. 5K run/walk. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from William H. Park to hold the annual Miles for Mary Memorial
5K run/walk to support Brain Cancer research on Saturday, October 24, 2020 from 8:30
a.m. – 12:00 noon subject to approval from Chief Picariello, Recreation and Parks
Department, receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance and police details. No
permanent markings shall be made on the streets and any temporary markings shall be
removed at the conclusion of the event. The event will start and finish at Devereux
Beach. All in favor.

CONGRATULATIONS. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of congratulations
to Helaine Hazlett on being named “Person of the Year” by the Lynn Item. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 9:30 p.m. All in favor.



                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide




January 8, 2020                             3
