                               BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                        MINUTES

                                      June 10, 2020

Board met in session at 1000 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

Present / remote Dial-in number (US) (253) 215 8782
https://zoom.us/j/99672013402     Meeting ID: 996 7201 3402

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                 Harry C. Christensen, Jr.
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                     Judith R. Jacobi
                                      James E. Nye

                             Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, June 10, 2020 to order. The following roll
call was taken: Mr. Grader, present; Mrs. Jacobi, present; Mr. Christensen, present; Mr.
Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

COMMUNITY DISCUSSION. Combatting Racism. The Board of Selectmen invited
members of the Marblehead Racial Justice Team, Task Force against Discrimination and
Team Harmony to their meeting to talk about racism and racial injustice in the
community and to start a dialogue on how the Town, and these organizations, can support
each other and work together collaboratively to combat racism. Each organization made
a brief introduction to the Board, stating their mission, vision and detailing contributions
they have made to the Town as well as their goals moving forward. A lengthy discussion
followed. Committee members stated the importance of the Town and committees
working together, sharing resources and the potential of having quarterly conversations to
continue the current momentum.

CONTRACT. Bituminous Concrete. Motion made and seconded to award a contract
to Aggregate Industries North East Region Inc. of Saugus MA in the amount of One
hundred and sixty-eight thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ($168,250.00) and
authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs.
Jacobi. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Fort Sewall. Amend. Motion made and seconded to amend the contract
for the Fort Sewall land restoration project between the Town and Sciaba Construction by
increasing the amount by seven thousand five hundred and eighty-eight and 90/100
dollars ($7,588.90) and authorize the Chari to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by
Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs.



June 10, 2020                               49
Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Auctioneers. 18 Turner Road. Motion made and seconded to award a
contract to Sullivan & Sullivan Auctioneers LLC, to conduct a Tax Possession Auction
for 18 Turner Road on behalf of the Town and to sign the Legal Notice of Auction.
Moved by Mrs. Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Jacobi, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

BELLRINGING. July 4th. Motion made and seconded to request that church bells
throughout the Town be rung on Saturday, July 4, 2020 at the usual holiday hours: 7:30
a.m. to 8:00 a.m., 12:00 noon to 12:30 p.m., 6:00 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. Moved by Mrs.
Jacobi, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Jacobi,
in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

The Chair and Board members acknowledged Mr. Christensen’s last regular board
meeting. Mr. Christensen is not running for re-election this year. Mr. Christensen
thanked the Board members and the Town Administrator and said he will be back and
running next year!

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 11:25 a.m. Moved my Mr. Christensen,
seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Jacobi, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Christensen, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.



                                      Kyle A. Wiley
                                      Administrative Aide




June 10, 2020                               50
