                             BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES

                                    March 24, 2021

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, March 10, 2021 to order. The following roll
call was taken: Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

STATEMENT. The Chair read a statement regarding recent events both locally and
nationally stating “the Board deplores the hate crimes in Georgia, the shooting in
Boulder, CO, the audibles of the Duxbury football team and the swastika painted on a
rock in the Forest River Conservation Area.....It is overwhelming and we must do
better...we are lucky to have numerous groups of dedicated individuals working on the
issues and trying to find solutions to these challenging problems.”

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from March 10, 2021.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION. Interview/Appointment. Reece
Dahlberg appeared before the Board as it relates to serving on the Task Force against
Discrimination. Motion made and seconded to appoint Reece Dahlberg to the Task Force
against Discrimination with a term to expire in June 2021. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded
by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

REAPPOINTMENT. Inspector of Animals. Motion made and seconded to reappoint
Daniel Proulx Inspector of Animals with a term to expire April 30, 2022. Moved by Mr.
Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

COMMUNITY GOLF DAY. Motion made and seconded to award the Marblehead
Community Counseling Center use of the Tedesco Country Club facilities for
Community Golf Day. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote
the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in
favor.




March 24, 2021                             23
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Celebrate Marblehead. Motion made and seconded
to approve the request from Daniel Brothers, President, Chamber of Commerce, to hold
the 7th annual “Celebrate Marblehead” June 11 – October 31, 2021 and to allow the
businesses in Town the following considerations subject to receipt of the required
Certificate of Insurance and compliance with ADA, Fire, Building, Zoning and Health
Department requirements and in accordance with all State Guidelines and COVID-19
Safety Protocols:
          Allow tables and/or displays outside of stores
            o Business will remain compliant with all ADA, fire, building and zoning
                 codes.
            o Tables and/or displays will allow for the required 36 inches of sidewalk
                 space, excluding curb, for handicapped accessibility requirements.
            o Sidewalk space will allow for 48 inches, however, an unobstructed 36-
                 inch path of travel, excluding curb, will be maintained past any sidewalk
                 obstruction. Such obstructions include but not limited to utility poles, mail
                 boxes, trees and open areas around them, street lights, traffic signal bases
                 and pre-cast foundations and other signal hardware, hydrants, signs and
                 poles.
            o It is preferred that tables and chairs are made of natural materials, ie: wood
                 or metal.
          Permit outdoor entertainment from Thursday–Sunday from 10 AM–8
            PM
            o Business will remain compliant with all ADA, fire, building and zoning
                 codes.
            o Entertainment will only include small or solo performances without
                 amplification.
          Restaurant outdoor seating
                 A separate application must be submitted to the Board of Selectmen for
                 outdoor restaurant seating.
          Allow small beautification projects
            o Business will remain compliant with all ADA, fire, building and zoning
                 codes:
            i.e. flower pots along sidewalks- placement will allow for the required 36
            inches of sidewalk space for handicapped accessibility requirements.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM. Motion made and seconded to sponsor Joseph and
Lucretia Brown educational program in partnership with the Task Force Against
Discrimination, Racial Justice Team, Team Harmony, League of Women Voters,
Marblehead Police Department, and Marblehead Museum. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded
by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

SURPLUS EQUIPMENT. Motion made and seconded to approve the request from
Robert Dever, Department of Public Works, to declare the following items surplus and no


March 24, 2021                               24
longer needed for municipal purpose and available for disposition in accordance with
MGL Chapter 30B and the Town’s policy on surplus equipment: 10 old plows. Moved
by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONSERVATION COMMISSION. Letter of Interest. The Board received a letter of
interest from Kristopher Meola as it relates to serving on the Conservation Commission.

The Chair read a letter from a resident wishing to publicly thank Janet Parker, Director,
Marblehead Food Pantry, for the wonderful work she does.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:20 a.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.


                                      Kyle A. Wiley
                                      Administrative Aide




March 24, 2021                              25
