                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                        MINUTES

                                     March 31, 2021

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye

                             Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, March 10, 2021 to order. The following roll
call was taken: Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from March 24, 2021.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PUBLIC HEARING. Verizon New England Inc. Request. Relocate Pole. Baldwin
Road. The Board reviewed the petition submitted by Verizon New England Inc., seeking
permission to locate poles, wires, cables and fixtures, including the necessary anchors,
guys and other such sustaining and protecting fixtures, along and across the following
public way or ways:
BALDWIN ROAD: Relocate one (1) JO pole, P.67-8 located on the westerly side of
Baldwin Road to a point approximately 45’ northwesterly from its current location.
said poles to be erected substantially in accordance with the plan filed in the Selectmen’s
Office marked – Verizon N.E. Inc., No. 4A0MQ2L. Petitioners agree to reserve space
for one crossarm at a suitable point on each of said poles for the fire and police telephone
and telegraph signal wires belonging to the municipality and used by it exclusively for
municipal purposes. No one spoke in favor or against the petition. Motion made and
seconded to approve petition VZ N.E. Inc. Plan No. 4AOMQ2L, dated February 4, 2021,
from Verizon New England Inc., as presented, subject to Verizon hiring Police details as
required by the Chief. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote
the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in
favor.

CONTRACT. Fort Sewall. Amend. Motion made and seconded to amend the contract
for the Fort Sewall project between Sciaba Construction of Walpole by increasing the
amount by six thousand five hundred and ninety-nine and 93/100 dollars ($6,103.93) and
authorize the Chair to sign the amendment on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Archives Facility. Designer Services. Motion made and seconded to
award the contract for the Design Services for the Archives Facility to the Smithgroup of
Boston, MA in the amount of fifty-five thousand seven hundred and thirty-four & 01/100
dollars ($55,734.01) and authorize the Chair to sign the contact on behalf of the Board.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PROCLAMATION. Public Safety Telecommunicators Week. Motion made and
seconded to declare April 11-17, 2021 Public Safety Telecommunicators week and to
prepare a proclamation in honor of this. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor;
Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

APPOINTMENT. Interim Building Commissioner. Motion made and seconded to
appoint Robert Ives interim Building Commissioner. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

OLD BURIAL HILL COMMITTEE. Letter of Interest. A letter of interest was
received from Judy Gates as it relates to serving on the Old Burial Hill Committee.

2021 Public Safety Telecommunicators Week. The Chair read a letter from Teresa
Collins stating it has been an incredibly challenging year for public safety
telecommunicators and that their Supervisor, Amy Gilliland and Dispatcher Scott
Kaufman were both celebrating 25 years of service to the Town, and that Amy Gilliland
has done an incredible job keeping everyone current with mandatory certifications and
training.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:20 a.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

