                                 BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                          MINUTES

                                         July 14, 2021

Board met in session at 7:00 p.m. via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                  Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                     M. C. Moses Grader
                                         James E. Nye
                                       Erin M. Noonan
                                        Alexa J. Singer
                               Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of July 14, 2021 to order. The following roll call was
taken: Mrs. Noonan, present; Mrs. Singer, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye,
present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from June 9, 2021 and
June 23, 2021. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

SPEED LIMITS. Police Department. Police Chief Dennis King appeared before the
Board as it relates to Article 20 from Town Meeting October 17, 2020, reduction in speed
limits. Motion made and seconded to approve the request from Chief of Police, Dennis
King, consistent with action taken at Town Meeting on October 17, 2021, more
specifically Article 20 relating to a reduction in speed limits, and to set the speed limit in
Marblehead at 25 miles per hour in all areas in Town, unless otherwise posted and as
defined by state law as “thickly settled or business districts” which are not on a state
highway. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

POLICE DEPARTMENT. Civil Service Request. Police Chief Dennis King appeared
before the Board to request a civil service list. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Chief of Police, Dennis King, to obtain a certified list of candidates from the State
Human Resources Division for the purpose of filling two open full time police patrol officer
positions. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted
as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

MASSPORT COMMUNITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE. MIT Approach
Procedure. Charles Gessner, Massport Community Advisory Committee, appeared
before the Board seeking their support of MIT Approach Procedure recommendation 2A-


July 14, 2021                                  77
1. If implemented Marblehead would see a significant reduction in annoying approach
noise by jet aircraft especially in the evening. Motion made and seconded to send a letter
in support of Approach Procedure Recommendation 2A-1 to the Massachusetts Port
Authority and the Federal Aviation Administration. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs.
Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PERMISSION. Black Cat 10/20 Miler. B&S Fitness. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Ashley Steeves, B&S Fitness Companies, to hold the Wicked 10,
13.1 and 20 miler on Sunday, September 19, 2021 subject to approval of the Marblehead
Police and Recreation and Parks, receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance naming the
Town of Marblehead as additionally insured and police details. All distances will start and
finish at Salem Willows. Start times begin at 7:00 am with the last runners exiting Marblehead
by 11:30 am. No permanent markings shall be made on the streets and any temporary
markings shall be removed at the conclusion of the event. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded
by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs.
Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. MSBA Budget Revision Request. Number 13. Motion made and
seconded to approve the Project Funding Budget Revision Request, Number 13, as
submitted, and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

CONTRACT. Amend. Designer Services. Raymond Design Associates, Gerry
School. Motion made and seconded to approve the Amendment No. 8, Contract for
Designer Services, as submitted, in the amount of not to exceed allowance amount of $5,000
($5,000.00), and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

BELL SCHOOL. Gilbane Building Company. Change Order #7. Motion made and
seconded to approve Gilbane Owner Change Order (OCO) #7 in the amount of thirty-
seven thousand and five hundred and forty-nine dollars ($37,549.00) and authorize the Chair
to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. On Call Plumbing. Extend. Motion made and seconded, together with
the School Committee, to extend the contract for On Call Plumbing between the Town
and Robert Irving & Sons of Lynn, in the amount of $43,080, and authorize the Chair to
sign the contract on behalf of the Board of Selectmen. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs.
Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.



July 14, 2021                                  78
CONTRACT. HVAC Mechanical Repairs. Extend. Motion made and seconded,
together with the School Committee, to extend the contract for HVAC Mechanical
Repairs between the Town and Cooling & Heating Specialists of Newton in the amount
of $29,980 and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board of
Selectmen. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Fire Alarm Maintenance. Extend. Motion made and seconded,
together with the School Committee, to extend the contract for Fire Alarm Maintenance
between the Town and B&B Engineering, dba L.W. Bills of Georgetown, MA, in the
amount of $51,400, and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board of
Selectmen. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Elevator Maintenance. Extend. Motion made and seconded, together
with the School Committee, to extend the contract for Elevator Maintenance Contract
between the Town and Embree Elevator of Woburn, MA in the amount of $43,080, and
authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board of Selectmen. Moved by
Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Marblehead Little Theatre. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Andrew Barnett, Facility Manager/Technical
Director, Marblehead Little Theatre, to use Abbot Hall to perform an adaptation of The
Pirates of Penzance in March and April 2022 subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees
and receipt of the required Certificate of Liability and approval from the Fire Chief and
Building Department, and to waive the rental fee for this event. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

SURPLUS EQUIPMENT. Motion made and seconded to declare the following items
as surplus and no longer needed for Municipal purpose so that it may be disposed of in
accordance with the Town’s policy on surplus equipment:
     Small table lamp
     Canon CanoScan 880F
     Altec Lansing Speaker(s)
     HP video monitor
     Antique projector
     Magnovox video camera
     Panasonic wireless phone
     Scales
     LED floor lamp


July 14, 2021                              79
     Plexiglass – 95” x 95” x .025”
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Marblehead Arts Association. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from Patricia Baker, Executive Director, for a
one-day liquor license on Thursday, July 29, 2021, at 8 Hooper Street for a jazz concert fund
raiser subject to the following conditions:
        Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
        Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
be purchased from an authorized source.
        Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the requirements of
G. L. c. 138.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Ms. Noonan, in favor; Ms. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor, Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mrs. Belf Becker, in favor.

ANIMAL CONTROL. Dangerous Dog Hearing. Motion made and seconded to
appoint the Town Administrator to investigate and hold a public hearing on a request for
a dangerous dog hearing on a dog complaint received from Marybeth Reddish and to report
his findings back to the Board. 10 days written notice of the public hearing shall be
provided to the dog owner. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Fort Sewall. Amend. Motion made and seconded to amend the contract
between Sciaba Construction for the Fort Sewall Phase II project by decreasing the
contract amount by seven thousand one hundred and forty & 15/100 Dollars $7140.15
and authorize the Chair to sign the amendment on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr.
Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Abbot Hall. Architectural and Engineering Services. Motion made
and seconded to award a contract to McGinley Kalsow of Lexington, MA for
architectural and structural engineering services related to the Abbot Hall Auditorium
Decorative Finishes and Plaster repairs on the ceiling below the balcony in the amount of
nine thousand nine hundred dollars and 00/100 ($9,900.00) and authorize the Chair to
sign the agreement of behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor;
Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Salem Sound 2000. Amend. Motion made and seconded to amend the
contract with Salem Sound 2000 (DBA Salem Coastwatch) for community engagement



July 14, 2021                                80
and facilitation of the Climate Adaptation Strategies for Marblehead and its Harbor
Project in the amount of two thousand dollars and 00/100 ($2000.00) and authorize the
Chair to sign a contract on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. TB Equipment. Council on Aging. Amend. Motion made and seconded to
amend the contract with TB Equipment Corporation for the COA Land works project in
the amount of one thousand five hundred dollars and 00/100 ($ 1500.00) and authorize the
Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. CliftonLarsonAllen LLP. Finance Department. Motion made and
seconded to enter into a contract between the Town and CliftonLarsonAllen LLP (CLA)
in the amount not to exceed one hundred thousand dollars and 00/100 ($100,000.00) for
financial services and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr.
Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. SPUR. Motion made and seconded to approve the request
from Jocelyn Cook, SPUR, to use Abbot Hall on Saturday, July 17, 2021 from 6:30 pm – 9:30
pm, set up starting at 10:00 am, for their annual fundraiser and to erect a tent on the training field
and one port-a-potty subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees, Certificate of Insurance and tent
permit. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted
as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

SURPLUS EQUIPMENT. Motion made and seconded to declare the following items
as surplus and no longer needed for Municipal purpose so that it may be disposed of in
accordance with the Town’s policy on surplus equipment:
     50 bicycles of various makes, models and colors
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor. Abbot Hall or Lee Mansion. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from George McCabe, North Shore Bartending, for a one-day beer/wine
liquor license on Saturday, July 17, 2021, at either the Lee Mansion, 181 Washington Street, or
Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street, weather dependent, from 6:30 pm – 9:30 pm, for Spur’s
annual fundraiser subject to the following conditions:
        Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
        Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will be
purchased from an authorized source.
        Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and disposal
of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the requirements of G. L. c. 138.



July 14, 2021                                    81
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LETTERS ON INTEREST. The following letters of interest were received by the
Board: Old Burial Hill, Donald Doliber; Conservation Commission, Christian
Torstensson; Old and Historic Districts Commission, Paul Green.

CONSERVATION COMMISSION/CULTURAL COUNCIL. Deadline.
Interviews. Motion made and seconded to set a deadline of Friday July 23, 2021 to
receive letters of interest to serve on the Conservation Commission and the Cultural
Council. Applicants will be interviewed at the Boards meeting on Wednesday, July 28,
2021. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION. Resignation. A letter was received
from Loren Weston as it related to her resignation from the Task Force Against
Discrimination. Motion made and seconded to accept, with regret, and send a letter of
appreciation. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LOCAL RAPID RECOVERY PROGRAM (LRRP). The Town Administrator
advised the Board of the July 20th public meeting forum related to the Local Rapid
Recovery Program, via ZOOM at 9:00 a.m.

CONGRATULATIONS. MHTV. The Board congratulated MHTV on their 7th time
being recognized for Overall Excellence in Public Television.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:250 p.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs.
Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.



                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide




July 14, 2021                              82
