                               BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                        MINUTES

                                     March 10, 2021

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye

                             Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, March 10, 2021 to order. The following roll
call was taken: Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from February 24, 2021
and January 21, 2021. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote
the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

STATEMENT. The Chair read a statement condemning the recent acts of hate in Town,
stating in part, “We, together with the Task Force against Discrimination, Racial Justice
Team and Team Harmony continue to work together to build a more welcoming
community that embraces and celebrates our differences and diversity......We are better
than this. I am angered and saddened, not only as a member of the Board of Selectmen,
but as a community member.......enough is enough.”

WATER AND SEWER COMMISSION. Fort Beach Pump Station. Amy McHugh,
Superintendent, Water and Sewer Commission, appeared before the Board to review the
Critical Infrastructure resiliency project at the Fort Beach Pump Station. Access is
needed to work on 2 manhole covers on town owned property. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Amy McHugh, Superintendent, Water and Sewer,
to allow access to Fort Beach to complete work on 2 manhole covers on Parcel 167-18,
March 11- 12, 2021, for staging, equipment and supplies, and to block 4 parking spaces
at the entrance to the beach for staging, loading, and unloading, subject to receipt of the
required Certificates of Insurance. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

TAXATION AID COMMITTEE. Interview. Appointment. Motion to appoint
Bonnie Grenier to the Taxation Aid Committee with a term to expire in June 2021.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.




March 10, 2021                              17
SEAGLASS VILLAGE. Heidi Whear, President and Founder and Judy Gates, Director,
Seaglass Village, appeared before the Board to present a PowerPoint on Seaglass Village,
a non-profit organization, providing services to seniors in the community that allows
them to stay in their homes as they age and to foster connections for socialization among
themselves and in the wider community.

CONTRACT. SJ Services. COVID Cleaning. AMEND. Motion made and seconded
to amend the contract between the Town and SJ Services for COVID cleaning services by
increasing the contract amount by four thousand five hundred and sixty-eight and 66/100
dollars ($4,568.66) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr.
Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

COMPENSATION COMMITTEE. Appointment. Motion made and seconded to
appoint Stephen Poulos to the Compensation Committee with a term to expire in June
2021. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

APPOINTMENT. Retirement Board. Motion made and seconded to appoint Stephen
Poulos to the Retirement Board with a term to expire in June 2021. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

POLICE DEPARTMENT. Indemnification. Motion made and seconded, on
recommendation from Police Chief, to indemnify Lt. Lunt for injuries sustained while on
duty February 25, 2021. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote
the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in
favor.

LICENSING. 2021-2022. All Alcoholic Beverage License Seasonal Renewals.
Motion made and seconded to renew the following All Alcoholic Seasonal Club
License(s) subject to all taxes and fees to the Town being paid, receipt of all applicable
departmental approvals, CORI approval and compliance with Chapter 304 of the Acts of
2004:
     Eastern Yacht Club – Pool License, 42 -44 Foster Street, Manager: Jeffrey
       Wargo
     Dolphin Yacht Club, 17 Allerton Place, Manager: Ken Martin.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. Local/Sunday Entertainment License. Dolphin Yacht Club. Motion
made and seconded to renew the following Local/Sunday Entertainment license, subject
to all taxes and fees to the Town being paid and approval from the Commonwealth’s
Department of Public Safety for Sunday Entertainment:
      Dolphin Yacht Club, 17 Allerton Place




March 10, 2021                              18
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. Temporary Outdoor Table Service. Motion made and seconded,
pursuant to Executive Order COVID-19, No. 35, issued by Governor Baker on June 1,
2020, and Order Making Certain Phase III Adjustments (also known as COVID-19 Order
No. 50) issued September 10, 2020, which extends the period for outdoor table service by
licensees 60 days past the end of the state of emergency, and notwithstanding the
provisions of Chapter 40A of the General Laws, or any special permit, variance or other
approvals thereunder, or any general or special law to the contrary, the Board of
Selectmen for the Town of Marblehead shall reinstate approval to the following
previously approved Licensees for outdoor seating, provided that the operations remain in
substantial compliance with the documents, plans and statements on file with the Town.
This approval is freely revocable upon the determination of the Health Department, Chief
of Police, Board of Health, or their designees that the operation of the outdoor dining area
is negatively impacting public health and safety. Further, this approval shall
automatically be rescinded on December 31, 2021 or upon the recission of Executive
Order COVID-19, No. 35 or No. 50, whichever shall come first and is subject to final
approval by the Town Administrator, Police and Fire and to coordinate with the
businesses on School Street the placement of street closure sign at School/Pleasant Street.

257 Washington Street, d/b/a The Barrelman
Caffe Italia, 10 School Street
Casa Mia, 261 Washington Street
DJ. Colbert Inc., d/b/a Shubie’s, 16 Atlantic Avenue
Dolphin Yacht Club, 17 Allerton Place
Food at 5 LLC, d/b/a 5 Corners Kitchen, 2 School Street
Gerry #5 VFA, 210 Beacon Street
Eat Well Kitchen, 12 Atlantic Avenue
Harborlight Inn, 58 Washington Street
LaSirena Café, 146 Washington Street
Three Cod Tavern, 141 Pleasant Street
The Landing Restaurant, 81 Front Street
The Little Store, 9 Green Street
Maria’s Java Sun, 35 Atlantic Avenue
Maddies Sail Loft, 15 State Street
Tulamex Inc. d/b/a Casa Corona, 33 Smith Street
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded, pursuant to Executive Order COVID-19, No. 35, issued by
Governor Baker on June 1, 2020, and Order Making Certain Phase III Adjustments (also
known as COVID-19 Order No. 50) issued September 10, 2020, which extends the period
for outdoor table service by licensees 60 days past the end of the state of emergency, and
notwithstanding the provisions of Chapter 138 of the General Laws, or any or any general
or special law or local bylaw, rule, regulation to the contrary, and the Town’s Carry-In



March 10, 2021                              19
Beverage Policy the Board of Selectmen, as the Local Licensing Authority pursuant to
G.L. c. 138 for the Town of Marblehead shall reinstate the following previously approved
Licensees for outdoor seating provided that the operations remain in substantial
compliance with the documents, plans and statements on file with the Town. This
approval is freely revocable upon the determination of the Health Department, Chief of
Police, Board of Health, or their designees that the operation of the outdoor dining area is
negatively impacting public health and safety. Further, this approval shall automatically
be rescinded on December 31, 2021 or upon the recission of Executive Order COVID-19,
No. 35 or No. 50, whichever shall come first and is subject to final approval by the Town
Administrator, Police and Fire

257 Washington Street, d/b/a The Barrelman
Caffe Italia, 10 School Street
Casa Mia, 261 Washington Street
DJ. Colbert Inc., d/b/a Shubie’s, 16 Atlantic Avenue
Dolphin Yacht Club, 17 Allerton Place
Food at 5 LLC, d/b/a 5 Corners Kitchen, 2 School Street
Gerry #5 VFA, 210 Beacon Street
Harborlight Inn, 58 Washington Street
LaSirena Café, 146 Washington Street
Three Cod Tavern, 141 Pleasant Street
The Landing Restaurant, 81 Front Street
The Little Store, 9 Green Street
Maddies Sail Loft, 15 State Street
Tulamex Inc. d/b/a Casa Corona, 33 Smith Street
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

Any restaurant seeking to offer outdoor dining, not previously approved by the Board,
should submit a completed application for Outside Dining for review. Email
wileyk@marblehead.org for an Application for Temporary Outdoor Dining.

CONTRACT. Gilbane. Owner Change Order, Gerry School. Motion made and
seconded to approve Owner Change Order (OCO) #2, as submitted, in the amount of
$33,850.00, and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Amend. Designer Services. Raymond Design Associates, Gerry
School. Motion made and seconded to approve the Amendment No. 7, Contract for
Designer Services, as submitted, in the amount of $45,000.00, and authorize the Chair to
sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.




March 10, 2021                              20
CONTRACT. MSBA Budget Revision Request. Number 10. Motion made and
seconded to approve the Project Funding Budget Revision Request, Number 10, as
submitted, and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

CONTRACT. MSBA Budget Revision Request. Number 11. Motion made and
seconded to approve the Project Funding Budget Revision Request, Number 11, as
submitted, and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

ABBOT HALL. Structural Assessment, Attic. Historical Commission. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from Chris Johnston, Historical Commission,
to conduct a preliminary assessment of the Abbot Hall attic, including a code assessment
and a structural assessment, to determine the possibility of pursing a design and cost
study for a permanent location for a museum of Marblehead History. Moved by Mr.
Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

CONTRACT. Abbot Hall Interior Painting. Motion made and seconded to award the
contract for Interior Painting in Abbot Hall to Fox Painting Company of Arlington, MA
in the amount of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on
behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in
favor.

Residents addressed the Board regarding the recent acts of hate in Town and their
concern with diversity on the police force. Mr. Grader and Mr. Nye thanked the Chair
for her earlier statement related to acts in Town and reiterated their efforts and that acts
such as this will not be accepted by the Town.

HEADERS HELPING HEADERS. The Chair thanked Christy Hebert, Ashley
Triscuit, Kristen Salvi Platt, Rachel Leavitt and Sarah Fox for their recent efforts in
securing vaccine appointments for over 400 educators in Town. Everyone who needed
an appointment received one.

COMMUNITY GOLF DAY. Tedesco Country Club. A letter was received from
Mike McGillicuddy, General Manager, Tedesco Country Club, confirming that Monday,
August 2, 2021 is available for the semi-annual Marblehead Outing. Motion made and
seconded to accept letters of interest from any non-profit interested in using the Tedesco
Country Club on August 2, 2021 for Community Golf Day. Deadline to submit letters is
Friday, March 19, 2021 at 12:00 noon. Submit letters to Board of Selectmen, Abbot Hall,
188 Washington Street or via email to wileyk@marblehead.org . All in favor.




March 10, 2021                                21
COMMUNITY GOLF DAY. Letter of Interest. A letter of interest was received from
the Community Counseling Center regarding the Tedesco Country Club Community Golf
Day.

TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION. Letter of Interest. A letter of
interest was received from Reece Dalberg as it relates to serving on the Task Force
against Discrimination. The Board will interview Ms. Dalberg at the meeting on March
24, 2021.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 11:30 a.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.



                                    Kyle A. Wiley
                                    Administrative Aide




March 10, 2021                            22
