                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                   December 8, 2021

Board met in session at 7:00 p.m. via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                      James E. Nye
                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                     Alexa J. Singer

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of December 8, 2021 to order. The following roll call was
taken: Mrs. Noonan, present; Mrs. Singer, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
present.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of November 17, 2021
and November 22, 2021. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote
the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

ANNUAL TREE BURNING. Riverhead. The Fire Chief appeared before the Board to
announce that the annual tree burning will take place on January 6, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. at
Riverhead Beach. Residents can bring their trees to Riverhead Beach to be included in
the tree burning and DPW will be picking up trees curbside as well and drop them at
Riverhead.

SUSTAINABLE MARBLEHEAD. Louise Yarmouth, Executive Director, Sustainable
Marblehead, gave a brief introduction to the Board on the 2 matters before them. First,
Sustainable Marblehead is asking the Town to allocate a portion of ARPA (American
Rescue Plan Act) funds to expand the Tree Department and to request that the town
allocate the necessary funds to hire a Sustainability Director for the Town in 2022. Pal
Bickford, Town Trees and Urban Forestry team, made a further presenation to the Board
summarizing the goals for Urban Forestry reiterating the request to the Board to allocate
ARPA funds to the Tree Department. Mrs. Noonan asked that the Board motion to direct
the APRA working group to consider allocating funds to the Tree Department for the
iprove of outdoor spaces as consistent with the Board of Selectmen’s prioritizing criteria
first priorotu identified as expenses for on going Covid-19 public health and saftery.
Moved by Mrs. Noonan, seconded by Mrs. Singer. Mr. Nye sought clarification on the
vote. The Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr.
Nye, opposed; Mrs. Belf-Becker, opposed. The Chair stated that the ARPA working

group is charged with making these decisions and the voted does not mean the Board is
against the request but would like the decisions to come from the ARPA group.

Lynn Bryant, Sustainable Marblehead Board Member, addressed the Board asking them
to consider allocating the necessary funds to hire a Sustainability Director for the Town
for 2022. Ms. Bryant detailed how a Sustainability Director could assist the Town; plan
for and achieve net zero carbon emissions by 2040, apply for grants, educate residents,
establish benchmarks and metrics for measuring sustainability performace and document
progress, act as resource to regulatory boards, help implement Green Marblehead’s
energy efficiency goals and more. Ms. Bryant asked that the Town adopt a resolution
stating the Town shall work with Sustainable Marblehead to develop this position of
Sustainability Director and that this recommendation be included in the Selectmen’s
budget to be submitted to the Finance Committee in January for Fiscal Year 2022. Board
Members stated they would consider this request as they move forward in the the budget
process. Ms. Bryant asked to work with the Town Administrator and Town Planner to
continue to research and develop a position description, pay range and organization
structure for a Sustainable Director and to report back to the Board of Selectmen in
Janaury.

LICENSING. 2022. Renewals for Businesses in the Town of Marblehead. Moiton
made and seconded to renew the following 2022 Licenses for businesses in the Town of
Marblehead, subject to all taxes and fees to the Town being paid and receipt of all
applicable departmental approvals:

Lodging House Licenses
Harbor Light Inn, 54 Washington Street, Manager: Peter Conway
Harbor Light Inn, 58 Washington Street, Manager: Peter Conway
Marblehead Inn, 264 Pleasant Street, Manager: Richard Cooper

Entertainment Licenses
Boston Yacht Club, One Front Street, Manager: Brian Pelland
Casa Corona, 33 Smith Street, Manager: Jose Bracamontes
Corinthian Yacht Club , One Nahant Street, Manager: David H. Titus
Eastern Yacht Club, 47 Foster Street, Manager: Jeff Wargo
Gerry No.5, V. F. A., Inc., 210 Beacon Street, Manager: Art Dodge
Headers Club, 62 Pleasant Street. Manager: Dincer Ulutas
The Barrelman, 259 Washington Street, Manager: Benjamin Newman
Fen Yang, 40A Atlantic Avenue, Manager: Ling Qin Chen
Harbor Light Inn, 58 Washington Street, Manager: Peter Conway
Imperial Mandarin, 8 Bessom Street, Manager: Huabin Niu
Le Petit Comptoir, 2 Atlantic Avenue, Manager: Alexander Lewis
Maddie’s Sail Loft, 15 State Street, Manager: Loretta Lang
Rip Tide Lounge, 116 Pleasant Street, Manager: George Ciampa
Tedesco Country Club, 154 Tedesco Street, Manager: Michael McGillicuddy
Chaplain Lyman Rollins Post 2005, V. F. W., 321 West Shore Drive, Manager. Edward
Preble

The New Marblehead Landing, 81 Front Street, Manager: Robert Simonelli
Terry’s Olde Fashion Ice Cream, 22 Atlantic Avenue, Manager: Carlos Rocha
Warwick Entertainment LLC, d/b/a The Beacon, 123 Pleasant Street, Manager: David
Zion
Seaside Restaurant Group, LLC. d/b/a Three Cod Tavern, 141 Pleasant Street
Manager: Minot Percy
Neck Run Café, 105 Ocean Avenue, Manager: George Markos

Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to renew the following 2022 Licenses for businesses in the
Town of Marblehead, subject to all taxes and fees to the Town being paid and receipt of
all applicable departmental approvals:

Second Hand Dealers License
Carmen’s Jewelry, 164 Pleasant Street, Manager: Carmen Pugliese
Lucky Elephant, 231 Washington Street, Manager: Megan Holst
Lee Antiques, 235 Washington Street, Manager: Jessica Lee

Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

Moiton made and seconded to renew the following 2022 Licenses for businesses in the
Town of Marblehead, subject to all taxes and fees to the Town being paid and receipt of
all applicable departmental approvals:

Automatic Amusement Device licenses,
Gerry No. 5, V. F. A., Inc.,210 Beacon Street, Manager: Art Dodge
       For the following device:
       Golden Tee Golf LIVE 2013 – Serial # 14-171380L
Maddie’s Sail Loft, 15 State Street, Manager: Loretta Lang
       For a C.D. Player
Rip Tide Lounge, 116 Pleasant Street, Manager: George Ciampa
       For the following three (3) devices:
       Dynamo Pool Table (Serial Number 53678)
       3D Golf Video Game (Serial Number 17216)
       CD Player by ROW AMI (Serial Number 4031277)

Chaplain Lyman Rollins Post 2005, V. F. W., 321 West Shore Drive –
Manager: Edward Preble
       For the following five (5) video game devices:
       Cherry ’96 (Serial Number M2653)
       Cherry ’96 (Serial Number 8135)

       Omega (Serial Number 6257)
       Bugs Fever (Serial Number 7947
       Players Choice (Serial Number 9470)

Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to renew the following Sunday Entertainment Licenses
subject to all fees to the Town being paid and approval from the Commonwealth’s
Department of Public Safety for Sunday Entertainment:

Boston Yacht Club, One Front Street, Manager: Brian Pelland
Casa Corona, 33 Smith Street, Manager: Jose Bracamontes
Corinthian Yacht Club, 1 Nahant Street, Manager: David H. Titus
Eastern Yacht Club, 47 Foster Street, Manager: Jeff Wargo
Tedesco Country Club, 154 Tedesco Street, Manager: Michael McGillicuddy
Fen Yang, 40A Atlantic Avenue, Manager: Ling Qin Chen
Maddie’s Sail Loft Inc., d/b/a/ Maddies Sail Loft, 15 State Street, Manager: Loretta Lang
The New Marblehead Landing, d/b/a The Landing, 81 Front Street,
Manager: Robert Simonelli
Rip Tide Lounge, 116 Pleasant Street, Manager: George A. Ciampa
Gerry #5 Veteran Fireman Association, Inc., 210 Beacon Street, Manager: Art Dodge
Warwick Entertainment LLC, d/b/a The Beacon, 123 Pleasant Street
Manager: David Zion
Chaplain Lyman Rollins Post 2005, V. F. W., 321 West Shore Drive
Manager: Edward Preble
Le Petit Comptoir Wine & Cheese, 1 Atlantic Avenue, Manager: Alexander Lewis

Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to renew the following Common Victualler licenses subject
to all taxes and fees to the Town being paid and receipt of all applicable departmental
approvals:

Amores Tequila Bar, 196 Pleasant St. – Manager: Jose Luis Sanchz
Barrelman, 259 Washington Street –Manager: Benjamin Newman
Barnacle, 141 Front Street – Manager: Jay L. Sahagian
B&B Fish, 195 Pleasant Street, Manager: Jason Santos
Blue Canoe Café, 14 School Street – Manager: Stephanie Mahoney
Café Italia, 10 School Street – Manager: Donna Oliviero
Café Vesuvius, 18 Bessom Street – Manager: Bart Freddo
Casa Corona, 33 Smith Street – Manager: Jose Bracamontes
Casa Mia, 261 Washington Street – Manager: Luigi Scalzi

Driftwood Restaurant, 63 Front Street – Manager: Colleen Galvin
Dunkin’ Donuts, 161 Pleasant Street – Manager: Claudio Santos
Eat Well Kitchen, 40 Atlantic Avenue – Manager: Susan Bergeron
Evans New York Style Deli, Humphrey Street – Manager: Evan Madoff
Fen Yang House II, 40A Atlantic Avenue – Manager: Ling Qin Chen
Fresca’s Pizza and Pasta, Atlantic Ave – Manager: Claudio Aruijo
5 Corners Kitchen, 2-4 School Street – Manager: Barry Edelman
Imperial Mandarin, 165 Pleasant Street - Manager: Huabin Niu
Java Sun, 35 Atlantic Avenue – Manager: Maria Torres
Junji’s, 114 Pleasant Street – Manager: Chittra Suksomboon
The Landing, 81 Front Street – Manger: Robert Simonelli
Le Petit Comptoir, 1 Atlantic Avenue – Manager: Alexander Lewis
Maddie’s Sail Loft, 15 State Street – Manager: Loretta Lang
Manhattan Sandwich Company, 10 Bessom Street – Manager: Michael Goodman
Marblehead House of Pizza, 7 Atlantic Avenue – Manager: Dimitri Zachariadis
Mino’s Roast Beef, 27 Atlantic Avenue -- Manager: Leonard Noci
Muffin Shop, 126 Washington Street -- Manager: Luisa Capasso
Neck Run Café, 105 Ocean Avenue – Manager: George Markos
Plus Café, 43A Atlantic Avenue – Manager: Klevis Qyrasi
Rip-Tide Lounge, Inc., 116 Pleasant Street – Manager: George A. Ciampa
Romano’s Pizzeria, 8 Bessom Street – Manager: Carmela Cardia
Scoop by Sea Salt, 118 Washington Street – Manager: Scott Brankman
Shube’s Liquors, 16 Atlantic Avenue – Manager: George Shube
Soall Bistro, 10 Bessom Street, Manager; Hoang Sa This
Starbucks, 89 Pleasant Street – Manager: Miki Schach
Sea Salt, 126 Washington Sttreet – Manager: Scott Brankman
Terry’s Olde Fashion Ice Cream, 22 Atlantic Avenue – Manager: Carlos Rocha
Thaimarket Inc. 26 Hawkes Street, Manager: Tom Kanchananaga
Mookies at Mugford, LLC, 114 Washington St. Manager: Laetitia Ferguson
The Little Store, 9 Green Street. Manager: Matthew Gateman
Three Cod Tavern, 141 Pleasant Street, Manager: Minot Percy
Tony’s Pizza, 1 School Street – Manager: Antonio Brogna
Village Roast Beef & Seafood, 6 Bessom Street. Manager: Stefano Barbiero
Warwick Entertainment LLC, 123 Pleasant Street, Manager: David Zion

Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to renew the following licenses, subject to all taxes and fees
to the Town being paid and receipt of all applicable departmental approvals:

All-Alcoholic Package Store licenses
Central Plaza Liquors, Inc., d/b/a Beach Bluff Liquors, 260 Humphrey Street
Manager: Rohitkumar K. Patel
Beacon Hill Import Co., Inc., Woodfin Terrace, Manager: Peter C. Brown

Haley’s Wine and Spirits, 116 Washington Street, Manager: John Kelley
DJ Colbert, Inc., d/b/a Shubie’s Liquor Store, 16 Atlantic Avenue
Manager: George H. Shube
D N Liquors Corp., d/b/a Village Liquors, 22 Bessom Street
Manager: Thanhtam T. Nyugen

Wine and Malt-Package Store license,
Crosby’s Market, 118 Washington Street, Manager: Theresa Clancy
Little Harbor Lobster Co., 3 Beacon Street, Laura O’Keefe
Bapa Convenience Inc., d/b/a Richdale of Marblehead, 29 Smith Street, Parth Patel

Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to renew the following Alcoholic Beverage Licenses subject
to all taxes and fees to the Town being paid, receipt of all applicable departmental
approvals, a valid Certificate of Inspection for 2021-2022, a Certificate of Occupancy as
appropriate and compliance with Chapter 304 of the Acts of 2004:

All-Alcoholic Common Victualler Licenses
Barnacle Corporation, 141 Front Street, Manager: Jay H. Sahagian
Café Italia of Marblehead, Inc., d/b/a Café Italia, 10 School Street
Manager: Donna Oliviero
Casa Mia, 261 Washington Street, Manager: Luigi Scalzi
Fen Yang Restaurant Inc., d/b/a Fen Yang House II, 40A Atlantic Avenue
Manager: Ling Qin Chen
Food at Five, LLC, d/b/a 5 Corners Kitchen, 2-4 School Street
Manager: Barry Edelman
257 Washington Street, d/b/a The Barrelman, 257- 259 Washington St.
Manager: Benjamin Newman
Zhu & Chen Inc., d/b/a/ Imperial Mandarin, Village Plaza I, Manager: Huabin Niu
Maddie’s Sail Loft Inc., d/b/a/ Maddies Sail Loft, 15 State Street, Manager: Loretta Lang
The New Marblehead Landing, d/b/a The Landing, 81 Front Street
Manager: Robert Simonelli
Rip Tide Lounge, 116 Pleasant Street, Manager: George A. Ciampa
Seaside Restaurant Group, LLC, d/b/a Three Cod Tavern, 141 Pleasant Street,
Manager: Minot Percy
JDHE d/b/a Amores Tequila Bar, 169 Pleasant Street, Manager, Jose Luis Sanchez
Tulemax, Inc., d/b/a Casa Corona, 33 Smith Street, Manager: Jose Brancamontes
Warwick Entertainment LLC, d/b/a The Beacon, 123 Pleasant Street
Manager: David Zion

Wine and Malt-W/ Cordials Common Victualler Licenses

Kitsen Table Inc., d/b/a Soall Bistro, 9 Bessom Street, Manager: Hoang Sa This Nguyen
Shin Dynasty, d/b/a Le Petit Comptoir, One Atlantic Avenue, Manager: Alexander Lewis
Junji’s, 114 Pleasant Street, Manager: Chittra Suksomboon
Thai Market Inc., d/b/a Thai Market, 26 Hawkes Street, Manager: Tom Kanchananaga
Nine Lives Group, Inc, d/b/a Sea Salt, 126 Washington Street, Manager: Scott Brankman

All Alcoholic Beverage Innholders License,
Peter Conway, d/b/a Harbor Light Inn, 58 Washington Street, Manager: Peter Conway

All-Alcoholic Club Licenses
Boston Yacht Club, One Front Street, Manager: Brian Pelland
Corinthian Yacht Club, 1 Nahant Street, Manager: David H. Titus
Tedesco Country Club, 154 Tedesco Street, Manager: Michael McGillicuddy
Eastern Yacht Club, 47 Foster Street, Manager: Jeff Wargo

All-Alcoholic Fraternal Club Licenses
Gerry #5 Veteran Fireman Association, Inc., 210 Beacon Street, Manager: Art Dodge
Header’s Club, Inc., 62 Pleasant Street, Manager: Dincer Ulutas

All-Alcoholic Veterans Club Licenses
Chaplain Lyman Rollins Post, d/b/a 2005 Veterans of Foreign War Inc.
321 West Shore Drive
Manager: Edward Preble

Farmer Series Pouring Permit
Marblehead Brewing Co., LLC, d/b/a Marblehead Brewing Co., 124 Pleasant Street
Manager: Tracy M. A. Stockton

Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to renew the following licenses subject to all taxes and fees
to the Town being paid and receipt of all applicable departmental approvals:

Carry-In Alcoholic Beverage License
Fresca’s Pizza and Pasta, 50 Atlantic Ave, Manager: Claudio Aruijo

The Little Store, 9 Green Street, Manager: Manuel Querubin
DJ Colbert Inc., d/b/a Shubies, 16 Atlantic Avenue, Manager: George Shube
B&B Fish, 195 Pleasant St, Manager: Jason Santos

Movie Theatre License
Warwick Entertainment LLC, 123 Pleasant Street, Managing Member: David Zion

Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. New Year’s Eve. Extended Business Hours. Motion made and
seconded to allow restaurants in the Town of Marblehead to remain open for business on
Saturday, January 1, 2022 until 1:00 a.m., at their discretion. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in
favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

OPEN MEETING LAW RESPONSE. Motion made and seconded to authorize Town
Counsel to send a formal response to Allen Waller and the Attorney General as it relates
to the Open Meeting Law Complaint of November 10, 2021 filed by Allen Waller.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Noonan. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

BELL SCHOOL. Contract. Gilbane Building Company. Change Order #11.
Motion to approve Gilbane Owner Change Order (OCO) #11 in the amount of sixty-nine
thousand five hundred and seventy-four and 07/100 dollars ($69,574.07) and authorize
the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Noonan.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

BELL SCHOOL. Contract. Leftfield, LLC. Amendment No. 3 – A&A Move
Management. Motion made and seconded to approve Amendment No.3 – A&A Move
Management, in the amount of fifteen thousand dollars and 00/100 ($15,000) and
authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs.
Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs.
Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

MARBLEHEAD MUSEUM. Letter of Support. Grant Application. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Charles Gessner, Marblehead Museum, to
write a letter in support of the Marblehead Museum’s grant application to the Mass
Cultural Council Facilities Fund to fund the first stage of the preservation and restoration
of the Brick Kitchen and Slave Quarters – next to the Lee Mansion. Moved by Mrs.
Noonan, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LEASE. Devereux Beach Concession Stand. Amend Assignment. Motion made and
seconded that the Board of Selectmen approve the request by the Lessee that in
accordance with section 21 of the Lease for the Devereux Concession Stand that the lease
be assigned from Neck Run Café, LLC to Brother’s Deli of Lynn Inc. effective
immediately, all other terms and conditions of the lease to remain in full force and effect.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Noonan. On a polled vote the Board voted as

follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

2020 RE-PRECINTING PLAN. Robin Michaud, Town Clerk, appeared before the
Board. Every 10 years the Town must reprecint in accordance with the Federal census.
The State draws the map for the Town. There were very few houses that changed and
any residents that will have a change of precint will be notifed in January by the Clerk’s
office. Motion made and seconded to accept, as presented by the Town Clerk, the 2020
Re-Precincting Plan for the Town of Marblehead. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs.
Noonan. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs.
Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Hotel Marblehead. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Alexandra Jaffe for a one-day liquor license on
Friday, December 17, 2021 from 7 :00 p.m. – 10:00 p.m. at Marblehead Inn, 264 Pleasant
Street for a wine tasting event led by Sip Wine Education, subject to the following
conditions:
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
     Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.
     Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Noonan. On a polled vote the Board voted
        as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
        Belf-Becker, in favor.

LEASE. Medical Office Builing. 1 Widger Road. Motion that the Town declare the
Medical Office Building Located at 1 Widger Road, that given the end of the lease in
2023, is not needed for municipal uses and is available for disposition subject to the
following restrictions: that the building be leased for office or medical center purposes
for a term no less than 5 years with 2, 10 year renewals at the option of the Town.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Noonan. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. All Alcoholic Beverage License. Application Process. Motion made
and seconded, consistent with the Selectmen’s policies, that the Board post legal notice
seeking all interested applicants for an All-Alcoholic Beverage License. Applications
may be found on line at www.abcc.gov and should be submitted to the Selectmen’s
office, Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street. Deadline to submit application is January 5,
2022. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Noonan. On a polled vote the Board voted
as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Bill’s Auto Clinic. Towing. Motion made and seconded to approve the
The License Agreement between the Town and Bill’s Auto Clinic, Salem, MA, as
presented, and to authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor. Moved by
Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liqour License. Marblehead Little Theatre. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Craig VanRemoortel for a one-day liquor
license on Friday, December 31, 2021 from 7:00 p.m. to Saturday, January 1, 2022 at
1:00 a.m. at Marblehead Little Theatre, 12 School Street for a New Year’s Eve Jam
Session, subject to the following conditions:
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
     Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.
     Alcohol will be purchased from Kappy’s Importing, Everett
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Noonan. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

CHRISTMAS TREE BURNING / REMOVAL. Christmas Trees will be picked up at
the curbside from Monday, December 27, 2021 through Friday, January 7, 2022 . Trees
picked up prior to January 6, 2022 will be placed at Riverhead Beach for the community
bonfire on Thursday, January 6, 2022. After January 7, 2022 residents should bring trees
to the town’s transfer station for proper disposal. All trees left curbside for pick up from
December 27, 2021 until January 7, 2022 must have all lights, ornaments, and stands
removed and not be in plastic bags. Any tree not meeting these requirements will not be
picked up. In addition, holiday wreaths, roping and garland will not be picked up.

LICENSING. A letter was received from Scott Brankham and Emily Farnsworth-
Brankman as it relates to applying for an all alcoholic beverage license.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:40 p.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mrs. Noonan. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Noonan, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

                                      Kyle A. Wiley
                                      Administrative Aide

List of documents used:
Letter from Sustainable Marblehead Town Trees and Urban Forestry
Letter from Sustainable Marblehead regarding Sustainability Director
License renewals votes
Draft response to OML complaint
Gilbane OCO no.11 change order
Leftfield Contract for Project Management Services – Amendment No 3
Marblehead Museum letter of support for grant
Brother’s Deli of Lynn, reassignment of Devereux Beach Concesssion Stand lease
Reprecincting Map 2020, boundary descriptions
1 day liquor – Alexandra Jaffe
Bills Auto Clinic, License Agreement
1 day liquor license – MLT
DPW tree removal letter
Sea Salt – request for full liquor license

