                               BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                        MINUTES

                                    September 22, 2021

Board met in session at 7:00 p.m. via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                 Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                    M. C. Moses Grader
                                       James E. Nye
                                     Erin M. Noonan
                                      Alexa J. Singer

                             Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of September 22, 2021 to order. The following roll call was
taken: Mrs. Noonan, present; Mrs. Singer, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye,
present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of August 5, 2021,
August 25, 2021, September 1, 2021 and September 8, 2021. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in
favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

FORT SEWALL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. Sign Request. Progress Report.
Rebecca Cutting, Town Planner, and Larry Sands, committee member, appeared before
the Board. Ms. Curran reviewed various signage that will be installed in and around the
Fort. The Committee recommended the Town install a “Do Not Enter, authorized
vehicles only” sign, for a 60-day trial period, just before and at the entrance to the Fort to
help alleviate any confusion to drivers. Neighboring residents have expressed support for
this. Motion made and seconded to install “Do Not Enter, authorized vehicles only”, for
a 60-day trial period, at the entrance to Fort Sewall. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye,
in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor. Larry
Sands advised the Board that there is a temporary sign at the entrance to the Fort which
lists all the donors to Fort Sewall and sets a deadline of November 15th to donate and get
your name on the plaque. Items that still need to be completed at the Fort included:
installation of replica cannon, planting trees to replace memorial trees, re-grading,
correcting drainage issues, installing entrance signs and park rules, resetting plaques, re-
sodding, new barrels and a bike rack, new benches outside restrooms, develop and
implement Summer Fort Ranger program, fabricate and install bronze plaque
acknowledging donors, install security cameras, install signs with fort historical timeline.

BUILDING COMMISSIONER. Appointment. John Albright appeared before the
Board. Motion made and seconded to appoint John Albright Building Commissioner for
the Town of Marblehead contingent on a start date to be negotiated between the Town
Administrator and John Albright. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

FINANCE COMMITTEE. Interviews. Appointments. The following applicants
appeared before the Board as it relates to serving on the Finance Committee: Christine
Boehning, Brendan Moss, Mike O’Neil, Terra Samuels and Molly Teets. Each applicant
was interviewed by the Board. Motion made and seconded to place all names into
nomination. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Nye, Molly Teets; Mr. Grader, Molly Teets; Mrs. Noonan, Molly
Teets; Mrs. Singer, Molly Teets; Mrs. Belf-Becker, Molly Teets. Molly Teets appointed
to the Finance Committee with a term to expire in June 2024.
On the 2nd round of polled voting the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, Terra
Samuels; Mr. Nye, Mike O’Neill; Mrs. Noonan, Christine Boehning; Mrs. Singer;
Christine Boehning; Mrs. Belf-Becker, Terra Samuels.
On the 3rd round of polled voting the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, Christine
Boehning; Mr. Grader, Mike O’Neill; Mrs. Singer, Christine Boehning; Mr. Nye, Mike
O’Neill; Mrs. Belf-Becker, Mike O’Neill. Mike O’Neill appointed to the Finance
Committee with a term to expire in June 2024.
On the 4th round of polled voting the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, Terra
Samuels; Mr. Grader, Terra Samuels; Mr. Nye, Terra Samuels; Mrs. Noonan, Christine
Boehning; Mrs. Belf-Becker, Terra Samuels. Terra Samuels appointed to the Finance
Committee with a term to expire in June 2022.

CONTRACT. Historic Properties Survey. Motion made and seconded to award the
contract for the Historic Properties Survey project to John D. Clemson of Winchester,
MA in the amount of forty thousand dollars ($40,000.00) and authorize the Chair to sign
the contract on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

BELL SCHOOL. Contract. Gilbane Building Company. Change Order #9.
Motion made and seconded to approve Gilbane Owner Change Order (OCO) #9 in the
amount of forty thousand five hundred and eighteen and 31/100 dollars ($40,518.31) and
authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. MSBA Budget Revision Request. Number 15. Motion made and
seconded to approve the Project Funding Budget Revision Request, Number 15, as
submitted, and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in

favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Community Center. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Christine Nuccio for a one-day liquor license on
Wednesday, October 6, 2021 from 5:00 p.m. – 7:30 p.m. at 10 Humphrey Street, for the
dedication of the Judy and Gene Jacobi Community Center subject to the following
conditions:
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.
     Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of G. L. c. 138.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

SPIRIT OF ’76. Permission to Use. Motion made and seconded to approve the request
from Grant Scott to use an image of the Spirit of ’76 in “Lynn Ward’s Wordless Novels,
1929-1937” and to credit the Town of Marblehead with the image and send a copy of the
publication for our files. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote
the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in
favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Eagle Scout Court of Honor. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Michal Golden, Troop 11 Assistant Scoutmaster, to
use Abbot Hall auditorium on Saturday, November 20, 2021 from 11:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m.
for an Eagle Scout Court of Honor subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees and receipt
of the required Certificate of Insurance and to waive the rental fee for this event. Moved
by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Marblehead Museum. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Amy Bucher, Discover Marblehead, for a one-day
liquor license on Saturday, October 2, 2021 from 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. at the Lee
Mansion, 161 Washington Street, for the 2nd annual Fall Fair subject to the following
conditions:
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
     Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.

Alcohol will be provided by Ipswich Brewery. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PERMISSION. Use of Public Way. Motion made and seconded to approve the request
from Bill Luster, Gerrymander LLC, to undertake 2 exploratory test pits for soil analysis
on a portion of the small park in front of the form Elbridge Gerry School Building subject
to approve from Police, Fire, DPW and Water & Sewer and receipt of the required
Certificate of Insurance naming the Town as additionally insured. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

BACK THE TRACK 5K. Revised Date. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Andy Ernst, Marblehead Track Association, to revise the previously
approved date to hold the Back the Track 5K to Sunday, October 24, 2021, subject to
approval from Police and Fire. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

GREEN MARBLEHEAD COMMITTEE. Appointment. Motion made and seconded
to appoint Alexa Singer to the Green Marblehead Committee. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Revise. Motion made and seconded to approve
the request from Lauren McCormack, Marblehead Museum, and Lynn Bryant,
Sustainable Marblehead, to waive the rental fee on the Board’s previous approval to use
Abbot Hall on Thursday, September 30, 2021. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONSERVATION COMMISSION. Resignation. Extend Deadline to Apply. A
letter was received from Mike Smith relating to his resignation from the Conservation
Commission. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of appreciation. Moved by
Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor. The Board extended the deadline to submit letters of interest to
serve on the Conservation Commission to Friday, October 15, 2021. Submit letters to the
Board of Selectmen, Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street, or email
wileyk@marbehead.org.

ARCHIVES ADVISORY COMMITTEE. Letter of Interest. A letter of interest was
received from Jonathan Lukens as it relates to serving on the Archives Advisory
Committee. Motion made and seconded to appoint Jonathan Lukens to the Archives

Advisory Committee. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor;
Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.
Mr. Lukens also submitted a letter of interest to serve on the Historical Commission.

Erin Noonan addressed the Board asking if there were opportunities for the Town to
support the community and local businesses by enhancing or supplementing events in
Town, working collaboratively with the organizations in Town that hold events
throughout the year. She also discussed an event she has been working to help organize
planned for this fall. The Board will consider suggestions brought forth to them and
continue to support all local businesses and organizations in Town.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 9:20 p.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

List of documents used:
John Albright, resume
Letter of interes/resumes:
Christine Boehning, Brendan Moss, Mike O’Neil, Terra Samuels, Molly Teets, Jonathan
Lukens
Gilbane Building Company, Change order #9
MSBA Budget revision request, Number 15
1 Day liquor request, Christine Nuccio
Spirit of ’76 permision to use. Grant Scott
Abbot Hall, permission to use. Troop 11
1 day liquor License. Marblehead Museum
Use of Public way for test pits. Gerrymander LLC
Back the Track, Andrew Ernst, revised date
Abbot Hall revise permission to use. Marblehead Museum

