                             BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES

                                  December 17, 2021

Board met in session at 1:30 p.m. via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     James E. Nye
                                   Erin M. Noonan
                                    Alexa J. Singer

                           Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of December 17, 2021 to order. The following roll call was
taken: Mrs. Noonan, present; Mrs. Singer, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
present.

FACIAL COVERINGS. The Board discussed the Board of Health’s recent
recommendation regarding facial coverings in public buildings. After discussion, motion
made and seconded to support the Board of Health’s strong recommendation that people
mask up when entering public buildings. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Noonan.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor;
Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PEACH HIGHLANDS. Sean McHugh, Peach Highland, appeared before the Board as
it relates to traffic safety and speeding vehicles on Peach Highlands. Mr. McHugh shared
his opinion with the Board that because the Town had removed the speed bump at the top
of the hill for the season more and more vehciles were speeding on Peach Highlands
attempting to “jump” the hill. He believes that something needs to be done to improve
safety on Peach Highlands. The Board of Selectmen recommended that Mr. McHugh
reach out to the Town Administrator to discuss his concerns and what options might exist
with the Police Chief and Highway Director.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 1:55 p.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mrs. Noonan. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Noonan, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.


                                    Jason Silva
                                    Town Administrator

List of documents used:



December 17, 2021                         144
