                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES

                                     June 29, 2021

Board met in session at 5:00 p.m. via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye
                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                     Alexa J. Singer
                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of June 29, 2021 to order. The following roll call was
taken: Mrs. Noonan, present; Mrs. Singer, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye,
present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

Motion made and seconded, pursuant to General Law Chapter 30A Section 21a(8), to
adjourn to Executive Session for the purpose of reviewing contract for new Police Chief.
Votes may be taken and if they are votes will be released at a time deemed appropriate by
counsel. The Board will reconvene in open session. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

Board adjourned to Executive Session at 5:05 p.m.
Board reconvened in open session at 5:25 p.m.

CONTRACT. Police Chief. Motion made and seconded to approve the contract for the
Police Chief, prepared by Town Counsel, as presented. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING. Motion made and seconded to approve
the Memorandum of Understanding between the Town and Police Chief Robert O.
Picariello, prepared by Counsel, as presented. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 5:30 p.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs.
Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

                                     Kyle A. Wiley, Administrative Aide

