                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                     July 28, 2021

Board met in session at 7:00 p.m. via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     James E. Nye
                                   Erin M. Noonan
                                    Alexa J. Singer

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of July 28, 2021 to order. The following roll call was
taken: Mrs. Noonan, present; Mrs. Singer, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye,
present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from July 14, 2021.
Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes
from July 23, 2021. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

STATEMENT. The Chair read a statement regarding the Town’s proactive approach to
anti-Semitism, hate crimes and discrimination by working diligently with various
organizations, boards and committees and residents of the Town. Recent acts of hate in
the Town will not be tolerated.

LICENSING. Public Hearing. Transfer of All Alcoholic Beverage License.
Common Victualler License. Alter Premises. Mai Tai Lounge LLC, 165 Pleasant
Street. Attorney Tom Egan, Counsel for applicant, and Amanda Breen, applicant,
appeared before the Board seeking permission to Transfer the All-Alcoholic beverage
License at 165 Pleasant Street and to Alter the Premises as currently described on the
License by reducing the current license premises to 2500 square feet. No one spoke
opposed or in favor of the applicant. The following votes were taken:
Common Victualler License. Motion made and seconded to approve the application for
a Common Victualler License from Mai Tai Lounge LLC, 165 Pleasant Street, Manager,
Amanda Breen. Hours of operation are Monday – Saturday 9:00 am – 12:00 midnight,
Sundays11:00 am – 12:00 midnight. seating capacity 58, subject to receipt of all
applicable inspection sign offs and all fees paid. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.

Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; r; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.
Transfer of Liquor License. Motion made and seconded to approve the transfer the All-
Alcoholic Beverage License from Zhu & Chan’s Inc. d/b/a Imperial Mandarin to Mai Tai
Lounge LLC, 165 Pleasant Street, Manager, Amanda Breen. Hours of operation are
Monday – Saturday 9:00 am – 12:00 midnight, Sundays 11:00 am – 12:00 midnight.
seating capacity 58, subject to approval from the ABCC, CORI and receipt of all
applicable inspection sign offs, all fees paid and TIPS, or equivalent, certification on file.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.
Alter Premises. Motion made and seconded to approve the application from Mai Tai
Lounge LLC, 165 Pleasant Street, to Alter the Premises as currently described on the All-
Alcoholic Beverage License by reducing the licensed premise to 2500 square feet, as
presented, subject to receipt of the required forms, fees and approval from ABCC and all
department sign offs. Seating capacity = 58. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor: Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

COMMUNITY HOST AGREEMENT. ARO Cannabis. Mark Schapparo, applicant,
and Phil Silverman, Counsel, appeared before the Board seeking the Boards approval to
authorize to the Town to enter into negotiations for a Host Community Agreement. A
power point presentation was given by the applicant. Motion made and seconded to
authorize Town Counsel and the Town Administrator to enter into negotiations for a Host
Community Agreement. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mrs. Noonan. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, opposed; Mr. Nye, opposed; Mrs. Noonan,
in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, opposed. Motion failed.

CONSERVATION COMMISSION. Interviews. Appointments. The following
applicants were interviewed for 2 vacancies on the Conservation Commission: Mark
Adams, Kate Melanson, Kristopher Meloa, David Oster and Christian Torstennson.
Motion made and seconded to place all applicants’ names in for nomination. Moved by
Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs.
Belf-Becker, Kate Melanson; Mr. Grader, Kate Melanson; Mr. Nye, Kate Melanson; Mrs.
Singer, Kate Melanson; Mr. Nye, Kate Melanson. Kate Melanson appointed to the
Conservation Commission with a term to expire in June 2023. On a 2nd polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mrs. Belf-Becker, David Oster; Mr. Grader, David Oster; Mr.
Nye, David Oster; Mrs. Singer, Christen Torstennson; Mrs. Noonan, David Oster. David
Oster appointed to the Conservation Commission with a term to expire in June 2022.

CULTURAL COUNCIL. Interviews. Appointments. The following applicants were
interviewed for vacancies on the Cultural Council: Aaron Liber, Jim Murphy and
Barbara Rosenberg. Motion made and seconded to place all applicants’ names into
nomination with the first vote for a 1 vacancy with a term ending in 2021 and 2 vacancies
with a term ending in 2024. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Belf-Becker, Barbara Rosenberg; Mr. Grader,

Barbara Rosenberg; Mr. Nye, Barbara Rosenberg; Mrs. Singer, Barbara Rosenberg; Mr.
Nye, Barbara Rosenberg. Barbara Rosenberg appointed to the Cultural Council with a
term to expire in June 2023. Mr. Murphy and Mr. Liber appointed to the Cultural
Council with terms ending in June 2024.

PERMISSION. HarborFest. State Street Landing. Melody Curran appeared before
the Board seeking permission to use State Street Landing on Sunday, August 29, 2021 for
HarborFest, an event highlighting local maritime vendors. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Melody Curran, HarborMoor, to use State Street Landing
parking lot on Sunday, August 29, 2021 from 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. to hold the
HarboFest Event subject to approval from Police, Fire, Harbormaster and final approval
from the Town Administrator, receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance and a police
detail. Access to the waterfront shall remain open at all times. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in
favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS. Division of Marine Fisheries.
Notification was received from the Division of Marine Fisheries of the areas currently
closed to harvest of all shellfish and carnivorous snails.

FIRE DEPARTMENT. Fire Lanes. Notification was received from Chief Gilliland
per Article 3 of the 2018 Annual Town Meeting regulating Fire Lanes, the following area
are designated Fire Lanes by the Fire Department:
Corinthian Lane, from #5 Corinthian Lane to beyond the driveway of # 14 Corinthian
Lane. Stamski Way, from the front of the driveway of #1 Stramski Way to the front of
the driveway of #9 Stramski Way. Stamski Way, the complete cul-de-sac at the end of
Stramski Way.

LETTERS OF INTEREST. The following letters of interest were received: Old and
Historic Districts Commission; Larry Schall and Tom McMahon and Allen Warren;
Design Review Board, Allen Warren; Zoning Board of Appeals, Allen Warren; Fair
Housing Committee, Scott Withiam; Finance Committee, Christine Boehning.

CONDOLENCE. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of condolence to the
family of former Selectmen Bill Purdin. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

OLD BURIAL HILL. OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISSION.
Deadline to apply. Motion made and accepted to accept letters of interest to serve on the
Old Burial Hill Committee and the Old and Historic Districts Commission until August
20, 2021 and to interview all applicants at the Boards next meeting on August 25, 2021.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:00 p.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs.
Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

                                    Kyle A. Wiley
                                    Administrative Aide

