                             BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES

                                    October 7, 2021

Board met in session at 7:00 p.m. via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     James E. Nye
                                   Erin M. Noonan
                                    Alexa J. Singer

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of October 7, 2021 to order. The following roll call was
taken: Mrs. Noonan, present; Mrs. Singer, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye,
present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of August 20, 2021 and
August 25, 2021. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor;
Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

DRAIN EASEMENT. 9 Treat Road. Attorney Robert McCann appeared before the
Board representing Joshua Henry Kline and Skylar Ariel Frisch, owners of 9 Treat Road,
seeking a relocation of easement on their property. Town Counsel, Zoning Board of
Appeals and DPW have all approved this relocation. Motion made and seconded to
approve the Relocation of Easement, 9 Treat Road, as presented, and authorize the Chair
to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

POLICE DEPARTMENT. Appointments. Motion made and seconded, on
recommendation of Chief King, to appoint Charles Christopher Sweeney and Robert
Owen Picariello Jr. as permanent full time police officers with the Town of Marblehead
effective November 1, 2021 if the candidates attend the Randolph Academy or effective
January 17, 2022 if the candidates attend the Reading Police Academy. Moved by Mr.
Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

PARKING RESTRICTIONS. Round House Road. Annual Clean up. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Rob Dever, Public Works Director, to


October 7, 2021                           110
temporarily make the entirety of the Railroad Right of Way known as Roundhouse Road,
from School Street through to Bessom Street, as well as upper Anderson Street from #10
Anderson through to Bessom Street a NO PARKING/TOW ZONE area for the
following dates:
        October 19, 2021 from the hours of 7:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m.
        Rain Date: October 20, 2021 from the hours of 7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
This is to facilitate the annual clean-up and repair of town property in this area. Moved
by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Abbot Hall Restoration. Motion made and seconded to award the
contract for Abbot Hall Restoration of Historic finishes to John Canning CO Ltd of
Cheshire, CT in the amount of one hundred and twenty-five thousand six hundred dollars
($125,600.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr.
Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Harbor Plan Consulting Services. Motion made and seconded to
award the contract for consulting services to develop a harbor plan to Innes Associates of
Byfield, MA in the amount of sixty-two thousand and 00/100 dollars ($62,000) and
authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Fort Sewall Renovation. Amend. Motion made and seconded to
amend the contract between the Town and Sciaba Construction, for the Fort Sewall
renovation project, by increasing the amount by fifty-nine thousand one hundred forty-
nine and 90/100 ($59,149.90) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

SURPLUS. Motion made and seconded to declare the following items surplus and no
longer needed for Municipal purpose so that it may be disposed of in accordance with the
Town’s policy on surplus equipment: 1 legal size file cabinet and 1 letter size file
cabinet. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted
as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Singer,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PARKING RESTRICTIONS. Pleasant Street. Motion made and seconded to approve
the request from Alex Brown, Nash and Brown Landscape, to block the parking in front
of 91 Pleasant Street for approximately 3 days to allow pedestrians to travel through
while work on the sidewalk is being completed. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.




October 7, 2021                            111
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PARKING RESTRICTIONS. Central Street. Motion made and seconded to approve
the request from Katie and Farouk Al-Shorofa to allow parking in front of 9 Central
Street on Saturday, November 13, 2021 from 5:00 p.m. – 7:30 p.m. for a video game
truck to park for a children’s birthday party subject to approval from Police and Fire.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LETTERS OF INTEREST. The Board received the following letters of interest and
will put on record: Task Force against Discrimination, Andria Rossi and Celia Sliney,
Student Representative; Council on Aging, Kim Crowley; Cultural Council, Lisa Seltzer.

APPRECIATION. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of thanks to Patrick
O’Donnell for his contribution to the Town and his recent lecture at Abbot Hall. Moved
by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

The Board congratulated the Chair on receiving “Person of the Year” award from the
Chamber of Commerce.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 7:27 p.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.



                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

List of documents used:
Drain Easement request. 9 Treat Road
Police Department letter re appointments
DPW request for annual clean up, Round house Road
List of Surplus items
Request to block parking. Nash and Brown Landscaping
Request to allow parking from Katie and Al-Shorofa. 9 Central Street
Letters of interest: Andria Rossi, Celia Sliney, Kim Crowley and Lisa Selzter




October 7, 2021                            112
