                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                    August 25, 2021

Board met in session at 7:00 p.m. via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye
                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                     Alexa J. Singer

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of August 25, 2021 to order. The following roll call was
taken: Mrs. Noonan, present; Mrs. Singer, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye,
present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISSION. Interviews. The Board
interviewed the following residents to serve on the Old & Historic Districts Commission:
Mariana Vaida, Tom McMahon, Paul Green and Allen Warren. The Board will interview
2 more applicants at their meeting on September 8, 2021 and make appointments.

OLD BURIAL HILL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. Interviews. Appointment.
The Board interviewed the following applicants to serve on the Old Burial Hill Oversight
Committee; Donald Doliber, Judy Gates and Alex Finnigan. Motion made and seconded
to place all names into nomination. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, Alex Finnegan; Mr. Grader, Donald
Doliber; Mr. Nye, Alex Finnegan; Mrs. Noonan, Alex Finnegan; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
Donald Doliber. Alex Finnegan appointed to the Old Burial Hill Oversight Committee
with a term to expire in June 2022.

OLD TOWN HOUSE. Permission to Use. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Whitney Haskell to use the Old Town House on April 30, 2022 from 2:00
p.m. – 6:00 p.m. for a Wedding Ceremony subject to the usual rules and regulations, fees
and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Motion made and seconded to approve the request
from John Hassett, on behalf of Marblehead Museum and Sustainable Marblehead, to use
Abbot Hall on Thursday, September 30, 2021 for a program/presentation by Patrick K.
O’Donnell, the author of “The Indispensables’” subject to the usual rules and regulations,



August 25, 2021                            92
fees and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded
by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

SURPLUS. Motion made and seconded to approve the request from Mark Souza,
Marblehead Harbormaster, to declare the following items as surplus and no longer
needed for Municipal purpose so that it may be disposed of in accordance with the
Town’s policy on surplus equipment: 2008 For F350 utility vehicle. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

CONSTABLES. Reappointments. Motion made and seconded to reappoint the
following Constables to serve Civil Service, subject to approval from Police Chief and
the required bond on file with the Town Clerk: Julio Carrasquillo and Cindy Diaz.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Marblehead Museum. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Lauren McCormack, Executive Director,
Marblehead Museum, for a one-day liquor license on Sunday, September 12, 2021, from
2:00 p.m. – 6:00 p.m. at 16 Washington Street for a garden party celebrating the 50th
Anniversary of the Marblehead Handprints company subject to the following conditions:
        Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
        Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
be purchased from an authorized source.
Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and disposal
of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the requirements of G. L. c.
138. Alcohol will be purchased from Kappy’s Importing. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded
by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Clifton Lutheran Church. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from rev. James Bixby, Clifton Lutheran Church, for
a one-day liquor license on Sunday, September 19, 2021, at 150 Humphrey, from 3:00 p.m. –
6:00 p.m. for a fundraiser event subject to the following conditions:
        Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
        Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
be purchased from an authorized source.
Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and disposal
of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the requirements of G. L. c.
138. Alcohol will be purchased from Merrimack Valley Distributing Co. Moved by Mr.
Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer,
in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.


August 25, 2021                             93
BELL SCHOOL. Contract. Gilbane Building Company. Change Order #8. Motion
made and seconded to approve Gilbane Owner Change Order (OCO) #8 in the amount of
eighty-seven thousand and fifty-nine dollars ($87,059.00) and authorize the Chair to sign
on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote
the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. MSBA Budget Revision Request. Number 14. Motion made and
seconded to approve the Project Funding Budget Revision Request, Number 14, as
submitted, and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

CONTRACT. Pavement Management. Motion made and seconded to award the
contract for Pavement Management Program to Environmental Partners in the amount of
twenty-nine thousand five hundred and 00/100 dollars ($29,500.00) and authorize the
Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Elm Street Drainage Project. Motion made and seconded to award the
contract for the Elm Street Drainage Improvement Project to N. Granese & Sons, Inc. of
Salem, MA for the base bid and alternate #1 in the amount of Five hundred sixty-seven
thousand nine hundred and sixty-two and 25/100 Dollars $567,962.25) and authorize the
Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Replica Cannon, Fort Sewall. Motion made and seconded to award the
contract for a replica cannon for Fort Sewall to South Bend Replicas of North Liberty,
Indiana in the amount of twenty-five thousand four hundred and sixty-two and 00/100
dollars and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board. Moved by
Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs.
Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

POLICE DEPARTMENT. Request for Hearing. Suspension. Motion made and
seconded to appoint Jason Silva, Town Administrator, hearing officer as it relates to a (5)
day suspension imposed on Officer Chris Gallo as is relates to his conduct on July 26,
2021 and to reports his findings back to the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.




August 25, 2021                             94
POLICE DEPARTMENT. Offers of Employment. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Chief King to offer conditional letters of employment to
Charles Christopher Sweeney and Robert Owen Picariello Jr. as permanent full time
police officers for the Town of Marblehead subject to successful completion of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts Physical Abilities Test; a complete physical
examination and psychological examination to be conducted by the Town’s physician
and a psychiatrist/psychologist of the Town’s choosing and authorize the Chair to sign on
behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor;
Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

DOLLARS FOR SCHOLARS. Fundraiser Walk. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Helaine Hazlett, fundraising chair, Dollars for Scholars, to hold
a fundraiser walk around Marblehead Neck on Saturday, October 16, 2021 subject to
approval from Recreation and Park, Police and Fire and receipt of the required Certificate
of Insurance. No permanent markings are to be made on the streets and any temporary
markings shall be removed at the conclusion of the event. Registration begins at 8:30
a.m. at Devereux Beach with a start time of 10:00 a.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

SURPLUS. Motion made and seconded to declare the following items as surplus and no
longer needed for Municipal purpose so that they may be disposed of in accordance with
the Town’s policy on surplus equipment:
     (5) 4x6 metal banquet tables
     (5) 4x8 metal banquet tables
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

FIRE DEPARTMENT. Resignation. A letter was received from Chief Gilliland
notifying the Board that Captain Elizabeth Wilson has retired from the Fire Department
effective July 25, 2021 as 32 years of dedicated service. Motion made and seconded to
send a letter of congratulations to Captain Wilson. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

COUNCIL ON AGING. Letter of Interest. A letter of interest was received from
Thomas Gawrys as it relates to serving on the Council on Aging.

CONSERVATION COMMISSION. Resignation. A letter of resignation was received
from Bill Colehower. Motion made and seconded to accept and send a letter of
appreciation. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.




August 25, 2021                            95
TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION. A letter of interest was received
from Anne Stevenson as it relates to serving on the Task Force Against Discrimination.

9/11 CEREMONY. On September 11, 2021 at 10:00 am at Memorial Park, the
Marblehead Fire Department and Police Department will join all public safety agencies
and community members across the country to commemorate the twentieth anniversary
of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. Local leaders and members of the
community are invited to participate and pay tribute to the 3000 lives lost on September
11, 2001.

EXECUTIVE SESSION. Motion to adjourn to Executive Session Moved by Mrs.
Singer, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs.
Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

The Board resumed in open session to revote Executive Session motion.

EXECUTIVE SESSION. Motion to adjourn to Executive Session under M.G.L. c. 30A,
Sec. 21 for the purpose of discussing pending litigation where the public discussion on
the same may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body,
votes may be taken, and if they are votes will be released at a time deemed appropriate by
counsel. The board will not reconvene in open session. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded
by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

The Board adjourned to Executive Session at 9:00 p.m.



                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

List of documents used:
Letter of Interest: Mariana Vaida, Tom McMahon, Paul Green, Allen Warren, Donald
Doliber, Judy Gates, Alex Finnigan, Thomas Gawrys, Anne Stevenson
Whitney Haskell letter, request to use Old Town House
John Hassett letter, request to use Abbot Hall
List of surplus items
Constable applications: Julio Carrasquillo, Cindy Diaz
Lauren McCormack letter for 1 day liquor license
James Bixby letter for 1 day liquor license
Gilbane Building Company Change Order #8
MSBA Budget Revision Request, Number 14
Votes: Pavement Management/N. Granese & Sons / South Bend Replicas
Police Chief King letter requesting suspension hearing
Police Chief King letter to Board of Selectmen requesting appointments



August 25, 2021                            96
Dollars for Scholars request to hold fundraising walk
List of Surplus items
Resignation letter from Fire Department
Resignation letter from Bill Colehower
Notice of 9/11 ceremony




August 25, 2021                            97
