                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                      May 12, 2021

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, May 12, 2021 to order. The following roll
call was taken: Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the following minutes: April 7,
2021, April 14, 2021, April 20, 2021 and April 22, 2021. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded
by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

FINANCE COMMITTEE. Interview. Appointment. Katrina Price appeared before
the Board as it related to serving on the Finance Committee. David Patten has withdrawn
his application. Motion made and seconded to appoint Katrina Price to the Finance
Committee with a term to expire in June 2023. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Pugmire Wedding. Motion made and seconded
to approve the request from Peyton Pugmire to use Abbot Hall for a wedding ceremony
on Saturday, September 18, 2021 subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees and required
Certificate of Insurance and adherence to all State and local COVID-19 requirements and
guidelines. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

SURPLUS EQUIPMENT. Motion made and seconded to declare the following items
as surplus and no longer needed for Municipal purpose so that it may be disposed of in
accordance with the Town’s policy on surplus equipment:
(1) 2 drawer file cabinet
(1) 4 drawer legal file cabinet
(1) index card file cabinet
(1) 4 drawer file cabinet
(1) metal desk
(2) wooden office desks
(6) sheets of metal shelving

(38) metal stacking chairs with padded seats/backs
(1) B&M wooden snow scoop
(3) office desks
(6) misc. chairs
(8) Granite radiator tops
Metal shelving
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. J. Marchese. Amend. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Robert Dever, Director of Public Works, to amend the contract between the
Town and J. Marchese for Accessible Ramps in the amount of twenty-nine thousand and
two hundred dollars and 00/100 and to authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PARKING RESTRICTIONS. Memorial Day. Motion made and seconded, on
recommendation from the Police Chief, in order to facilitate safety in and around
Memorial Day services on Monday, May 31, 2021, to restrict parking in the vicinity of
Memorial Park and temporarily restrict or redirect traffic flow if required along the
Parade route. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PERMISSION. 6th Annual Freedom Run. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Melissa Stern, Stepping Stones for Stella, to run the 6th Annual Freedom
Run on Sunday, June 20, 2021 from 8:00 am – 11;00 am subject to approval from Police
and Fire Chief, receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance, police details as
determined by the Chief and adherence to all state and local COVID-19 regulations and
guidelines in effect at that time. No permanent markings are allowed on the streets and
all temporary markings must be removed at the conclusion of the event. Moved by Mr.
Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISSION. Letter of Interest. A letter of
interest was received from Paul Pruett as it relates to serving on the Old and Historic
Districts Commission.

DIVISION OF MARINE FISHERIES. Closing of Shellfish Beds. In accordance with
MGL, Chapter 130, Sec. 74A, the Division or Marine Fisheries has determined that the
“Conditionally Approved” shellfish classification area, N21.2 Devereux and Tuckers
Beaches in the Town of Marblehead, no longer meets the established criteria for the
harvest of shellfish effective as of sunrise on Saturday, May 1, 2021 and is CLOSED TO
SHELLFISHING May 1, 2021 through September 30, 2021.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:20 a.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

                                    Kyle A. Wiley
                                    Administrative Aide

