                               BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                        MINUTES

                                   November 17, 2021

Board met in session at 7:00 p.m. via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye
                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                     Alexa J. Singer

                             Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of November 17, 2021 to order. The following roll call was
taken: Mrs. Noonan, present; Mrs. Singer, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye,
present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of August 5, 2021 and
November 2, 2021. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

BOARD OF ASSESSORS. Public Hearing. Classification Tax Allocation Fiscal
Year 2022. John Kelley, Assessor, and Karen Bertolino, Assistant Assessor, appeared
before the Board to provide information necessary for votes to be taken on the three
available exemptions and a vote to determine the FY2022 tax factor which determines
how taxes are allocated between property classes. Ms. Bertolino presented the 2022 total
valuation of the town which has received final certification from the Department of
Revenue (DOR) after meeting all DOR criteria and guidelines for development of fair
and equitable assessments throughout the Town of Marblehead. The Board voted as
follows:

Residential Exemption:
Classification allows the Board of Selectmen to grant an exemption of up to 20% of the
average assessed value of all Class One residential parcels, which are the principal
residences of the taxpayer. This particular exemption typically provides tax relief for full
time residents in vacation communities such as Nantucket or communities with a large
number of non-owner occupied properties. Motion made and seconded not to adopt the
residential exemption. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote
the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

Small Commercial Exemption:
Chapter 220, SS.112 and 187 of the Acts of 1993 provide for an exemption of up to 10%
of the assessed value for Commercial properties with an assessment of less than
$1,000,000 dollars and employing not more than ten people in the preceding calendar
year. This particular exemption benefits only the property owner, as the law does not
require the tax relief be passed through to the business owner. If adopted, this exemption
shifts the tax burden onto other Commercial and Industrial properties. Motion made and
seconded not to adopt the small commercial exemption. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded
by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

Open Space Discount:
Chapter 59 Section 2A allows for a maximum of 25% exemption for property classified
as Open Space. “Class Two, open space” is land which is not otherwise classified and
which is not taxable under the provisions of chapters 61, 61A, or 61B, or taxable under a
permanent conservation restriction, and which land is not held for the production of
income but is maintained in an open or natural condition, and which contributes
significantly to the benefit and enjoyment of the general public. The Board of Assessors
has determined that no property in Town meets the strict definition of open space.
Motion made and seconded not to adopt the open space discount. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in
favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

Chapter 369 of the Acts of 1982 requires the decision to shift the property tax burden
from one property class to another to be made by the Board of Selectmen, after a public
hearing. The statute provides a maximum allowable portion of the Tax Levy up to 150%
to be borne by Commercial, Industrial and Personal Property (CIP Class) and a minimum
allowable portion to be borne by the Residential Class. Motion made and seconded to
adopt a single rate factor of 1, all parcels to be levied at 100%. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in
favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

APPRECIATION. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of congratulations and
appreciation to Mike Tumulty on his recent retirement from the Town as Assistant
Assessor. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

APPOINTMENT. Town Accountant. Christopher Holak appeared before the Board.
MOTION made and seconded to appoint Christopher Thomas Holak Town Accountant
with a term to expire in June 2022. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor;
Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

GIFT TO THE TOWN. USS Marblehead Silver Service. Chris Johnston, Chairman,
Historical Commission and Michael Fuenfer appeared before the Board. Mr. Fuenfer
wished to present the Board of Selectmen with a silver service from the USS Marblehead,
built in 1924 and fought in WWII. Motion made and seconded to accept as a gift to the
Town the USS Marblehead silver service and place in the care and custody of the
Historical Commission and to send a letter of thanks to Michael Fuenfer for his donation.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PUBLIC ART PROJECT. Wishing Wall. Abbot Hall Upper Grounds. The Town
Administrator advised the Board that the Town received a $1000 grant from the Cultural
Council to create a “wishing wall”, providing a venue for the community to express
themselves and what their hopes, dreams and wishes are for the Town post-pandemic.
The project will be managed and implemented by Peyton Pugmire and the Public Art
Committee. The Wishing Wall will be installed at Abbot Hall at the end of November
for approximately 2 weeks. Motion made and seconded to approve the installation of the
public art project “Wishing Wall” on the upper grounds of Abbot Hall. Moved by Mr.
Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer,
in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

ICE RINK. Discussion. The Recreation and Parks Commission, Terry MacLaughlin,
MacLaughlin Management & Design and members of the former Ice Rink Committee
were present. The Town Administrator gave an overview of the work done by the Ice
Rink Committee, including outreach to the community via public meetings and on-line
surveys, to understand what type of rink the community wants and what is most feasible,
i.e. fully enclosed, outdoor, or partial covered rink. Under the terms of the Larz
Anderson Trust Fund both Recreation and Parks Commission and Board of Selectmen are
tasked with determining how the funds will be spent. Chip Osborne, Chairman,
Recreation and Parks Commission addressed the Board and stated he suggests a joint
working group between the Commission and Board of Selectmen to develop a plan for
the use of the Larz Anderson Trust Fund. Discussion on the Marblehead Ice Rink
Feasibility Study, prepared & conducted by MacLaughlin Management & Design,
followed with members of the represented committees, multiple residents and Terry
MacLaughlin answered questions. No votes were taken.

HOST COMMUNITY AGREEMENT. Seven Leaf Sisters. Kate Federoff, Special
Town Counsel, Angela Arena, Seven Leaf Sisters Inc., and Blake Mensing, Counsel,
appeared before the Board as it relates to a Host Community Agreement with the Town
and Seven Leaf Sister, Inc. Counsel reviewed the proposed Host Community Agreement
with the Board and all questions were answered. Motion made and seconded to approve
the Host Community Agreement between the Town and Seven Leaf Sisters, Inc., as
presented by Counsel. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote

the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

OPEN MEETING LAW COMPLAINT. Alex Castro, Special Town Counsel,
appeared before the Board as it relates to Open Meeting Law Complaint(s) of October 22,
2021 and November 1, 2021 filed by Allen Waller. Attorney Castro reviewed the
complaints with the Board. Motion made and seconded to authorize Town Counsel to
send a formal response to Allen Waller and the Attorney General as it relates to the Open
Meeting Law Complaint(s) of October 22, 2021 and November 1, 2021 filed by Allen
Waller. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted
as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Eagle Scout Court of Honor. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Andrew Barnett, Troop 79, BSA, to use Abbot Hall
on Sunday, January 9, 2022 from 3:00 – 7:00 pm for an Eagle Scout Court of Honor
subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees and receipt of the required Certificate of
Liability and to invite the Eagle Scout to a future Selectmen’s meeting to present his
Eagle Scout project. The rental fee is waived for this event. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in
favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

BELL SCHOOL. Contract. Gilbane Building Company. Change Order #10.
Motion made and seconded to approve Gilbane Owner Change Order (OCO) #10 in the
amount of fifty-one thousand and one hundred twenty-two and 00/100 dollars
($51,122.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in
favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

FILM REQUEST. Motion made and seconded to approve the request from Jeff
MacLean, New England Location, to film scenes for a National Grid commercial at 17
Sheldon Road on December 8-9, 2021 subject to approval from the Police Chief, a police
detail, receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance and notification given to all
neighbors in advance. Work shall not commence before 7:00 a.m. and shall be
completed by 10:00 p.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote
the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Woods Hole Group. Coastal Resilience Engineering Services.
Motion made and seconded to amend the contract for Coastal Resilience Engineering
Services with Woods Hole Group of Bourne, MA by increasing the contract amount by
six thousand dollars ($6000) and authorize the Chair to sign the amendment on behalf of
the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board

voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Collins Engineering. Coastal Resilience Engineering Services Motion
made and seconded to amend the contract for Coastal Resilience Engineering
Services with Collins Engineering of Portsmouth, NH by increasing the contract amount
by twenty thousand six hundred and sixty dollars ($20,660.00) and authorize the Chair to
sign the amendment on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. 50th Annual Christmas Walk. Tree Lighting.
Parade. Old Town House. Motion made and seconded to approve the request from
Amy Bucher, Marblehead Christmas Walk Committee, for the following events and
venues subject to approval from Police Chief and Fire Chief and the usual rules,
regulations, fees and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance, and to waive the
rental fee to use the Old Town House.
Annual Tree Lighting: Friday, December 3, 2021 at the National Grand Bank parking
lot. Event starts at 5:30 p.m., tree lighting at 7:00 p.m.
50th Annual Marblehead Christmas Walk Parade: Saturday, December 4, 2021. The
parade begins at 12:00 p.m. at the State Street Landing and continues onto Washington
Street and then onto Atlantic Avenue The parade route continues from the Police Station,
taking a right onto Gerry Street then a right onto Pleasant St. and will continue down
Pleasant St. by the Village Plaza and ending at the National Grand Bank parking lot.
Holiday Wreaths/Garland wraps and bows: Hang approximately 150 holiday wreaths
and garland wraps throughout the business districts starting the week of November 15,
2021 subject to approval from the Marblehead Municipal Light Department and receipt
of the required Certificate of Insurance. All decorations shall be removed by January 10,
2022.
Holiday Lighting: Turn on the holiday lights at the Old Town House and State Street
Landing by Friday, November 19, 2021.
Old Town House. Use of the Old Town House on December 4 – 5, 2021 for musical
performances. Hours to be determined.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PARKING RESTRICTIONS. Tree Lighting/Christmas Walk/Parade. Motion made
and seconded to approve the following parking regulations and traffic flow changes on
recommendation of the Police Chief:
Tree Lighting, December 3, 2021 - 7:00 p.m.
In the event of an overflow crowd that creates a public safety concern, the board
authorized the Chief of Police to close either Pleasant Street between School Street and
Spring Street or Essex Street between Atlantic Avenue and Pleasant Street. In either
case, traffic will be interrupted only if necessary.
Santa’s Arrival at Clark Landing, December 4, 2021 - at about 9:30 a.m.

The parking lot at Clark Landing to be closed in its entirety at 8:30 a.m. until such time as
it is safe to reopen.
Christmas Walk Parade December 4, 2021
Staging for the parade will be on Front Street between the Boston Yacht Club and State
Street (including Darling Street,) at about 10:30 a.m., then stepping off from Clark
Landing on a route including State Street, Washington Street, Atlantic Avenue, Gerry
Street and Pleasant Street. The closure of Front Street between Water Street and State
Street and Darling Street in its entirety from 10:00 a.m. until 12:30 p.m. All streets along
the parade route will be controlled by police officers as needed to facilitate the safe
passage of the parade.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

2022 ANNUAL TOWN MEETING. Warrant. Motion made and seconded that the
Annual Town meeting be held on Monday, May 2, 2022 at 7:00 p.m. at Marblehead
Veterans Middle School Auditorium, at Duncan Sleigh Square, 217 Pleasant Street.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to open the Warrant for the May 2, 2022 Annual Town
Meeting. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted
as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to close the Warrant for Town Government, Boards and
Commissions on Friday, January 21, 2022 at 12:00 noon. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded
by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to close the Warrant for the General Public on Friday,
January 28, 2022 at 12:00 noon. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor;
Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Bubble Bar Boston. Living Swell. 34
Atlantic Avenue. Motion made and seconded to approve the request from Maria
Tilkens, Bubble Bar Boston, for a one-day liquor license on Saturday, December 4, 2021
from 12:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. at 34 Atlantic Avenue, during the annual Christmas walk
subject to the following conditions:
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.

      Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of G. L. c. 138.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Bubble Bar Boston. Eat Well Kitchen. 12
Atlantic Avenue. Motion made and seconded to approve the request from Maria
Tilkens, Bubble Bar Boston, for a one-day liquor license on Thursday, December 9, 2021
from 6:30 p.m. – 9:00 p.m. at Eat Well Kitchen, 12 Atlantic Avenue, subject to the
following conditions:
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.
     Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of G. L. c. 138.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Bobrek Engineering & Construction. Elm Street Drainage Project.
Motion made and seconded to approve the contract between the Town and Bobrek
Engineering & Construction, LLC, for the Elm Street Drainage Improvements 2021 –
Construction Phase Engineering Services, in the amount of fifty-nine thousand and
00/100 dollars ($59,900.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Bobrek Engineering & Construction, LLC. MS4 Stormwater
Management Program. Motion made and seconded to approve the contract between the
Town and Bobrek Engineering & Construction, LLC, for the NPDES Small MS4
Stormwater Management Program – Year 4, in the amount of one hundred and thirty-five
thousand and five hundred dollars ($135,000.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on
behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Valley Communication Services. Video Conferencing. Motion made
and seconded to approve the contract between the Town and Valley Communication
Services for hardware and professional services for video conferencing at Mary A. Alley
Building and Abbot Hall in the amount not to exceed fifty thousand and 00/100 dollars
($50,000.00) and to authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr.
Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer,

in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Eternal Events. Motion made and seconded
to approve the request from Wilson Lautner, Eternal Events, 10 Tioga Way, for a one-day
liquor license on Saturday, November 27, 2021 from 7:00 p.m. – 11:45 p.m. at Eternal
Events, 10 Tioga Way, subject to the following conditions:
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
     Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be provided by Bent Water Brewery. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

RETIREMENT BOARD. Annual Report. The Board received a copy of the
Retirement Board’s annual 2022 budget as required by M.G.L. Chapter 32, Section 22,
Chapter 306 of the Acts of 1996.

TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION. Letter of Interest. A letter of
interest was received from Diane Gora as it relates to serving on the Task Force against
Discrimination. The Board will interview all applicants at a meeting on November 22,
2021.

HOLIDAY HOURS for Abbot Hall and Mary A. Alley Building. The following
hours will be observed at Abbot Hall and Mary A. Alley Building.
Thanksgiving:
Monday, November 22, 2021            8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
Tuesday, November 23, 2020           8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
Wednesday, November 24, 2021         8:00 a.m. – 2:30 p.m.
Thursday, November 25, 2021          CLOSED
Friday, November 26, 2021            CLOSED

Christmas and New Year’s
Monday, December 20, 2021            8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
Tuesday, December 21, 2021           8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
Wednesday, December 22, 2021         8:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m.
Thursday, December 23, 2021          8:00 a.m. – 12:30 p.m.
Friday, December 24, 2021            CLOSED

Monday, December 27, 2021            8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
Tuesday, December 28, 2021           8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
Wednesday, December 29, 2021         8:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m.
Thursday, December 30, 2021          8:00 a.m. – 12:30 p.m.

Friday, December 31, 2021            CLOSED

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:15 p.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

List of documents used:
Board of Assessors Report – FY2022
Resume Thomas Holak
Request for Wishing Well
Ice Rink Report
Draft letters from Counsel re: OML complaint
Troop 79 request for Abbot Hall
Gilbane Building Company, Change order #10
Request for filming, Sheldon Road
Chamber of Commerce, Christmas Walk, Tree Lighting, parade request
Police Chief, road closures, Christmas Walk/Parade
(2) one day liquor license. Bubble Bar Boston
1 day liquor license. Eternal Events
Retirement Board notification
Letter of Interest. Diane Gora. Task force against discrimination

