                               BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                        MINUTES

                                    February 24, 2021

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye

                             Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Friday, February 24, 2021 to order. The following roll
call was taken: Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from January 12, 2021,
January 27, 2021 and February 12, 2021. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor;
Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CULTURAL COUNCIL. Interviews. Appointments. Elizabeth Horowitz and Holly
Jaynes appeared before the Board as it relates to serving on the Marblehead Cultural
Council. Motion made and seconded to appoint Elisabeth Horowitz to the Marblehead
Cultural Council with a term to expire in June 2022. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor. Motion made and seconded to appoint
Holly Aloha Jaynes to the Marblehead Cultural Council with a term to expire in June
2023. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Festival of Arts. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from the Festival of Arts to use Abbot Hall for the 2021 Fourth of
July celebration July 1 – 5, 2021 subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees, and receipt
of the required Certificate of Insurance. Final approval by the Town Administrator is
required and adherence to all state and local COVID-19 guidelines and protocols in effect
at that time. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PROCLAMATION. Motion made and seconded to prepare a proclamation in honor of
Charlotte Ethel Tannheimer’s 100th Birthday. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.




February 24, 2021                           14
LEASE. Police Vehicle. Motion made and seconded to approve the lease with Republic
First National Corporation for one (1) 2021 Ford Police Interceptor and authorize the
Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. COA. Multipurpose Space. Motion made and seconded to award the
contract for the COA Outdoor Multipurpose Space to TB Equipment Corporation of
Boston, MA for in the amount of seventeen thousand six hundred and thirty dollars
($17,630.00) and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board. Moved
by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

RESERVE FUND TRANSFER. Labor Counsel. Motion made and seconded to
authorize Town Administrator Jason Silva to appear before the Finance Committee to
request the transfer of the sum of $40,000.00. from the Reserve Fund in accordance with
Chapter 40, Section 6 of the Massachusetts General Laws for Labor Counsel. Moved by
Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Festival of Arts. Artisans Fair. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from the Festival of Arts to use Abbot Hall for the
Artisans Marketplace for the following dates and times subject to the usual rules,
regulations, fees, and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance. Final approval by
the Town Administrator is required and adherence to all state and local COVID-19
guidelines and protocols in effect at that time.
Friday, December 3, 2021        6:00 pm – 9:00 pm
Saturday, December 4, 2021 7:00 am – 5:00 pm
Sunday, December 5, 2021 9:00 am- 5:00 pm
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

OLD TOWN HOUSE. Permission to Use. Festival of Arts. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from the Festival of Arts to use the Old Town House for
art exhibits during the 2021 Fourth of July celebration July 1 – 5, 2021 subject to the
usual rules, regulations, fees, and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance. Final
approval by the Town Administrator is required and adherence to all state and local
COVID-19 guidelines and protocols in effect at that time. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded
by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

POLICE CHIEF SCREENING COMMITTEE. Appointments. The Town
Administrator summarized the process and timeline, as outlined in Chapter 45, Article 1,
for appointing the next Police Chief. Motion made and seceded to appoint the following
individuals to the Police Chief Screening Committee, established December 9, 2020, and
in accordance with Chapter 45, Article 1:


February 24, 2021                           15
Jason Silva, Town Administrator
Michelle Cresta, Finance Director, School Department
Chief Jason Gilliland, Fire Department
Officer Dan Gagnon, or his designee, Police Department, Union President
Lisa Hooper, Director, Council on Aging
Henry Turner, citizen representative
Rhonda Gilberg, public safety representative
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LETTERS OF INTEREST. The following letters of interest were received by the
Board: Bonnie Grenier, Taxation Aid Committee; Cameron Staples, Finance Committee.
The Board will interview candidates for the Taxation Aid Committee at their meeting on
Wednesday, March 10, 2021. Deadline to submit letters of interest to serve on the
Finance Committee is April 9, 2021. Applicants will be interviewed at the Boards
meeting on Wednesday, April 14, 2021.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:30 a.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.



                                    Kyle A. Wiley
                                    Administrative Aide




February 24, 2021                         16
