                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                   February 12, 2021

Board met in session at 10:30 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Friday, February 12, 2021 to order. The following roll
call was taken: Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

FINANCIAL STATUS OF THE TOWN. FY21. Jason Silva, Town Administrator,
gave a presentation concerning the projected financial status of the town for FY22. The
Town is facing increased financial difficulties as FY21 progresses and planning for FY22
begins. The Town’s historical reliance on free cash to support the operating budget is no
longer sustainable. While the Town is currently in good financial health, difficult
decisions will need to be made for FY22 and beyond to ensure continued fiscal stability.
The Town will continue to take proactive steps to ensure future fiscal stability.

PUBLIC HEARING. Verizon New England Inc. Request, Pole Location.
Dartmouth Road. The Board reviewed the petition submitted by Verizon New England
Inc., seeking permission to locate poles, wires, cables and fixtures, including the
necessary anchors, guys and other such sustaining and protecting fixtures, along and
across the following public way or ways: DARTMOUTH ROAD: Place four (4) jointly
owned poles, P.304/15, P.304/16, and P.304/17 on the northwesterly side of Dartmouth
Road. The first pole, P.304/14 would be placed on the northeast corner of Dartmouth and
Cornell Roads and continue in a northeasterly direction to the end of Dartmouth Road.
Said poles to be erected substantially in accordance with the plan filed in the Selectmen’s
Office marked – VZ N.E. Inc. Plan No. 4AOMQ2L dated January 11, 2021. No one
spoke in favor or against the petition. Motion made and seconded to approve petition VZ
N.E. Inc. Plan No. 4AOMQ2L, dated January 11, 2021, from Verizon New England Inc.,
as presented, subject to Verizon hiring Police details as required by the Chief. Moved by
Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

FINANCE DIRECTOR. Appointment. /Contract. Stephen Poulos, 156 Eastern
Avenue, Essex, appeared before the Board as it relates to the Finance Director position.
Motion made and seconded to appoint Stephen Poulos Finance Director and to sign the
contract for employment as presented. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On

a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

APPOINTMENT. Local Inspector. Motion made and seconded to appoint Eric
Newman as Local Inspector with a term to expire in June 2021. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

REVOLVING FUND ACCOUNTS. Motion made and seconded to reauthorize the
following Revolving Fund Accounts for Fiscal Year 2022 in accordance with Mass
General Laws Chapter 44, Section 53E ½ in the amounts below:
Conservation Fines           $ 75,000
Storm Water Bylaw            $ 10,000
Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Town Administrator. Motion made and seconded to approve the
Contract for the Town Administrator as presented. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Appraisal Services. Village/Vine/Pleasant. Motion made and
seconded to award a contract for appraisal services for the Pleasant /Village/Vine Street
project to Greg Story of AM Appraisal Associates, Lexington, MA in the amount of
$37,500 (thirty-seven thousand and five hundred dollars) and authorize the Chair to sign
the contact on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Engineering Services. Motion made and seconded to award a contract
for engineering services to Bobrek Engineering of Danvers, MA for an amount not to
exceed twenty-four thousand dollars ($24,000) and authorize the Chair to sign the
contract on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

LETTERS OF INTEREST. The following letters of interest were submitted to the
Board:
Cultural Council: Holly Jaynes, Elisabeth Horowitz, Ann McGreevy
Conservation Commission: David Olsen
Old and Historic Districts Commission: Duncan Facey
Finance Committee: Dustin Floyd, David Patten

The Board will interview applicants for the Cultural Council at their next regular meeting
on February 24, 2021 at 10:00 a.m. All other applicants will be interviewed at a future
date to be determined.

CONDOLENCE. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of condolence to the
family of Michael Mentuck. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

Mr. Grader read a statement commending the School Committee on the naming the new
school the Lucretia & Joseph Brown Elementary School. Selectmen Grader noted the
importance of this event. Joseph Brown, a freed slave who fought in the American
Revolution, came to Marblehead where he met and married Lucretia, a free black woman.
Together they owned and operated Black Joe’s Tavern and created the famous Joe
Frogger cookies.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 11:30 a.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

                                    Kyle A. Wiley
                                    Administrative Aide

