                             BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES

                                   January 13, 2021

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                     David Depew
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     James E. Nye

                           Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, January 13, 2021 to order. The following
roll call was taken: Mr. Depew, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, present.

PUBLIC HEARING. Verizon New England. Pole Placement. Easement. 40-42
Baldwin Road. This public hearing was advertised in the Marblehead Reporter on
December 31, 2020. A Representative from Verizon New England appeared before the
Board. No one spoke in opposition or in favor of the petition for pole placement. Motion
made and seconded to approve petition marked Verizon N.E. Inc. No. 4AOMQ2L018-
1A2N8EP –from Verizon New England Inc., as presented, subject to Verizon hiring
Police details as required by the Chief. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor;
Mr. Depew, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.
Utility Easement. Motion made and seconded to approve the Utility Easement – 40-42
Baldwin Road, EWO# 4AOMQ21 between the Town and Verizon N.E. Inc. and
authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PUBLIC HEARING. Carry-In Alcoholic Beverage License. Outdoor Seating.
B&B Fish. 195 Pleasant Street. Jason Santos appeared before the Board as it relates to
the application for a Carry-In Alcoholic Beverage License at 195 Pleasant Street. Motion
made and seconded to approve the application from B&B Fish, 195 Pleasant Street,
Manager Jason Santos, for a Carry-in Alcoholic Beverage License (Beer & Wine) subject
to approval from Police Chief, receipt of the required forms, fees, departmental
approvals, CORI review and in accordance with all State Guidelines and COVID-19
Safety Protocols. Such permit shall expire on an approval from the ABCC for any future
transfer or application of a liquor license. A TIPS or BAT trained person must be on the
premises at all times that Carry-In is allowed. Hours of operation for Carry In are
Monday through Sunday 11:00 a.m. – 9:00 p.m. Seating Capacity, after current State and
Local State of Emergency ends = 16 inside/8 outside. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded

by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.
Outdoor Seating.
The Board reviewed the application from Jason Santos, B&B Fish, seeking permission
for outdoor seating. After review, motion made and seconded, pursuant to Executive
Order COVID-19, No. 35, issued by Governor Baker on June 1, 2020, and Order Making
Certain Phase III Adjustments (also known as COVID-19 Order No. 50) issued
September 10, 2020, which extends the period for outdoor table service by licensees 60
days past the end of the state of emergency, and notwithstanding the provisions of
Chapter 40A of the General Laws, or any special permit, variance or other approvals
thereunder, or any general or special law to the contrary, the Board of Selectmen for the
Town of Marblehead shall approve the application for outdoor seating submitted by
Jason Santos, B&B Fish, 195 Pleasant Street, provided that the operation remains in
substantial compliance with the documents, plans and statements on file with the Town ,
which documents are incorporated herein by reference and receipt of all required sign-
offs related to the Common Victualler License. This approval is freely revocable upon
the determination of the Health Department, Chief of Police, Board of Health, or their
designees that the operation of the outdoor dining area is negatively impacting public
health and safety and subject to any and all Executive Orders that may be issued by
Governor Baker and is subject to Final approval by the Town Administrator, Police and
Fire. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

PARKING REGULATIONS. Naugus Avenue/Johns Road. Stop Sign. Motion
made and seconded to approve, on recommendation of the Police Chief, the placement of
a Stop Sign at Johns Road at the intersection of Naugus Avenue. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PARKING REGULATIONS. Beach Street/Atlantic Avenue. Stop Sign. Motion
made and seconded to approve, on recommendation of the Police Chief, installation of a
Stop Sign on the two-way side of Beach Street where it intersects with Atlantic Avenue.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

SURPLUS EQUIPMENT. Motion made and seconded to declare the following items
as surplus and no longer needed for Municipal purpose so that it may be disposed of in
accordance with the Town’s policy on surplus equipment:
     2008 Trailer Mounted Solar Speed Monitor (Police Department)
     1 Metal file cabinet (Abbot Hall)
     1 wooden office desk (Abbot Hall)
     1 wooden office chair (Abbot Hall)
     1 cloth office chair (Abbot Hall)

Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

REQUEST. Digital Sign. Marblehead High School. Muffy Paquette appeared before
the Board. Motion made and seconded to approve the request from Muffy Paquette,
Marblehead Boosters, to install a digital sign at the entrance to Marblehead High School
on the corner by the Community Center, approximately 4 ft wide by 21 inches tall.
Funding for the sign will provided by the class of 2020 and the Marblehead Boosters
subject to review and final approval by the Town Administrator. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. Common Victualler License. Plus Cafe. 34A Atlantic Avenue. Klevis
Qyrasi appeared before the Board seeking a Common Victualler license. Motion made
and seconded to approve the application from Klevis Qvrasi, for a Common Victualler
License for Plus Cafe, 34A Atlantic Avenue, subject to receipt of the required fees, forms
and department sign offs. Hours of operation Monday through Friday 6:00 am – 5:00 pm
, Saturday and Sunday 7:00 am – 3:00 pm. Seating capacity is 20. The business shall
run in accordance with all State and Local Guidelines and COVID-19 Safety Protocols
that are currently in effect. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Depew, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

REGIONAL STATEMENT ON COVID 19. Motion made and seconded to approve,
nunc pro tunc, the joint statement from North Shore Municipal Leaders and Public Health
Officials, as presented, and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by
Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSE AGREEMENT. 8 Darling Street. Motion made and seconded to approve
the License Agreement, as presented, between the Town and Orrel Hansen and Peggy
Hansen, for Private Connection to Town Drainage System at 8 Darling Street, subject to
receipt of the required forms and fees, and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the
Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted
as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

BELLS. Washington’s Birthday. Motion made and seconded that the bells of Abbot
Hall and all the churches in Marblehead be rung on Washington’s Birthday, Monday,
February 22, 2021 at the usual holiday hours from 7:30 a.m. to 8:00 a.m.; 12 noon to
12:30 p.m.; 6:00 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. as has been the custom in the past. Moved by Mr.
Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Depew, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

FAIR HOUSING. Notification was received from Karl Renney that he will not seek
reappointment to the Fair Housing Committee when his term expires in May.

CULTURAL COUNCIL. Letter of Interest. The Board received a letter of interest
from Jennifer Uhl to serve on the Cultural Council. The Board set a deadline of January
22, 2021 for anyone to submit a letter of interest. All applicants will be interviewed by
the Board at their meeting on January 27, 2021.

EXECUTIVE SESSION. Motion made and seconded to go into Executive Session for
the purposes of contract negotiations where the public discussion on the same may have a
detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body, votes may be taken, and
if they are votes will be released at a time deemed appropriate by Counsel. The Board
will not reconvene in open session. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Depew. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Depew, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

The Board adjourned to Executive Session at 10:32 a.m.

                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

