                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                     August 5, 2021

Board met in session at 7:00 p.m. via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye
                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                     Alexa J. Singer
                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of August 5, 2021 to order. The following roll call was
taken: Mrs. Noonan, present; Mrs. Singer, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye,
present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

POLICE DEPARTMENT. Investigative Report. The Town engaged the services of
Law Enforcement and Development Strategies, LLC (LEADS), to investigate an incident
involving members of the Police Department that took place in the Town on or around
the first week of July 2019. The matter to be investigated involved two Marblehead
Police Officers, one who scratched a swastika on the other officers’ personal vehicle that
was parked near police headquarters. Terence M. Delahanty, Esq. LEADS LLC,
appeared before the Board to present the findings of the Investigative Report and to make
recommendations moving forward to include; workplace harassment and discrimination
training, community meetings with representative members of the Jewish Community,
updating rules and regulations to include language that gives clear understanding of what
is prohibited, clarify Rule 13.5 Report of Rule Violation and others. The Board, as well
as community members, commented on the report and asked questions.

REQUEST. Motion made and seconded to invite the Task Force against Discrimination
to a Selectmen’s’ Meeting to report on their work. Moved by Mrs. Noonan, seconded by
Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr.
Nye, opposed; Mrs. Noonan, in favor: Mr. Grader, opposed; Mrs. Belf-Becker, opposed.
Helaine Hazlett, Chair, Task Force against Discrimination addressed the Board and said
the Task Force has not met during the summer months and therefore would not have any
update for them and that the Task Force could come before the Board after they
reconvene in the fall.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:00 p.m. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by
Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs.
Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.



August 5, 2021                             90
                            Kyle A. Wiley
                            Administrative Aide


List of documents used:
Marblehead Police Department Investigative Report




August 5, 2021                           91
