                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES

                                  November 22, 2021

Board met in session at 7:15 p.m. via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     James E. Nye
                                   Erin M. Noonan
                                    Alexa J. Singer

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of November 22, 2021 to order. The following roll call was
taken: Mrs. Noonan, present; Mrs. Singer, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye,
present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISION. Appeal. 2 Dock Ledge Way.
Suanne and Brian Fin appeared before the Board to appeal the Septembr 21, 2021
decision of the OHDC to deny the application for a Certificate of Appropriateness to
replace windows. Charles Hibbard, Chairman, Old & Historic Districts Commission was
present. The Chair called the hearing to order. The appellants received notification of
this hearing. All parties were sworn in by the Chair. Applelants made presentation to the
Board to appeal the decision of the OHDC. A representative from Anderson Windows
was present and spoke to the Board as well. Charles Hibbard defended the Commissions
decision to deny a certificate of appropriateness and reviewed with the Board the rules
and regulations of the Commission and the guidelines for Alterations to existing
buildings as well as the Town of Marblehead Bylaws related to. The Board asked
questions of the appellants and the Commission. After discussion the appellants stated
they would like to withdraw their appeal to the Board and they will work with the
Commission to find appropriate windows that are allowed in the District.

OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISSION. Appeal. 63 – 69 Front Street.
Betty Brewhaus appeared before the Board to appeal the September 21, 2021 decision of
the OHDC to not approve the request to install a post clock. Charles Hibbard, Chairman,
Old & Historic Districts Commission was present. The Chair called the hearing to order.
The appellants received notification of this hearing. All parties were sworn in by the
Chair. Applelant made presentation to the Board to appeal the decision of the OHDC.
Karla Pascal, representative for appellant, was present and spoke to the Board as well.
Charles Hibbard defended the Commissions decision to deny a certificate of
appropriateness and reviewed with the Board the rules and regulations of the Commission
and the guidelines for Alterations to existing buildings as well as the Town of



November 22, 2021                         130
Marblehead Bylaws related to. The Board asked questions of the appellants and the
Commission. After discussion motion made and seconded to either deny the request of
Betty Breuhaus and uphold the Commission Determination or approve the request of
Betty Breuhaus and overturn the determination of the Commission and allow the
installation of the post clock. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled
vote the Board as follows: Mrs. Singer, uphold the Commission’s determination; Mrs.
Noonan, uphold the Commission’s determination; Mr. Nye, uphold the Commission’s
determination; Mr. Grader, uphold the Commission’s determination; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
uphold the Commission’s determination. The appeal from Betty Breuhaus is denied.

AFORDABLE HOUSING TRUST FUND. Interviews. Appointments. The
following applicants appeared before the Board as it relates to serving on the Affordable
Housing Trust Fund: Dirk Isbrandtsen and Christy Staples. Motion made and seconded
to appoint Dirk Isbrandtsen to the Affordable Housing Trust Fund with a term to expire
in June 2022. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor. Motion made and seconded to appoint
Christy Staples to the Affordable Housing Trust Fund with a term to expire in June 2022.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

MARBLEHEAD HOUSING AUTHORITY TENANT REPRESENTATIVE.
Interviews. Appointment. The following applicants appeared before the Board as it
relates to serving on Marblehead Housing Authority, Tenant Representative. Motion
made and seconded to place both names into nomination. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded
by Mrs. Noonan. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, Heather
Fitzgerald; Mrs. Noonan, Heather Fitzgerald; Mr. Grader, Heather Fitzgerald; Mr. Nye,
Heather Fitzgerald; Mrs. Belf-Becker, Richard Molumbre. Heather Fitzgerald appointed
to the Housing Authority, Tenant Representative, with a term to expire in June 2022.

Mrs. Singer left the meeting.

TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRMINATION. Interviews. Appointment. The
following applicants appeared before the Board as it relates to serving on the Task Force
against Discrimination: Diane Gora and Anne Stevenson. Motion made and seconded to
place both names into nomination. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, Anne Stevenson; Mr. Nye, Diane
Gora; Mr. Grader, Diane Gora; Mrs. Belf-Becker, Diane Gora. Diane Gora appointed to
the Task Force against Discrimination with a term to expire in June 2022.
Task Force against Discrimination. Student Representative. Motion made and
seconded to appoint Celia Sliney to the Task Force against Discrimination, Student
Representative, with a term to expire in June 2022. Moved by Mrs. Noonan, seconded by
Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Nye,
in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.




November 22, 2021                         131
ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Festival of Arts. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Rosanna Steinig, Festival of Arts, to display 5 ice sculptures on
the upper grounds of Abbot Hall during the Artisans Marketplace subject to receipt of the
required Certificate of Insurance. Moved by Mrs. Noonan, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

OLD TOWN HOUSE. Permission to Use. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Chris Johnston, Historical Commission, to use Old Town House to display
the third exhibit of the Museum of Marblehead series – Mapping Marblehead: The
Twentieth Century July 2022 – October 2022 subject to the usual rules and regulations.
Exact dates to be coordinated with Town Administrator. Moved by Mrs. Noonan,
seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Noonan, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 9:30 p.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mrs. Noonan. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Noonan, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.




                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

List of documents used:
Appeal packet – 2 Dock Ledge Way, Suzanne and Brian Fin
Appeal packet 63-69 Front Street, Betty Breuhaus
Letters of Interest/resumes: Dirk Isbrandsten, Christy Staples, Heather Fitzgerald,
Richard Molumbre, Diane Gora, Anne Stevenson, Celia Sliney
Request from Festival of Arts for Abbot Hall
Request from Historical Commission to use Old Town House




November 22, 2021                          132
