                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                      April 28, 2021

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye

                             Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, April 28, 2021 to order. The following roll
call was taken: Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

SPIRIT OF ’76. Permission to Use. Abeka Book Inc. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Abeka Book, Inc. to use an image of the Spirit of ’76 in the
following textbook: “America, Land I Love” and to credit the Town of Marblehead for
the image. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

ABBOT HALL. Bell Ringing. National Prayer Day. Motion made and seconded, to
approve the request from Donald Orne, Chairman-Marblehead Peace Committee to ring
Abbot Hall bells at noon on Thursday, May 6, 2021 for 5 minutes directly following the
noon regular ringing in honor of National Prayer Day and have a short prayer session in
front of the Spirit of ’76 immediately following, subject to following all State and local
COVID-10 guidelines and safety requirements. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PARKING RESTRICTIONS. Round House Road. Annual Clean up. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Rob Dever, Public Works Director, to
temporarily make the entirety of the Railroad Right of Way known as Roundhouse Road,
from School Street through to Bessom Street, as well as upper Anderson Street from #10
Anderson through to Bessom Street a NO PARKING/TOW ZONE area for the
following dates:
        May 13, 2021 from the hours of 7:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m.
        Rain Date: May 14, 2021 from the hours of 7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
This is to facilitate the annual clean-up and repair of town property in this area. Moved
by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.




April 28, 2021                              39
CONTRACT. Gilbane. Owner Change Order, Gerry School. Motion made and
seconded to approve Owner Change Order (OCO) #4, as submitted, in the amount of
$35,881.43, and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Gilbane. Owner Change Order, Gerry School. Motion made and
seconded to approve Owner Change Order (OCO) #5, as submitted, in the amount of
$36,752.00, and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Mosaics at Lucretia and Joseph Brown School. Motion to approve the
contract between the Town and Mosaic Artist Team for the Lucretia and Joseph Brown
Elementary School as submitted, for design, production and installation of two mosaic
artwork murals at the new Lucretia and Joseph Brown Elementary School, 42 Baldwin
Road, in the amount of One hundred sixty-seven thousand one hundred dollars and
00/100 ($167,100.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by
Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

AFFORDABLE HOUSING TRUST. Letter of Interest. A letter of interest was
received from Dirk Isbrandtsen as it relates to serving on the Affordable Housing Trust.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:20 a.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.



                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide




April 28, 2021                             40
