                               BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                        MINUTES

                                    September 1, 2021

Board met in session at 3:00 p.m. via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                 Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                    M. C. Moses Grader
                                       James E. Nye
                                     Erin M. Noonan
                                      Alexa J. Singer

                             Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of September 1, 2021 to order. The following roll call was
taken: Mrs. Noonan, present; Mrs. Singer, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye,
present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Marblehead Arts Association. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from Patricia Baker, Executive Director,
Marblehead Arts Association, for a one-day liquor license on Thursday, September 1, 2021,
at 8 Hooper Street from 6:30 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. for a jazz concert fund raiser subject to the
following conditions:
       Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
       Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
be purchased from an authorized source.
       Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the requirements of
G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from MS Walker of Somerville. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Ms. Noonan, in
favor; Ms. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor, Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf Becker, in
favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 3:07 p.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Ms. Noonan, in favor; Ms. Singer,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor, Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf Becker, in favor.

                                      Kyle A. Wiley, Administrative Aide

List of Documents used:
Request for 1 day liquor license. Marblehead Arts

