                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                     April 22, 2021

Board met in session at 10:30 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Thursday, April 22, 2021 to order. The following roll
call was taken: Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

FINANCE COMMITTEE. Interviews. Appointments. Katrina Price appeared
before the Board to regretfully withdraw her application for the Finance Committee due
to previous commitments. Dustin Floyd withdrew his application prior to the meeting.
There are currently 3 vacancies on the Finance Committee. The Board will seek to
appoint 2 applicants today and accept applications until May 7, 2021 for the remaining
vacancy. Letter of interest and resume should be sent to Board of Selectmen, Abbot Hall,
188 Washington Street or email wileyk@marblehead.org.

Motion made and seconded to place the 3 applicants names into nomination: David
Patten, Timothy Shotmeyer and Cam Staples. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. The Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, Mr. Staples/Mr. Shotmeyer; Mr. Nye,
Mr. Staples/Mrs. Shotmeyer; Mrs. Belf-Becker, Mr. Staples/ Mr. Shotmeyer. Mr. Staples
and Mr. Shotmeyer are appointed to the Finance Committee.

CONTRACT. Operational Audit. Motion made and seconded to award a contract for
an operational audit to Clifton Larson Associates of Lexington, MA in an amount not to
exceed fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of
the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONTRACT. Professional Services. Motion made and seconded to award a contract
for Professional services with Cash, general ledger and bank reconciliations to Clifton
Larson Associates of Lexington, MA in an amount not to exceed twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by
Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.




April 22, 2021                             37
Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:45 a.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.



                                    Kyle A. Wiley
                                    Administrative Aide




April 22, 2021                            38
