                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                      June 9, 2021

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, June 9, 2021 to order. The following roll
call was taken: Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes from May 26, 2021.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PUBLIC HEARING. Verizon New England Inc. Conduits. Dartmouth Road. Bill
Wallace, Verizon, appeared before the Board to review the petition submitted by Verizon
New England Inc. to lay and maintain underground conduits and manholes, with the wires and
cables and other such necessary sustaining and protecting fixtures, along and across the
following public way or ways: -
DARTMOUTH ROAD: Place one (1) new four-inch (4”) conduit ±533’. Beginning at
existing Pole, P304/12, located on the easterly side of Cornell Road, thence extending in
a northwesterly direction ±133’onto Dartmouth Road, changing to a northeasterly
direction along Dartmouth Road ±400’ to private property line of 40-42 Baldwin Road.
No one spoke in favor or against the petition. Motion made and seconded to approve
petition VZ N.E. Inc. Plan No. 4AOMQ2L from Verizon New England Inc., as presented,
subject to Verizon hiring Police details as required by the Police Chief., said conduit to
be placed substantially in accordance with the plan filed herewith marked – Verizon N.E.
Inc., No. 4A0MQ2L, dated May 21 2021, and permission to lay and maintain
underground laterals, cables and wires in the above or intersecting public ways for the
purpose of making connections with such poles and buildings as each of said petitioners
may desire for distributing purposes. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. Warwick Entertainment LLC. Change of d/b/a. David Zion,
manager, Warwick Entertainment LLC, appeared before the Board to change the d/b/a on
the current all alcoholic beverage license held by Warwick Entertainment LLC. Motion
made and seconded to approve the application from Warwick Entertainment LLC, 123
Pleasant Street, to change the DBA from WICKS to The Beacon subject to receipt of all



June 9, 2021                               55
applicable documents, fees and approval from the ABCC. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded
by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. Common Victualler. Sea Salt Ice Cream. Lisa Wiesman appeared on
behalf of Scott Brankman seeking a common victualler license. Motion made and
seconded to approve the application as submitted for a Common Victualler License for
Scoop by Sea Salt, 118 Washington Street, Suite #3, manager Scott Brankman, subject to
receipt of all applicable forms and fees. Hours of Operation Sunday – Saturday, 12:00
noon – 10:00 p.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in
favor.

SEVEN LEAF SISTERS. Presentation. Angela Arena Foster, founder, Seven Leaf
Sister, Blake Mensina, Counsel and Rebecca McKernan, Director of Wellness, appeared
before the Board to present an application to locate an adult use Marijuana Retail &
Product Manufacturing establishment in the Town of Marblehead at 365 Atlantic
Avenue. In accordance with state requirements, Seven Leaf Sisters hosted a virtual
Community Outreach Meeting on May 21, 2021, to allow the public to learn about their
proposal, ask questions and offer feedback. The next step in the approval process is for
the Town to enter into a Host Community Agreement with Seven Leaf Sisters. Before
the Board of Selectmen consider this request, and to ensure residents have ample
opportunity to provide input, the Board of Selectmen will open a 30-day comment period
on the proposal from Seven Leaf Sisters. You can view the presentation that Seven Leaf
Sisters provided to the Board of Selectmen at www.marblehead.org. If you would like to
offer any feedback on the Seven Leaf Sisters proposal, please email Kyle Wiley in the
Selectmen’s Office at wileyk@marblehead.org. The comment period will be open until
Friday, July 9, 2021.

OLD & HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISSION. Interviews. Appointments. The
following applicants appeared before the Board; Duncan Facey and Paul Pruett. There
are currently 2 vacancies on the Commission, 1 full member, 1 alternate member.
Motion made and seconded to place both applicants name into nomination for the full-
time member. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Nye, Paul Pruett; Mr. Grader, Paul Pruett; Mrs. Belf-Becker, Paul
Pruett. Paul Pruett appointed to the Old and Historic Districts Commission, full time
member, with a term to expire in June 2021. Motion made and seconded to appoint
Duncan Facey to the Old and Historic Districts Commission, alternat member, with a
term to expire in June 2021. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS. Interviews. Appointment. Bruce Durkee and
William Rudolph appeared before the Board. Motion made and seconded to place both
names into nomination for the Zoning Board of Appeals, alternate member. Moved by
Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.



June 9, 2021                               56
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, Bruce Durkee; Mr. Grader, William Rudolph; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, William Rudolph. William Rudolph appointed to the Zoning Board of
Appeals, alternate member with a term to expire in June 2021.

MSBA. Project Funding Agreement. Amendment. Motion made and seconded to
approve the Amendment, and exhibit A, to the Project Funding Agreement between the
Town and the Mass School Building Authority, as presented, and authorize the Chair to
sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

BELL SCHOOL. Gilbane Building Company. Change Order #6. Motion made and
seconded to approve Gilbane Owner Change Order (OCO) #6 in the amount of thirty-
nine thousand and nine hundred dollars ($39,900.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on
behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in
favor.

SURPLUS EQUIPMENT. Motion made and seconded to declare the following items
as surplus and no longer needed for Municipal purpose so that it may be disposed of in
accordance with the Town’s policy on surplus equipment:
     Ten (10) spools of municipal fire alarm wire
     One Cable Reel Trailer
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Motion made and seconded to approve the request
from Michael Hoffman to use Abbot Hall on Saturday, June 19, 2021 from 12:00 – 2:00
pm subject to the usual rules and regulations and to prepare a proclamation in honor of
Sidney Rose’s 100th Birthday. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

CONSERVATION COMMISSION. Letter of Interest. A letter of interest was
received from Mark Adams as it relates to serving on the Conservation Commission.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:50 a.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.



                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide




June 9, 2021                               57
