                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                   January 27, 2021

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing:

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     James E. Nye

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, January 27, 2021 to order. The following
roll call was taken: Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

LEAD MILLS. Pump Track. Pat Milner, Bike Marblehead, appeared before the Board
with a draft proposal asking for the Town to allocate dedicated off-road space for biking
via a pump track and a bike park. The proposal comes in response to the recent
dismantling of bike jumps from Lead Mills by the Conservation Commission. The
proposed sites for use are Lead Mills, Green Street Woods and Wyman Woods all of
which Bike Marblehead propose meets the passive recreation definition which is that
“recreational activities do not require prepared facilities and place minimal stress on a
site’s resources.” Many residents spoke in favor of the proposal while some residents
expressed concern for the use on conservation land. Chair Belf-Becker stated that Lead
Mills is under the jurisdiction of the Conservation Commission and if they deem the
property not suitable for a pump track the Board will convene a group of interested
individuals to seek alternate sites for a pump track. Mr. Nye and Mr. Grader stated their
support for the Chair’s proposal.

LICENSING. Gerry #5 Veterans Fireman Association, Inc. Change of
Officers/Directors. Arthur Dodge, 8 Franklin Street, appeared before the Board as it
relates to an application from the Gerry #5 Veterans Fireman Association, Inc., 210
Beacon Street, to change the Officers/Directors on the All-Alcoholic Beverage Club
License. Motion made and seconded to approve the application as submitted by the
Gerry #5 Veterans Fireman Association, Inc., 210 Beacon Street, to change the
Officers/Directors on the All-Alcoholic Beverage Club License subject to receipt of the
required forms, fees and approval from the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission
(ABCC). Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

APPOINTMENT. Treasurer/Tax Collector. Michael Carritte appeared before the
Board as it relates to appointment as Treasurer/Tax Collector. Motion made and
seconded to appoint Michael Carritte as Treasure/Tax Collector, with a term to expire in




January 27, 2021                            7
June 2021. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

APPOINTMENT. Cultural Council. Jennifer Uhl appeared before the Board as it
relates to serving on the Cultural Council. Motion made and seconded to appoint
Jennifer Uhl to the Marblehead Cultural Council with a term to expire in June 2023.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

LEASE. Samuel Hobbs Memorial Building. Motion made and seconded to lease the
Samuel Hobbs Memorial Building at 66 Clifton Ave to Marblehead Community
Counseling Center Inc. for the public purpose of providing mental health and outreach
services to persons who live and/or work in Marblehead and surrounding areas for a term
of five years with a five-year renewal option. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

CONTRACT. Accessible Ramps. Amend. Motion made and seconded to amend the
contract between J. Marchese and the Town for accessible ramps by increasing the
amount by eight thousand two hundred dollars ($8,200.00) and authorize the Chairman to
sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor

PROCLAMATION. Holocaust Education Awareness Month. Motion made and
seconded to issue a proclamation proclaiming January as Holocaust Education and
Awareness Month and January 27, 2021 as Holocaust Remembrance Day. Moved by Mr.
Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

REVOLVING FUND ACCOUNTS. Motion made and seconded to reauthorize the
following Revolving Fund Accounts for Fiscal Year 2022 in accordance with Mass
General Laws Chapter 44, Section 53E ½ in the amounts below:
Animal Control Department                          $ 20,000
Council on Aging                                   $ 250,000
Board of Health, commercial waste disposal         $ 550,000
Board of Health, vaccines                          $ 10,000
Highway, street opening fees                       $ 150,000
Sump pump improvement                              $ 10,300
Historical Commission Gift                         $ 15,000
Recreation and Parks                               $ 800,000
Marblehead Public Schools                          $1,200,000
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.




January 27, 2021                           8
RESIGNATION. Task Force Against Discrimination. A letter was received from
Stephen Hamelburg notifying the Board that due to a recent move he must resign from
the Task Force. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of appreciation to Stephen
Hamelburg for his service. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

LETTERS. Police Department. The Board received a letter from Marblehead’s Racial
Justice Team and 2 letters signed by multiple residents as it relates to the recent incident
involving a former police officer scratching a swastika into another police officer’s car
and their questions and concerns about this. The Chair read a statement addressing the
concerns raised and noting the expectations the Board has for the investigation currently
underway relating to this incident. Selectmen Nye and Grader each made a statement as
well. The Board continued in a dialogue with many members of the community who
were present on the Zoom meeting.

VACANCIES. The following is a list of vacancies on Town Boards, Commissions and
Committees. Anyone interested in serving on one of these Boards or Committees should
submit a letter of interest to the Board of Selectmen, Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street
or email to wileyk@marblehead.org
CABLE TELEVISION ADVISORY COMMITTEE – Term 1 year
2 Vacancies
CONSERVATION COMMISSION – Term: 3years
2 Vacancies
DESIGN REVIEW BOARD – Term: 3 years
1 Vacancy
FINANCE COMMITTEE – Term: 3 years
2 Vacancies
MARBLEHEAD CULTURAL COUNCIL – Term 3 years
9 Vacancies
OLD BURIAL HILL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE – Term 1 year
2 Vacancies
OLD AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS COMMISSION – Term: 1 year
1 Vacancy, Member
2 Vacancies, Alternate Members
TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION – Term: 1 year
1 Vacancy
TAXATION AID COMMITTEE – Term: 1 year
1 Vacancy
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
1 Vacancy – Alternate Member, Term 1 Year

EXECUTIVE SESSION. Contract Negotiations. Motion made and seconded to go
into Executive Session for the purposes of contract negotiations where the public
discussion on the same may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the
public body, votes may be taken, and if they are votes will be released at a time deemed



January 27, 2021                             9
appropriate by Counsel. The Board will or will not reconvene in open session. Moved
by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

The Board adjourned to Executive Session at 11:50 a.m.



                                   Kyle A. Wiley
                                   Administrative Aide




January 27, 2021                         10
