                                    SELECT BOARD

                                        MINUTES

                                   November 30, 2022

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall and via ZOOM Conferencing
A roll call was taken as follows, constituting a quorum:

                                M. C. Moses Grader, Chair
                                   Jackie Belf-Becker
                                     Erin M. Noonan
                                      James E. Nye
                                 Alexa Singer, remotely

                       Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

BOARD OF ASSESSORS. Public Hearing. Classification Tax Allocation Fiscal
Year 2023. John Kelley, Chair Board of Assessors, and Karen Bertolino, Town
Assessor, appeared before the Board to provide information necessary for votes to be
taken on the three available exemptions and a vote to determine the FY2023 tax factor
which determines how taxes are allocated between property classes. Ms. Bertolino
presented the 2023 total valuation of the town, which has received final certification from
the Department of Revenue (DOR) after meeting all DOR criteria and guidelines for
development of fair and equitable assessments throughout the Town of Marblehead. The
Board voted on each of the exemptions as follows:

Residential Exemption:
Classification allows the Board of Selectmen to grant an exemption of up to 20% of the
average assessed value of all Class One residential parcels, which are the principal
residences of the taxpayer. This particular exemption typically provides tax relief for full
time residents in vacation communities such as Nantucket or communities with a large
number of non-owner-occupied properties. Motion made and seconded not to adopt the
residential exemption. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Belf-Becker. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Nye,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor.

Small Commercial Exemption:
Chapter 220, §§ 112 and 187 of the Acts of 1993 provide for an exemption of up to 10%
of the assessed value for Commercial properties with an assessment of less than
$1,000,000 dollars and employing not more than ten people in the preceding calendar
year. This particular exemption benefits only the property owner, as the law does not
require the tax relief be passed through to the business owner. If adopted, this exemption
shifts the tax burden onto other Commercial and Industrial properties. Motion made and
seconded not to adopt the small commercial exemption. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded
by Mrs. Belf-Becker. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in



November 30, 2022                           128
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader,
in favor.

Open Space Discount:
Chapter 59 § 2A allows for a maximum of 25% exemption for property classified as
Open Space. “Class Two, open space” is land which is not otherwise classified and which
is not taxable under the provisions of chapters 61, 61A, or 61B, or taxable under a
permanent conservation restriction, and which land is not held for the production of
income but is maintained in an open or natural condition, and which contributes
significantly to the benefit and enjoyment of the general public. The Board of Assessors
has determined that no property in Town meets the strict definition of open space.
Motion made and seconded not to adopt the open space discount. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mrs. Belf-Becker. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor.

Chapter 369 of the Acts of 1982 requires the decision to shift the property tax burden
from one property class to another to be made by the Board of Selectmen, after a public
hearing. The statute provides a maximum allowable portion of the Tax Levy up to 150%
to be borne by Commercial, Industrial and Personal Property (CIP Class) and a minimum
allowable portion to be borne by the Residential Class. Motion made and seconded to
adopt a single rate factor of 1, all parcels to be levied at 100%. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mrs. Belf-Becker. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs.
Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor;
Mr. Grader, in favor.

TREASURER/COLLECTOR. Appointment. Rachel Blaisdell appeared before the
Board. Motion made and seconded to appoint Rachel Blaisdell Treasurer/Collector at
Grade 9, Step 3, with a term to expire June 2023. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs.
Belf-Becker. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of October 26, 2022 and
November 7, 2022. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Belf-Becker. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor.

CONTRACT. Motion made and seconded to amend the Annuity Services Contract
between EPlus and the Town to add 3 managed switches to the existing service contract
for monitoring by EPlus and to authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Belf-Becker. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor.




November 30, 2022                          129
CONTRACT. Collins Engineering Group for Engineering Services. Motion made
and seconded to award a contract to Collins Engineering Group for Engineering Services
for the Coastal Resilience Project in the amount of one hundred fifty-three thousand two
hundred and twenty-four ($153,224.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the
Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Belf-Becker. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor.

TOWN ADMINSTRATOR UPDATE.
  • Finance Director search continues to move forward.
  • Budget process with Department Heads will start end of this month.

Ms. Noonan addressed the Board relating to the ARPA vote taken by the Board on
October 12, 2022. Ms. Noonan stated her interpretation of the vote taken was different
than what she now understands the vote to be. A discussion continued regarding the
process of the ARPA working group and brining votes forward to the Board.

CONDOLENCE. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of condolence to the
family of Gary Spiess, former Town Moderator. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs.
Noonan. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor; Mrs.
Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:10 p.m. All in favor.



                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide


List of documents used:
Tax Classification FY23 documents
Resume – Rachel Blaisdell
Town Administrator update memorandum




November 30, 2022                         130
