                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                      July 27, 2022

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 pm. At Abbot Hall and via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                               M. C. Moses Grader, Chair
                                  Jackie Belf-Becker
                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                     James E. Nye
                                    Alexa J. Singer

                       Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

PUBLIC HEARING – Public Shade Tree Removal. Smith and Pleasant Street.
WSP USA / MBTA. The Chair opened the Public Hearing on an application submitted
by WSP USA, on behalf of the MBTA, for the removal of two public shade trees on
Pleasant Street, near Smith Street. Katie Moulton, WSP USA and Bin Zou, MBTA
presented a power point application to the Board. Along with removal of the trees and
relocating the bus stop, the applicant will be making $150,000 worth of renovations to the
current intersection and the new bus stop, creating ADA accessible curb cuts and
widening the sidewalks. A few residents spoke against the application asking that the
trees in question be pruned and/or the location of the bus stop be moved further down
Pleasant Street past the trees. Ms. Moulton reviewed the procedures and guidelines the
MBTA must adhere to as it relates to clearance for entering and exiting the bus, sidewalk
depth, distance to and from nearest bus stops and nearest crossing intersection. The 2
trees in question are very low hanging and do not allow the required clearing to safely
enter/exit the bus and they impede use of the sidewalk. She stated they were not opposed
to removing the tree closest to the intersection and pruning the second tree, and building
out the sidewalk to meet the requirement to access. No one spoke in favor of the
applicant. After review of the application and questions from the Board, the Chair
suggested the Board continue the hearing to the Boards next meeting to allow more
follow up on some of the questions raised. Motion made and seconded to continue the
Public Hearing for Public Shade Tree(s) Removal to August 15, 2022 at 7:00 p.m.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Belf-Becker. All in favor.

POLICE DEPARTMENT. Conditional offers of Employment. Chief King appeared
before the Board to request the Board offer conditional letters of employment to Abigail
Leblanc and Michael Farwell. Motion made and seconded to offer conditional offers of
employment to Abigail Leblanc and Michael Farewell as permanent full time police
officers for the Town of Marblehead subject to the successful completion of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts Physical Abilities Test; a complete physical




July 27, 2022                              94
examination and psychological examination, to be conducted by the Town’s physician
and a psychiatrist/psychologist of the Town’s choosing. All in favor.

MARBLEHEAD HOUSING AUTHORITY. Interview. Appointment. Bill Kuker
appeared before the Board as it relates to serving on the Marblehead Housing Authority,
Tenant Representative. The Board interviewed Mr. Kuker. Motion made and seconded
to appoint Bill Kuker to the Marblehead Housing Authority, Tenant Representative, with
a term to expire in June 2027. All in favor.

APPEAL. Article IV Curb Cut, 255-13, Section G. 87 Jersey Street. Emmet
McNulty, 87 Jersey Street, appeared before the Board on a curb cut appeal, 255-13,
Section G, at 87 Jersey Street. After review and discussion by the Board, the following
vote was taken; motion made and seconded to deny the Curb Cut appeal made by Emmet
McNulty, at 87 Jersey Street, as presented, and recommend the appellant work with the
Public Works Director on alternative options available to the homeowner and allowed by
the Town. All in favor.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of June 22, 2022, June
30, 2022 and July 13, 2022. All in favor.

PERMISSION. HarborFest. State Street Landing. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Melody Curran, HarborMoor, to use State Street Landing
parking lot on Sunday, August 28, 2022 from 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. to hold the
HarboFest Event subject to approval from Police, Fire, Harbormaster and final approval
from the Town Administrator, receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance and a police
detail. Access to the waterfront shall remain open at all times. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Amend. Exterior Painting of Police Station. Motion made and
seconded to amend the contract for Exterior Painting of Police Station between the Town
and John Skouras and Co, Inc. of Peabody, MA by increasing the contract amount four
thousand dollars ($4,000.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All
in favor.

CONTRACT. Amend. Bituminous Concrete. Motion made and seconded to amend
the contact for Furnishing delivering and applying Bituminous concrete paving between
the Town and D & R General Construction of Melrose, MA by exercising the third-year
option and extend the contract until September 1, 2023 and authorize the Chair to sign the
amendment on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

ABBOT HALL. Permission To Use. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Calista Maharaj, Girl Scout Marblehead Service Unit #396, to use Abbot
Hall on Sunday, September 18, 2022 from 5:00 pm to 7:00 pm for the annual Girl Scout
Bridging event, subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees and receipt of the required
Certificate of Insurance and to waive the fee for this event. All in favor.




July 27, 2022                               95
LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Marblehead Arts Association. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from James Murphy, Marblehead Arts
Association, for a one-day liquor license on Thursday, July 28, 2022, at the King Hooper
Mansion, 8 Hooper Street, for a fundraising event subject to the following conditions:
   • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
   • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.
   • Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from Kappy’s Importing. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mrs. Noonan. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor.

TOWN CLERK. Early Voting. The Board received correspondence from the Town
Clerk notifying the Board that Early Voting will take place August 27, 2022 – September
2, 2022, and to recommend hours for early voting. Motion made and seconded, on
recommendation by the Town Clerk, to approve Early Voting hours, in accordance with
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts election advisory, at Abbot Hall as follows:
Monday, August 29, 2022       8:30 am – 4:30 pm
Tuesday, August 30, 2022 8:30 am – 4:30 pm
Wednesday, August 31, 2022 8:30 am – 5:30 pm
Thursday, September 1, 2022 8:30 am – 4:30 pm
Friday, September 2, 2022 8:30 am – 12:30 pm
All in favor.

Early Voting will take place on Saturday, August 27, 2022 from 10:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m.
as well and does not require a vote of the Board.

MARBLEHEAD NEWS GROUP, INC. Jessica Barnett appeared before the Board to
introduce Marblehead News Group to the Board. Marblehead News Group, Inc., a Non-
profit based A501(c)3 recognized organization, and governed by a Marblehead-based
Board of Directors, is available online at MarbleheadNews.org and on Facebook with
plans to deliver a free paper edition to every household in Marblehead.

FY23 BUDGET PLANNING. The Chair spoke to the Board as it relates to FY23 and
building on the current budget document (GFOA) the Town has in place. The Chair
suggested the Board look at sections 49 – 69 that directly relate to the Select Board goals
and have a discussion at a future meeting. The Town Administrator stated this is a
working document and he is currently starting to work with each department to allow
Department Heads time to get their documentation reviewed and put together.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:50 p.m. All in favor.




July 27, 2022                               96
                                   Kyle A. Wiley
                                   Administrative Aide

List of documents used:
Application – Public Shade Tree Removal/ Shade Tree Regulations
Letter from Police Chief – conditional employment request
Letter, Bill Kuker. Marblehead Housing Authority
Curb Cut Appeal. Emmet McNulty
Minutes: June 15 / 30 and July 13, 2022
Request. HarborFest 2022
Abbot Hall. Request to use, Girl Scout Unit 396
Town Clerk letter. Early voting hours
Marblehead News / Introduction




July 27, 2022                           97
