                             BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES

                                  February 16, 2022

Board met in session at 7:15 p.m. via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     James E. Nye
                                   Erin M. Noonan
                                    Alexa J. Singer

                     John J. McGinn, Interim Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of February 16, 2022 to order. The following roll call was
taken: Mrs. Noonan, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mrs. Singer, present; Mr. Nye,
present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR SEARCH/RECRUITMENT. Mary Flanders Aicardi,
Human Resources Practice Leader Edward J. Collins, Jr. Center for Public Management,
appeared before the Board to give an introduction and overview of the process the Collins
Center and the Board will take in the search and recruitment of the Town Administrator
which include: Creation of a recruitment profile for the next Town Administrator,
Screening Committee Composition, meetings and confidentiality, timeline, screening
interviews, Board interview process and negotiating employment contract. After review,
motion made and seconded to appoint the following members to the Town Administrator
Search Committee: Erin Noonan, Selectmen; John McGinn, Interim Town
Administrator; Anthony Sasso, former Town Adminstrator; Rebecca Curran Cutting,
Town Planner and Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair, Board of Selectmen. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in
favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor. Motion made and seconded to approve the Screening Committee charge, as
recommended by the Consultant, and to appoint John McGinn, Interim Town
Administrator, Chairman. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

HOST COMMUNITY AGREEMENT. The following applicants appeared before the
Board seeking to enter into a Host Community Agreement with the Town: ARO
Cannabis, 222 Beacon Street; Flower& Soul, 56 Atlantic Avenue and Green Loft, 28
Atlantic Avenue. All three applicants appeared before the Board on January 12, 2022 to
present their applications. The Board initiated a 30 day period for residents to submit
comments on the applications. The Chair allowed each applicant up to 10 minutes each



February 16, 2022                          17
to address the Board and answer questions from the Board before moving to discussion
and a vote. Kate Federoff, Town Counsel, spoke to the process of taking a vote. Motion
made and seconded to enter into negotiations with ARO Cannabis. Moved by Mr.
Grader, seconded by Mrs. Noonan. The Board continued discussion. Town Counsel
clarified the Board’s questions in regards to stipulating a traffic study be conducted by
the applicant. Counsel advised that requiring a traffic study could be incorporated into
negotiations and the final HCA with the town and also advised the Board that this is the
last available license the Town has and that they may want to set a time frame for the
applicant to obtain an occupancy permit. The Board voted on the 1st motion taked as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor. Motion made and seconded to authorize the Town
Administrator and Town Counsel to enter into negotiations for a Community Host
Agreement with ARO Cannabis, 222 Beacon Street, provided that the applicant has a 2
year time limit to obtain a certificate of occupancy at the approved location. Moved by
Mrs. Noonan, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows:
Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor;
Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. Marblehead Firefighers, IAFF, Local 2043.
Motion made and seconded that the Marblehead Board of Selectmen designate John
McGinn, Interim Town Administrator, as the Board’s representative to enter into
collective bargaining negotiations pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter
150E, with the Town’s respective Union, namely the Marblehead Firefighters, IAFF,
Local 2043, regarding successor collective bargaining agreements effective July 1, 2022.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

GANNETTE NEW ENGLAND. Mrs. Noonan spoke to the Board about the recent
news that Gannette New England has announced it will cease local publication of the
Marblehead Reporter on February 28, 2022. Mrs. Noonan offered to draft a letter to
Gannette relaying the Boards disappointment with this decision and the impact on the
community this will have.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:55 p.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs.
Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.



                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

List of documents used:
Letter from Collins Center regarding process
ARO Cannabis, power point / Flower & Soul, location pictures



February 16, 2022                          18
