                                    SELECT BOARD

                                        MINUTES

                                    October 26, 2022

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall and via ZOOM Conferencing
The following roll call was taken:

                           M. C. Moses Grader, Chair, present
                               Jackie Belf-Becker, present
                                Erin M. Noonan, present
                                  James E. Nye, present
                           Alexa J. Singer, remote participation

                                  Thatcher W. Kezer III

VETERANS DAY. Dave Rodgers, Veterans’ Agent, appeared before the Board to
announce that the Town will hold its traditional Veterans Day service on Friday,
November 11, 2022 in Abbot Hall Auditorium at 10:00 a.m. Doors to Abbot Hall will
open at 9:00 a.m. Tim Kenney, US Navy, will be the principal speaker at Abbot Hall.
Shuttle service will be provided from the original National Grand Bank parking lot
starting at 9:00 a.m. Coffee and snacks will be served immediately following the
ceremony at the VFW, 321 West Shore Drive. All are welcome. For more information
contact Veterans Agent David Rodgers at 7841-631-0990.

POLICE DEPARTMENT. Conditional offers of Employment. Chief King appeared
before the Board to request the Board offer conditional letters of employment to Samuel
Rizos and Luc Marcus. Motion made and seconded to offer conditional offers of
employment to Samuel Rizos and Luc Marcus as permanent full time police officers for
the Town of Marblehead subject to the successful completion of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts Physical Abilities Test; a complete physical examination and
psychological examination, to be conducted by the Town’s physician and a
psychiatrist/psychologist of the Town’s choosing. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs.
Belf-Becker. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor;
Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Nye in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor.
Chief King introduced the candidates to the Board.

POLICE DEPARTMENT. Accreditation. Chief King appeared before the Board to
notify them that earlier in the day the police department was reaccredited as a
Massachusetts accredited agency by the Massachusetts Police Accreditation Commission.
This means that the Department adheres to the best practices in policing and professional
standards such as hiring, use of force and transparency. This is all guided by 257
different standards that identify things that need to be done within the department in their
policies, procedures and practices so that as a department you are always up to date as to
what is going on and are cognizant of the law, of community needs and what is the best



October 26 2022                             115
professional standard. Lt. Ostovitz and Officer Gagnon did all the work as accreditation
manager and assistant manager as well as a team effort by all those in the department.

COUNCIL ON AGING. Interview. Appointment. Phyllis Smith appeared before the
Board seeking appointment to the Council on aging. Motion made and seconded to
appoint Phyllis Smith to the Council on Aging with a term to expire in June 2023.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Belf-Becker. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Nye in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor Mr. Grader, in favor.

FINANCE COMMITTEE. Interviews. Appointment(s). The Board interviewed the
following applicants for the Finance Committee: Jim Zisson (remotely), Michael Janko,
Eric Knight, Rebecca Linhart and Larry Schall (remotely). Motion made and seconded to
place all candidates name into nomination to serve on the Finance Committee with 1st
person to reach majority vote appointed to term expiring in June 2025 and the 2nd person
to reach majority vote appointed to term expiring in June 2023. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mrs. Belf-Becker. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, Jim Zisson; Mr. Nye,
Michael Janko; Mrs. Belf-Becker, Michael Janko Mrs. Singer, Jim Zisson and Mr.
Grader, Michael Janko. Michael Janko appointed to the Finance Committee with a term
to expire in June 2025. On the 2nd polled voted the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye,
Eric Knight; Mrs. Belf-Becker, Eric Knight; Mrs. Singer, Becky Linhart; Mrs. Noonan,
Becky Linhart and Mr. Grader, Eric Knight. Eric Knight appointed to the Finance
Committee with a term to expire in June 2023.

SALEM OFFSHORE WIND TERMINAL PROJECT. Presentation. John Berry,
Crowley Wind Services, Terminal Operations Manager, appeared before the Board to
present Salem Harbor Wind Project. Crowley Wind Services is the new owner of the
former coal burning power plant site and is redeveloping that property to support
Offshore Wind in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and beyond. Crowley is
developing the property in a true Public Private Partnership to support clean renewable
energy to the citizens of the Commonwealth. An agreement is in place with the city of
Salem and with their first tenant, Avangrid, to develop and operate the second
marshalling port for OSW in the Commonwealth. Wind Port is in the process of design
and permitting and engaging the public, listening to the concerns and looking for
workable solutions that consider all stakeholders. Crowley has previously met with the
Town’s Department of Public Works, Harbormaster, Town Administrator and Select
Board Chair. Construction is expected to start next summer 2023 with plans to open for
operations in late 2025. Visit www.salemoffshorewind.com for updates to the project.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of October 12, 2022.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Belf-Becker. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr.
Nye in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor.



October 26 2022                           116
OVERNIGHT PARKING BAN. Winter Snow Emergencies. Motion made and
seconded to suspend Town of Marblehead Article 5 section 8 known as the current “All
night parking ban” and to implement in its place a snow emergency response to snow
events on an ‘as needed’ basis. Declared snow emergencies will prohibit on-street
parking starting at midnight the day of the anticipated snow storm. On-street parking will
be allowed the following morning starting at 7:00 am during a declared snow
emergency. If the duration of any snow emergency is more than a day, on-street parking
will be prohibited on each day of the snow emergency from midnight to 7:00 am. Any
vehicles that violate the provisions of this motion are subject to the issuance of parking
tickets and towing. Notification of a declared snow emergency shall be done through the
Town website, CodeRED automated call system, Town-managed social media accounts,
MHTV, and any other outlets the Town has available. This vote is revocable upon the
determination of the Police Chief, Fire Chief, Town Administrator, Department of Public
Works, or their designees, that it is negatively impacting public health and safety. Moved
by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Belf-Becker. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows:
Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Nye in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor.

POLICE DEPARMENT. Indemnification. Motion made and seconded to indemnify
Lt. Lunt for injuries sustained while on duty October 2, 2022. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mrs. Belf-Becker. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs.
Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Nye in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor;
Mr. Grader, in favor.

CONTRACT. Bobrek Engineering. Engineering Designer Services.
Extend/Amend. Motion made and seconded to amend the contract between the Town
and BOBREK, ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION, LLC, of Danvers, MA for
Engineering Design Services by extending the time to December 31,2023 and to expand
the current scope of work to include engineering services and assessments related to Town
roadways, sidewalks, walls, fences, and other Town infrastructure with no increase to the
contact amount and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr.
Nye, seconded by Mrs. Belf-Becker. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Nye in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor;
Mr. Grader, in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor. Marblehead Arts Association. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from James Murphy, Marblehead Arts Association, for a
one-day liquor license on Friday, October 28, 2022, 7:00 p.m. – 10:00 p.m., at the King
Hooper Mansion, 8 Hooper Street, for a fundraising event subject to the following
conditions:
   • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
   • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.




October 26 2022                            117
    •  Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of G. L. c. 138.
    • Alcohol will be purchased from Kappy’s Importing.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Belf-Becker. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr.
Nye in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor.

LICENSING. 1 Day Liquor. Marblehead Arts Association. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Aleece Bustamante, Marblehead Arts Association,
for a one-day liquor license on Thursday, November 17, 2022, 7:00 p.m. – 10:00 p.m. at
the King Hooper Mansion, 8 Hooper Street, for a fundraising event subject to the
following conditions:
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
    • Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.
    • Alcohol will be purchased from Kappy’s Importing.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Belf-Becker. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Nye in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor.

HOLIDAY HOURS. Abbot Hall and Mary Alley. The following holiday hours will be
observed at Abbot Hall and the Mary A. Alley Building
Veterans Day – week of November 7 – 11, 2022
   • Monday, November 7, 2022              8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
   • Tuesday, November 8, 2022             8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
   • Wednesday, November 9, 2022           8:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m.
   • Thursday, November 10, 2022           8:00 a.m. – 12:30 p.m.
   • Friday, November 11, 2022             CLOSED
Veterans Day Ceremony at Abbot Hall at 10:00 a.m.

Thanksgiving - Week of November 21 – 25, 2022
   • Monday, November 21, 2022            8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
   • Tuesday, November 22, 2022           8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
   • Wednesday, November 23, 2022        8:00 a.m. – 2:30 p.m.
   • Thursday, November 24, 2022         CLOSED
   • Friday, November 25, 2022           CLOSED

RETIREMENT BOARD. Annual Notification. The Board received a copy of the
annual 2023 budget from the Retirement Board as required by M.G.L Chapter 32, section
22.




October 26 2022                           118
OLD BURIAL HILL. Letter of Interest. A letter of interest was received from Judy
Gates as if relates to serving on the Old Burial Hill Oversight Committee.

MARBLEHEAD HOUSING AUTHORITY. Vacancy. The Board received
notification from Pay Foye, Acting Chair, that a vacancy has occurred on the Housing
Authority and asking the Board to advertise the vacancy. The Board will post this
vacancy. A deadline to submit letters of interest and a date for a joint meeting with the
Housing Authority to interview and appoint will be made at a future meeting. Letters of
interest should be submitted to: Select Board, Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street or
email wileyk@marblehead.org

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR UPDATE.
Finance Director search continues.
Pleasant Street construction update.
Humphrey Street paving schedule.
Elm Street / Orne / Beacon Streets, paving updates.
Red’s Pond – currently proceeding with a temporary fix that the Town will monitor while
working on permanent fix.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 9:15 p.m. All in favor.



                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide


List of documents used:
Resumes: Phyllis Smith, Michael Janko, Eric Knight, Rebecca Linhart, Larry Schall, Jim
Zisson
Police letter – indemnification
Marblehead Arts Association – (2) 1 day liquor license requests
Retirement Board notification
Letter of Interest – Judy Gates, Old Burial Hill
Housing Authority request for resumes for vacancy




October 26 2022                            119
