                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                    January 12, 2022

Board met in session at 7:00 p.m. via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye
                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                     Alexa J. Singer

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of January 12, 2022 to order. The following roll call was
taken: Mrs. Noonan, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mrs. Singer, present; Mr. Nye,
present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of December 8, 2022,
December 17, 2022 and December 21, 2022. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer,
in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

INTERIM TOWN ADMINSTRATOR. John J. McGinn appeared before the Board as
it relates to serving as Interim Town Administrator. Mr. McGinn addressed the Board
giving a brief outline of his background and his desire to fill the Interim Town
Administrator position. The Board asked Mr. McGinn questions. Motion made and
seconded to appoint John J. McGinn, Interim Town Administrator, subject to successful
contract negotiations. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor;
Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

TOWN ADMINSTRATOR SEARCH. Rebecca Cutting, Town Planner, Chief
Procurement Officer, appeared before the Board to review the process of procuring a
consultant to assist the Town in hiring a new Town Administrator. This process falls
under MGL Chapter 30B and depends on the dollar amount of the contract. Ms. Cutting
reviewed the different options and process. The Chair recommended Board members jot
down criteria they would like to see included in the solicitation and the Board can review.
Ms. Cutting will put together an outline of past practices to assist the Board in their
review.

MARBLEHEAD COUNSELING CENTER. Update. Funding Requests. Michael
Pelletier, David Ritchie, Frank Sweeney and Tim Phillips appeared before the Board to

present an overview of the Marblehead Counseling Center, review of the past year and
short term needs. MCC request to the Town for future sustainability is two-fold: 66
Clifton Avenue, building maintenance and tree work needed and on going operating
support (enhancing of their annual support from $60k to $120k). Mr. Grader spoke to the
infrastructure needs noting that these projects have been placed on the list for ARPA
funding. The ARPA Committee is currently reviewing all requests received from the
Town, prioritizing and ranking each request in accordance with the guidelines and public
input. The ARPA group will be presenting their findings and recommendations to the
Board of Selectmen at a future meeting.

FLOWER & SOUL. Retail Cannabis Dispensary. 56 Atlantic Avenue. Brian Wall,
Founder and CEO, Flower & Soul, and Brendan McKee, Consultant, appeared before the
Board to present their application seeking to enter into a Community Host Agreement
with the Town and Flower & Soul, 56 Atlantic Avenue. The Chair stated the Board will
not be voting on this application, or the other applicants on tonights agenda. In
accordance with state requirements, the applicant hosted a virtual Community Outreach
Meeting to allow the public to learn about their proposal, ask questions and offer
feedback. The next step in the approval process is for the Town to enter into a Host
Community Agreement with an applicant. Before the Board of Selectmen consider this
request, and to ensure residents have ample opportunity to provide input, the Board of
Selectmen opened a 30-day comment period on the application from Flower & Soul.
You can view the presentation provided to the Board of Selectmen on
www.marblehead.org. If you would like to offer any feedback on this application, please
email Kyle Wiley in the Selectmen’s Office at wileyk@marblehead.org or call 781-631-
0000. The comment period will be open until Friday, February 11, 2022.

Mrs. Noonan requested that the Chair take agenda items out of order.

2022 ANNUAL TOWN MEETING. Warrant Articles. Motion made and seconded to
place the following articles on the 2022 Annual Town Meeting Warrant:
     Articles in Numerical Order
     Reports of Town Officers and Committees
     Assume Liability
     Accept Trust Property
     Lease town Property
     Contracts in Excess of 3 years
     Departmental Revolving Funds
     Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
     Lease Purchase
     Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
     Walls and Fences
     Essex North Shore Agricultural and technical School District
     Collective Bargaining (Fire)
     Collective Bargaining (Police)
     Collective Bargaining (IUE/CWA – Local 1776)

       Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (administrative)
       Proposed Pay Schedule and Reclassification (Traffic Supervisors)
       Proposed reclassification and pay schedule (seasonal and temporary personnel)
     Compensation – Town Officers
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

2022 ANNUAL TOWN MEETING. Warrant Articles. Mrs. Noonan is seeking the
Board’s support in placing 2 articles on the 2022 Annual Town Meeting Warrant.
1. Change of Name to Select Board. After discussion motion made and seconded to
place an article on the 2022 Annual Town Meeting Warrant to change the name to Select
Board and have Town Counsel review for proper form. Moved by Mrs Noonan,
seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.
2. Replace Pronouns and Nomenclature to Gender Neutral Terms in Town Bylaws.
Motion made and seconded that the Board of Selectmen sponsor a warrant article for
Town Meeting to replace pronouns and nomenclature throughout our bylaws to gender-
neutral terms and authorize town counsel to work with the Town Administrator to
prepare the language of the article accordingly for further review. Moved by Mrs
Noonan, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

2022 ANNUAL TOWN MEETING. Citizen Petition Article. Order of Candidates
Names on Town Ballots. Bonnie Grenier, League of Women Voters, appeared before
the Board seeking the Board’s consideration of sponsoring on an article for Annual Town
Meeting which would change the order in which candidates names are listed on the ballot
for Town Elections by listing names on the ballot by random drawing by the Town Clerk.
The Board discussed and reviewed the practice of the Board as it relates to Citizens
Petitions. Town Administrator suggested this may not be appropriate for the Board to
weigh in on or take a position on an article that directly relates to the Boards candidacy
and they may want Town Counsel to review. Mr. Nye motioned that incumbments
names be listed at the bottom of the ballot. No one seconded. After discussion, Motion
made and seconded that this article should be a citzens petition and not sponsored by the
Board of Selectmen. Moved by Mrs. Belf-Becker, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, opposed; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs.
Singer, opposed; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

2022 ANNUAL TOWN MEETING. Citizen Petition Articles. Megan Sweeney,
PowerUp, and Jennifer Schaefner, appeared before the Board to present three articles for
consideration for Annual Town Meeting and seeking input from the Board: 1.
Procedures and Operations & Organizaitonal Structures 2. Opt out of Residency
Preference 3. Diversity Statement. Helaine Hazlett, Co-Chair, Task Force Against
Discrimination, addressed the Board as it relates to Ms. Sweeney’s request for a Diversity

Statement. The Task Force has an official Mission Statement and the Task Force is a
Board of Selectmen appointed committee and suggested that Ms. Sweeney adopt the
language, if desired, and invited Ms. Sweeney to a future Task Force Meeting to discuss
means to get the Mission Statement more visible. No votes were taken by the Board.

THE GREEN LOFT. Retail Cannabis Dispensary. 28 Atlantic Avenue. Paul
Lynch, Counsel and Peter D’Agostino, Consultant, appeared before the Board to present
their application seeking to enter ino a Community Host Agreement with the Town and
The Green Loft, 28 Atlantic Avenue. The Chair stated the Board will not be voting on
this application, or the other applicants on tonights agenda. In accordance with state
requirements, the applicant hosted a virtual Community Outreach Meeting to allow the
public to learn about their proposal, ask questions and offer feedback. The next step in
the approval process is for the Town to enter into a Host Community Agreement with an
applicant. Before the Board of Selectmen consider this request, and to ensure residents
have ample opportunity to provide input, the Board of Selectmen opened a 30-day
comment period on the application from Flower & Soul. You can view the presentation
provided to the Board of Selectmen on www.marblehead.org. If you would like to offer
any feedback on this application, please email Kyle Wiley in the Selectmen’s Office at
wileyk@marblehead.org or call 781-631-0000. The comment period will be open until
Friday, February 11, 2022.

ARO. Retail Cannabis Dispensary. 222 Beacon St. Mark Shuparro, CEO, Dan
Lawless, CEO, and Phil Silverman, Council, appeared before the Board to present their
application seeking to enter into a Community Host Agreement with the Town and ARO,
222 Beacon Street. The Chair stated the Board will not be voting on this application, or
the other applicants on tonights agenda. In accordance with state requirements, the
applicant hosted a virtual Community Outreach Meeting to allow the public to learn
about their proposal, ask questions and offer feedback. The next step in the approval
process is for the Town to enter into a Host Community Agreement with an applicant.
Before the Board of Selectmen consider this request, and to ensure residents have ample
opportunity to provide input, the Board of Selectmen opened a 30-day comment period
on the application from Flower & Soul. You can view the presentation provided to the
Board of Selectmen on www.marblehead.org. If you would like to offer any feedback
on this application, please email Kyle Wiley in the Selectmen’s Office at
wileyk@marblehead.org or call 781-631-0000. The comment period will be open until
Friday, February 11, 2022.

PARKING REGULATIONS. Handipcap Parking Space. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from the Police Chief for the following Handicapped
Parking Regulation as follows:
Proposed Handicapped Parking Regulation – Front Street
Handicapped Parking only on the southeast side of Front Street adjacent to the northwest
corner of the building at 147 Front Street more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a point on the face of the curbstone on the southeast side of Front Street
located perpendicular to the street line of Front Street at the northwest corner of the
alleyway between the two properties at 147 and 151 Front Street,

thence running southwesterly along the face of the curb 20’,
thence turning and running 90 degrees to the right a distance of 8’,
thence turning and running 90 degrees to the right a distance of 20’,
thence turning and running 90 degrees to the right a distance of 8’ to the point of
beginning
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

MASS CULTURAL COUNCIL FACILITIES FUND. Grant Request. Marblehead
Arts Association. Motion made and seconded to approve the request from Charles
Gessner, Marblehead Arts Association, to write a letter in support of the Marblehead Arts
Association grant application to the Mass Cultuarl Council Facilites Fund to fund the
preservation and renovation effort at the King Hooper Mansion and authorize the Chair to
sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PERMISSION. MS Walk. Motion made and seconded to approve the request from
Samantha Boland, National Multiple Sclerosis Society, to hold the annual MS Walk on
Saturday, May 7, 2022 subject to approval from Police, Fire, Schools, Recreation and
Parks, police details and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance. No permanent
markings are allowed on the streets and all temporary markings shall be removed at the
conclusion of the event. The walk will start and end at Marblehead High School. Moved
by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

BELL SCHOOL. Contract. Gilbane Building Company. Change Order #12.
Motion made and seconded to approve Gilbane Owner Change Order (OCO) #12 in the
amount of one hundred and twenty-nine thousand four hundred and forty-five and 00/100
dollars ($129,445.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by
Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

HARBOR PLAN WORKING GROUP. Selectmen Appointments. Motion made
and seconded to nominate Jackie Belf-Becker and Moses Grader to the Harbor Plan
Working Group. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Belf-Becker. Mrs. Singer moved
to amend the motion and appoint Jackie Belf-Becker and Erin Noonan to the Harbor Plan
Working Group. Moved by Mrs. Singer, seconded by Mrs. Noonan. After discussion,
the Board voted on the amended motion as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader,
opposed; Mr. Nye, opposed; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, opposed. Amended
motion fails. On a polled vote on the first motion the Board voted as follows: Mrs.
Noonan, opposed; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Singer, opposed; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor. Motion passed. The Town Administrator read the list of members

on the Harbor Plan Working Group: Harbors & Waters Board: John Doub and Gary
Gregory; Planning Board, Rosanna Ferrante; Recreation and Parks, Matt Martin;
Disabilities Commission, Amy Hirschkron; Chamber of Commerce, James Ashton;
Sustainable Marblehead, Rob Howie; Commercial Fishing, Matt Finn; At-large, Bill
Conly and Amy Drinker; Board of Selecment, Jackie Belf-Becker and Moses Grader;
Town Administrator; Harbormaster; Town Planner; DPW Director; Town Engineer. The
Town Administrator thanked the many residents that applied for the At-large positions
stating it was a very impressive group of applicants.

PERMISSION. YMCA Head to the Hill 5K. Motion made and seconded to approve
the request from Carol Meyer, YMCA of the North Shore, to hold the Head to the Hill
5K Road Race on Sunday, May 22, 2022 subject to approval from Police and Fire, police
details and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance. No permanent markings are
allowed on the streets and all temporary markings shall be removed at the conclusion of
the event. The event will start and end at the Lynch/van Otterloo YMCA. Moved by Mr.
Nye, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License(s). Artchiefs, Inc. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Yotam Mendlinger, Artchiefs Inc., 21B Essex
Street, for (2) one-day liquor licenses on Wednesday, January 19, 2022 and Wednesday,
January 26, 2022 from 6:00 p.m. – 10:00 p.m. at 21B Essex Street subject to the
following conditions:
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
         be purchased from an authorized source.
     Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
         disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
         requirements of G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from Kappy’s Importing, Everett. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

BELLS. Washington’s Birthday. Motion made and seconded that the bells of Abbot
Hall and all the churches in Marblehead be rung on Washington’s Birthday, Tuesday,
February 22, 2022 at the usual holiday hours from 7:30 a.m. to 8:00 a.m.; 12 noon to
12:30 p.m.; 6:00 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. as has been the custom in the past. Moved by Mr.
Nye, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor.

OPEN MEETING LAW COMPLAINT. Motion made and seconded to authorize
Town Counsel to send a formal response to Allen Waller and the Attorney General as it
relates to the Open Meeting Law Complaint of December 22, 2021 filed by Allen Waller.

Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CULTURAL COUNCIL. Letter of Interest. A letter of interest was received from
Yotam Metlinger as it relates to serving on the Cultural Council..

RESIGNATION. Housing Authority, Tenant Representative. A letter of resignation
was received from Heather Fitzgerald from the Housing Authority, Tenant
Representative.

RESIGNATION. Task Force against Discrimination. A letter of resignation was
received from Esther Darling Mulroy from the Task Force against Discrimnation.

The Town Administrator thanked the Chair and Board members for all their support the
past three and half years. Board members expressed their appreciation to the Town
Administrator, thanking him for his service to the Town and wished him luck in his
future endevours.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 11:00 p.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor. Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

List of documents used:
Marblehead Counseling Center power point
Flower & Soul, power point
List of warrant articles
Documentation regarding warrant articles 1. Select Board 2. Gender neutral changes
Citizens Petition article, Bonnier Grenier
Citizens Petition article(s), Megan Sweeney
ARO cannabis, power point
Request for HP spot, Front Street
MAA request for grant support
MS Walk request
Gilbane CO oco #12
YMCA Head to the Hill 5K request
(2) one day liquor licenses
OML complaint response – Allen Waller
Letter of Interest: Yotam Metlinger
Resignation: Heather Fitzgerald, HA, Esther Darling Mulroy, Task Force

