                                     SELECT BOARD

                                         MINUTES

                                     November 16, 2022

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall and via ZOOM Conferencing
The following members were present constituting a quorum:

                                 M. C. Moses Grader, Chair
                                    Jackie Belf-Becker
                                      Erin M. Noonan
                                       James E. Nye

                        Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

Task Force against Discrimination. Interview/Appointment. Saria Miller appeared
before the Board as it relates to serving on the Task Force Against Discrimination. Motion made
and seconded to appoint Saria Miller to the Task Force against Discrimination with a term
to expire in June 2023. All in favor.

PUBLIC HEARING. Licensing. Beacon Hill Imports, All Alcoholic Package Store
License, 1 Woodfin Terrace. Transfer of Stock. Pledge of Stock/License. Mark
Brown and Paul Lynch, Attorney, appeared before the Board as it relates to the
application from Beacon Hill Imports to transfer stock and to pledge stock and the liquor
license. No one spoke in opposition or in favor of the applicant. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Beacon Hill Imports, 1 Woodfin Terrace, to
transfer stock and pledge stock and the All-Alcoholic Package Store License, as
presented, subject to approval from the ABCC and receipt of all required forms. Moved
by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Belf -Becker. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor.
Change of Manager: Motion made and seconded to approve the request from Beacon
Hill Imports, 1 Woodfin Terrace, to change the Manager on the All-Alcoholic Package
Store License, as presented, to Mark Brown, subject to approval from the ABCC and
receipt of all required forms and CORI approval. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs.
Belf -Becker. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-
Becker, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor.

FAIR HOUSING COMMITTEE. The Chair opened the discussion with the Board
stating that in an effort to augment the Fair Housing Committee, the Chair saw an
opportunity to place the committee in a position to more effectively execute its mandate.
The Chair has met with members of the Fair Housing Committee and made a presentation
to the Fair Housing Committee to explain the rationale behind this augmentation which is
to have more operational heft on the committee, bring the committee closer to the ear of
the Select Board, with a Select Board Member on the committee as well as the Town
Administrator, serving as Chair and the Town Planner. Key point of change is to more


November 16, 2022                             122
clearly define and delineate the mandates between the Fair Housing Committee, Housing
Production Plan Committee the Affordable Housing Trust Committee and to coordinate
the activities of these different groups. Motion made and seconded to accept the
recommendation to revise the terms and conditions of the Fair Housing Committee as
follows: Pursuant to the motion adopted by the Select Board in June 2017, the Fair
Housing Committee shall consist of nine (9) Members for 3 years, staggered, such that
the initial terms of the Members of said committee shall be for one, two, and three years,
and their successor shall be appointed for terms of three years each. If a vacancy occurs
during a Member’s term, a successor shall be appointed for the remainder of the
term. Said committee shall hereby be constituted with six (6) required Members: Town
Administrator, acting as Chair, Town Planner, a member of the Select Board, a
representative from the Marblehead Housing Authority, a representative from the
Disabilities Commission, and a member of the Task Force Against Discrimination. Said
committee shall also be constituted with an additional three (3) Members deemed
qualified as representative and complimentary to the mission of said committee: local
residents, developers, public officials, banks, real estate agents, and/or special interest
organizations. Said committee shall also add three (3) Alternate Members. The first
Alternate Member appointed shall be for a term of one year, the second for a term of two
years, and every appointment thereafter shall be for a term of 3 years. Alternate
Member(s) shall be permitted to participate in any discussion of the committee, but shall
not be able to vote unless there is an absence of one of the regular Members. All in
favor.

SCHOOL COMMITTEE. Notice of Vacancy. Under MGL Chapter 41 §11, the Board
received notification from the School Committee Chair that a vacancy has occurred on
the School Committee. MGL Chapter 41 §11 requires the Select Board, after one week’s
notice, to fill such a vacancy by a joint roll call vote of the Select Board Members and the
remaining members of the School Committee. The Chair suggested a joint meeting with
the School Committee be held on Wednesday, December 7, 2022 to interview and
appoint to the School Committee. The Chair will reach out to the School Committee
Chair to confirm this date and post a public announcement of the vacancy with a deadline
to submit letters of interest and a resume by November 30, 2022.

ROAD PROJECTS. Update/Briefing. The Town Administrator and DPW Director
gave an update on the various road projects underway in Town in an effort to provide a
more detailed in-depth look as to why so many projects are going on at once and provide
a bit of insight into the challenges the Town faces with managing multiple projects. Amy
McHugh, DPW Director, made a PowerPoint presentation addressing some of the
questions and concerns that residents have had related to these projects.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of October 26, 2022 and
November 7, 2022. All in favor.

2023 ANNUAL TOWN MEETING. Open Warrant. Motion made and seconded that
the Annual Town meeting be held on Monday, May 1, 2023 at 7:00 p.m. at Marblehead




November 16, 2022                           123
Veterans Middle School Auditorium, at Duncan Sleigh Square, 217 Pleasant Street. All
in favor.
Motion made and seconded to open the Warrant for the May 1, 2023 Annual Town
Meeting. All in favor.
Motion made and seconded to close the Warrant for Town Government, Boards and
Commissions on Friday, January 20, 2023 at 12:00 noon. All in favor.
Motion made and seconded to close the Warrant for the General Public on Friday,
January 27, 2023 at 12:00 noon. All in favor.

POLICE DEPARMENT. Indemnification. Motion made and seconded to indemnify
Patrolman Andrew Dimare for injuries sustained while on duty October 26, 2022. All in
favor.

POLICE DEPARMENT. Indemnification. Motion made and seconded to indemnify
Patrolman Andrew Clark for injuries sustained while on duty October 15, 2022. Moved
by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Belf-Becker. All in favor.

OLD TOWN HOUSE. Permission to Use. Sustainable Marblehead. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Louise Bullis Yarmoth, Executive Director,
Sustainable Marblehead, to use the Old Town House on Thursday, January 26, 2023 from
5:30 pm – 9:30 pm for a book talk, subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees, receipt of
the required Certificate of Insurance and to waive the rental fee for this event. All in
favor.

PARKING RESTRICTIONS. Tree Lighting/Christmas Walk/Parade. Motion made
and seconded to approve the following parking regulations and traffic flow changes on
recommendation of the Police Chief:
Tree Lighting, December 2, 2022 - 7:00 p.m.
In the event of an overflow crowd that creates a public safety concern, the board
authorized the Chief of Police to close either Pleasant Street between School Street and
Spring Street or Essex Street between Atlantic Avenue and Pleasant Street. In either
case, traffic will be interrupted only if necessary.
Santa’s Arrival at Clark Landing, December 3, 2022 - at about 9:30 a.m.
The parking lot at Clark Landing to be closed in its entirety at 8:30 a.m. until such time as
it is safe to reopen.
Christmas Walk Parade December 3, 2022
Staging for the parade will be on Front Street between the Boston Yacht Club and State
Street (including Darling Street,) at about 10:30 a.m., then stepping off from Clark
Landing on a route including State Street, Washington Street, Atlantic Avenue, Gerry
Street and Pleasant Street. The closure of Front Street between Water Street and State
Street and Darling Street in its entirety from 10:00 a.m. until 12:30 p.m. All streets along
the parade route will be controlled by police officers as needed to facilitate the safe
passage of the parade.
All in favor.




November 16, 2022                           124
OLD TOWN HOUSE. Permission to Use. Old Marblehead Improvement
Association (OMIA). Motion made and seconded to approve the request from Maryann
Criswell, Old Marblehead Improvement Association (OMIA) to use the Old Town House
on Sunday, January 29, 2023 from 1:00 pm – 5:00 pm for their annual meeting and to
serve light refreshments and wine at no cost, subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees,
receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance and to waive the rental fee for this event.
All in favor.

MASSACHUSETTS SCHOOL BUILDING AUTHORITY. Initial Compliance
Certification. Veterans Middle School. Motion made and seconded to enter into the
Accelerated Repair Program with Massachusetts School Building Authority, as
presented, and authorize the Chair to sign the Initial Compliance Certification on behalf
of the Board. All in favor.

RELEASE OF CLAIMS. Motion made and seconded to approve payment in the
amount of $5,048.11 to resolve outstanding payments due to McKay Plumbing and
Heating, LLC. All in favor.

AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN ACT. (ARPA) Funding Requests. The Town
Administrator presented a summary of additional services/purchases to be funded through
ARPA. After review, motion made and seconded to formally approve the use of federal
ARPA Funds for the following purposes and amounts: After School Program, $75,000;
Summer Program, $20,000; Fueling Station Replacement, $972,010 for a total of
$1,067.010. All in favor.

AGREEMENT. Private Connection to Town Drainage. Motion made and seconded
to approve the License Agreement for a Private Connection to Town Drainage System
between the Town and Pamela and Peter Evan, 30 Evans Road, as presented, and
authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Coastal Resilience Project. Woods Hold Group. Motion made and
seconded to award a contract to Woods Hole Group for Engineering Services for the
Coastal Resilience Project in the amount of two hundred and one thousand three hundred
and ten and 00/100 ($201,310.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board.
All in favor.

CONTRACT. Coastal Resilience Project. Salem Coast Watch. Motion made and
seconded to award a contract to Salem Coast Watch for Consulting Services for the
Coastal Resilience Project in the amount of forty-six thousand dollars and 00/100
($46,000) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Hobbs House Boiler. North Shore Heating Supply. Motion made and
seconded to award the contract for the Boiler for the Town owned Hobbs House at 66
Clifton Avenue to North Shore Heating Supply in the amount of thirteen thousand eight
hundred ninety-two and 57/100 ($13,892.57) and authorize the Chair to sign the contract
on behalf of the Board. All in favor.



November 16, 2022                           125
CONTRACT. Infrastructure Asset Management. Motion made and seconded to
award a contract for the Infrastructure Asset Management – Sidewalks, Ramps, Signals to
Environmental Partners LLC of Quincy, MA in the amount of one hundred seventy-nine
thousand eight hundred fifty-six and 00/100 ($179,856.00) and authorize the Chair to
sign the contract on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

OLD TOWN HOUSE. Permission to Use. Chamber of Commerce. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Katherine Koch, Executive Director, Chamber
of Commerce, to use the Old Town House on Saturday, December 3, 2022, 11:00 am –
5:00 pm for musical performances and/or the “Chickie Curtis Holiday Marblehead
Village Display” (train set) subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees, receipt of the
required Certificate of Insurance and to waive the rental fee for this event. All in favor.

DEADLINE FOR VACANCIES. Marblehead Housing Authority. Old Burial Hill
Oversight Committee. Deadline to submit letters of interest for the vacancy on the
Housing Authority and the Old Burial Hill Oversight Committee is Friday, December 2,
2022. Applicants will be interviewed by the Board at their meeting on December 7,
2022.

PUBLIC COMMENT. Jim Zisson addressed the Board stating he was happy the Town
will be replacing Fueling Station and suggests the Board look into moving to a Town
Charter noting confusion around the process to fill school committee vacancy. The Chair
stated that MGL is very clear on the process that needs to be followed. Dan Albert
addressed the Board regarding the Complete Streets Committee.

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR UPDATE. The Town Administrator updated the Board as
follows:
Finance Department. Consultant. John McGinn, former Town Administrator and
Finance Director, is working on a part-time bases to ensure critical finance reports are
accomplished and to provide additional assistance as needed though the budget
development process.
Redd’s Pond. DPW and Recreation and Parks have completed temporary repairs of the
walkway next to Redd’s Pond with a more permanent fix to be undertaken in the near
future.
ClearGov Onboarding. Finance Committee approved transfer of $28,433.33 from
Reserve Fund to cover the contract cost for ClearGov. Onboarding process has begun to
implement ClearGov as a budget building software.

MHTV. Appreciation. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of congratulations to
James Maroney, MHTV for receiving three 1st place awards at the Noreast Video Festival
2022. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:30 p.m. All in favor.




November 16, 2022                           126
                                 Kyle A. Wiley
                                 Administrative Aide


List of documents used:
Saria Miller, letter of interest
Beacon Hill Import, Liquor License Application
Notification from School Committee, vacancy
Minutes, October 26, 2022 and November 7, 2022
Police Department (2) requests for Indemnification
Sustainable Marblehead, request for Old Town House
Police Chief, letter for parking restrictions, Christmas walk/parade
OMIA, request to use Old Town House
MSBA, Initial Compliance Application
Release of Claims document. McKay Plumbing
Agreement, Private Connection to Town Drainage. Evans. 30 Evans Road
Draft contract. Environmental Partners LLC
Chamber of Commerce. Request to use Old Town House
Town Administrator Update Memorandum




November 16, 2022                     127
