                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                      May 11, 2022

Board met in session at 9:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                     Alexa J. Singer

                      John J. McGinn, Interim Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of May 11, 2022 to order. All members of the Board are
participating remotely. The following roll call was taken: Mrs. Noonan, present; Mrs.
Singer, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

PARKING RESTRICTIONS. Pleasant/Essex Street. Motion made and seconded to
authorize the Police Chief, in consultation with the Town Administrator, to restrict
parking as needed on a portion of Essex Street, next to the Tourist Booth, during
construction. Moved by Mrs. Singer, seconded by Mrs. Noonan. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

LICENSING. 1 One Day Liquor License(s). Marblehead Spring Celebration
Event. Motion made and seconded to approve the request from John Connell for a one-
day liquor license for Marblehead Spring Celebration Event on Saturday, May 14, 2022
(rain date Sunday, May 15, 2022) from 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. at the Jeremiah Lee
Mansion, 161 Washington Street, subject to the following conditions:
       Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50. each)
       Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
be purchased from an authorized source.
       Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the requirements of
G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from Bent Water Distributing LLC. Moved by Mrs. Singer,
seconded by Mrs. Noonan. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in
favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. 1 One Day Liquor License(s). Erik’s Barber Shop. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Damien Savoia, Erik’s Barber Shop, 27c Atlantic
Avenue, for a one-day liquor license Saturday, May 21, 2022 from 1:00 p.m. – 6:00 p.m.,
subject to the following conditions:
       Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50. each)

       Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
be purchased from an authorized source.
       Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the requirements of
G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from Martignetti’s. Moved by Mrs. Singer, seconded by Mrs.
Noonan. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 9:06 a.m. Moved by Mrs. Noonan, seconded
by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.
.

                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

List of documents used:
1 day liquor license request, John Connell
1 day liquor license request, Erik’s Barber Shop

