                                  SELECT BOARD

                                      MINUTES

                                  September 14, 2022

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall and via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                               M. C. Moses Grader, Chair
                                  Jackie Belf-Becker
                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                     James E. Nye
                                    Alexa J. Singer

                      Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

Jackie Belf-Becker read a statement regarding the recent acts of antisemitism in Town.

LICENSING. Common Victualler License. Spitfire Tacos, 87 Pleasant Street.
Ryan Harriman appeared before the Board seeking a Common Victualler License at 87
Pleasant Street. Motion made and seconded to approve the application for a Common
Victualler License from K and R Restaurant Group LLC, d/b/a Spitfire Tacos, 87
Pleasant Street, Manager, Ryan Harriman, seating Capacity = 12. Hours of operation will
be Monday - Saturday 11:00 AM – 8:00 PM, subject to receipt of a completed
application, applicable inspection sign offs and all fees paid. All in favor.

LICENSING. Common Victualler License. Blue Canoe, 14 School Street. Heather
Harrison appeared before the Board seeking a Common Victualler License at 14 School
Street. Motion made and seconded to approve the application for a Common Victualler
License from Blue Canoe Café, Manager, Heather Harrison, seating Capacity = 19.
Hours of operation will be Monday – Sunday 6:30 AM – 2:00 PM, subject to receipt of a
completed application, applicable inspection sign offs and all fees paid. All in favor

JOINT MEETING. Marblehead Light Commission. Interviews. Appointment.
The following applicants were interviewed jointly by the Select Board and the
Marblehead Light Commission Members, Lisa Wolf, Michael Hull, Jean-Jacques
Yarmouth, Simon Frechette and the Select Board: Applicants interviewed were: Peter
Barnet, James Full, Christopher Hardy, Matthew Harrington, Igor Pedan, Adam Smith,
Thomas Veilleux and Jim Zisson. Motion made and seconded to place all names in for
nomination to serve on the Marblehead Light Commission with a term to expired in June
2023. All in favor. On a polled vote the Boards voted as follows: Mr. Hull, Thomas
Veilleux; Mr. Yarmouth, Adam Smith; Ms. Wolf, Adam Smith; Mr. Frechette, Adam
Smith; Mrs. Singer, Christopher Hardy; Mrs. Noonan, Adam Smith; Mr. Nye, Thomas
Veilleux; Mrs. Belf-Becker, Thomas Veilleux; Mr. Grader, Thomas Veilleux. On a
second polled vote the Boards voted as follows: Mr. Hull, Thomas Veilleux; Mr.



September 14, 2022                        104
Yarmouth, Adam Smith; Ms. Wolf, Adam Smith; Mr. Frechette, Adam Smith; Mrs.
Singer, Adam Smith; Mrs. Noonan, Adam Smith Adam Smith is appointed to the
Marblehead Light Commission with a term to expire in June 2023.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of September 1, 2022. 4
voted in favor, Mrs. Noonan voted present.

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Rotary Club of Marblehead. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from the Rotary Club of Marblehead to hold the 26th
annual Holiday Pops Concert at Abbot Hall on December 10, 2022, with set up and break
down on December 9, 2022 and December 11, 2022 and subject to the usual rules,
regulations, fees and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance and to waive the
rental fee for this event. 4 voted in favor, Mr. Nye voted present.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor, Abbot Hall. Marblehead Rotary Club. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from Jessica Barnett, Marblehead Rotary
Club, for a 1-day liquor license at Abbot Hall on Saturday, December 10, 2022 from 6:00
p.m. – 11:00 p.m. for the annual Holiday Pops concert, subject to the following
conditions:
• Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50)
• Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will be
purchased from an authorized source.
• Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the requirements of
G. L. c. 138.
• Alcohol will be purchased and delivered from North Shore Bartenders.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor, Mrs. Noonan, in
favor; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor, Clifton Lutheran Church. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Rev. James Bixby, Clifton Lutheran Church, for a
1-day liquor license at 150 Humphrey Street on Sunday, October 2, 2022 from 12:00 p.m.
– 4:00 p.m. for a fundraiser subject to the following conditions:
• Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50)
• Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will be
purchased from an authorized source.
• Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the requirements of
G. L. c. 138.
• Alcohol will be purchased from Merrimack Valley Distributing Co., Inc.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor, Mrs. Noonan, in favor;
Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor.

OLD TOWN HOUSE. Permission to Use. Old Marblehead Improvement
Association (OMIA). Motion made and seconded to approve the request from Maryann
Criswell, Old Marblehead Improvement Association (OMIA) to use the Old Town House


September 14, 2022                         105
on Sunday, October 23, 2022 from 1:00 pm – 5:00 pm for their annual meeting and to
serve light refreshments and wine at no cost, subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees,
receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance and to waive the rental fee for this event.
All in favor.

PERMISSION. MHS Booster Drive. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Jill Kayer, Co-Chair, Scholarship Drive, to hold the annual Marblehead
High School All Sports Boosters door-to-door canvas on Sunday, October 2, 2022 from
12:00 noon to approximately 3:00 p.m. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Archive Architectural Services. Amend. Motion made and seconded
to amend the contract for archive architectural services contract between the Town of
Marblehead and the Smith Group by increasing the amount by sixty-nine thousand one
hundred and eleven dollars ($69,111.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the
Board. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Historic Properties Survey, Devereux Neighborhood. Motion made
and seconded to award a contract to John Clemson for the historic properties in the
Devereux Neighborhood survey project in the amount of thirty-five thousand dollars
($35,000) and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board. All in
favor.

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Marblehead High School, Art Show. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from Shirley Huller White, Lead
Teacher/Instructor, Visual Art, AP Art History, to use Abbot Hall for the Annual
Marblehead High School Art Show May 22 – June 2, 2023, including installation the
week of May 15, 2023 and breakdown following the show, subject to the usual rules,
regulations, fees and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance. All in favor.

REAPPOINTMENTS. Constable. Civil Service. Motion made and seconded to
reappoint Timothy Shotmeyer as Constable, for the purpose of serving Civil Process,
with a term to expire in June 2023. All in favor.

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Veteran Town Hall. Motion made and seconded
to approve the request from Congressman Seth Moulton to use Abbot Hall on Friday,
November 11, 2022 at 11:30 a.m. for a Veteran Town Hall subject to the usual rules,
regulations and fees paid to the Town. All in favor.

FINANCE COMMITTEE. Vacancies. The Select Board announced 2 vacancies on
the Finance Committee. Letters of interest and resumes to serve on the Finance
Committee should be submitted to the Select Board, Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street
or email wileyk@marblehead.org. Deadline to submit is October 21, 2022.

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR. The Town Administrator updated the Board on the
following:
    • Break in at Mary Alley over the weekend



September 14, 2022                          106
    •   Water Main break and repair
    •   possible future request for budget building software
    •   Attorney General approvals on 2022 Annual Town Meeting articles

Jean-Jacques Yarmouth asked a question regarding the future budget building software the
Town Administrator was referring to.

Allen Waller addressed the Board, regarding an Open Meeting Law Compliant he filed and the
response he received from the Town, asking the Board to take a vote to disavow the letter that
was sent by Town Counsel. The Chair stated the Board will follow the judgement of Town
Counsel.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 9:25 p.m. All in favor.



                                        Kyle A. Wiley
                                        Administrative Aide


List of documents used:
Sptifire Tacos Common Vic Application
Blue Canoe Common Vic Application
Resumes: Peter Barnet, James Full, Christopher Hardy, Matthew Harrington, Igor Pedan, Adam
Smith, Thomas Veilleux and Jim Zisson
Rotary Club request for Abbot Hall and 1 day liquor license
Clifton Lutheran Church request for 1 day liquor License
OMIA request to use Old Town House
MHS Boosters request to hold annual drive
MHS request to use Abbot Hall
Reappointment application, Shotmeyer, Constable
Abbot Hall request to use from Congressman Moulton




September 14, 2022                            107
