                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                   January 10, 2022

Board met in session at 10:00 a.m. via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye
                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                     Alexa J. Singer

                            Jason Silva, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of January 10, 2022 to order. The following roll call was
taken: Mrs. Noonan, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mrs. Singer, present; Mr. Nye,
present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

INTERIM TOWN ADMINISTRATOR. The Chair announced that the Board has
received the resignation of Jason Silva, Town Administrator, and spoke to the steps she
has taken to seek a potential interim Town Administrator and steps needed to move
forward to hire a consultant for the search process for the next Town Administrator.
Adam Costa, Town Counsel, appeared before the Board to discuss the steps to appointing
an interim Town Administrator. Attorney Costa stated that there is no protocal for the
process for appointing an interim Town Administrator and the Chair is acting within her
authority in reaching out to an individual or an organization in an effort to bring a
candidate forward to the Board for review, further considertion and a potential vote. A
vote of the full Board is required to appoint an iterim as well as a permanent Town
Administrator. Motion made to authorize the Chair to reach out, on behalf of the Board,
to any potential candidate to serve as interim Town Adminsitrator. Motion was not
seconded. Motion made and seconded to authorize the Chair to negotiate with potential
interim Town Administrator and work with Town Counsel and the Town’s Chief
Procurement Officer to develop scope of work and solicit proposals for search
consultants for permanent Town Administrator position. Moved by Mrs. Noonan,
seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:50 a.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

                                     Kyle A. Wiley, Administrative Aide



January 10, 2022                            1
List of documents used:




January 10, 2022          2
