                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                      May 18, 2022

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 pm. at Abbot Hall and via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye
                                     Alexa J. Singer

                      John J. McGinn, Interim Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of May 18, 2022 to order. This meeting is being videotaped
and recorded via Zoom.

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR. Appointment. The Chair reviewed the process the
Town had taken in the search for a new Town Administrator. Thatcher Kezer appeared
before the Board as it relates to being appointed Town Administrator. The Board
conducted an interview and then discussed Mr. Kezer’s qualifications and experiences for
the position. Motion made and seconded to appoint Thatcher W. Kezer Town
Administrator subject to successful contract negotiations. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded
by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

VETERANS AGENT. Memorial Day. David Rodgers, Veterans’ Agent, appeared
before the Board to announce the following Memorial Day events:
Friday, May 27, 2022. 9:00 a.m. Veterans Breakfast at the Council on Aging
sponsored by the Masons.
Saturday, May 28, 2022. 9:00 a.m. from the Bell Tower at Waterside Cemetery.
Veteran’s Grave Flagging. All are welcome to participate in honoring Marblehead’s
Veterans. Anyone needing a flag for a Veteran’s Grave may call the Veterans Office at
781-631-0990.
Sunday, May 29, 2022. 1:00 p.m. Veterans Service at Star of the Sea Cemetery.
Public is welcome.
Monday, May 30, 2022. Memorial Day Parade. 8:00 a.m. Muster at Old Town
House. 9:00 a.m. main parade begins; march to Memorial Park and then proceed to
Waterside. Trolley service will be available from the VFW at 7:30 a.m. for all Veterans
who may need assistance to participate in the activities. Breakfast will be served at the
VFW after the ceremonies. The public is invited and encouraged to attend all
ceremonies.

LICENSING. PUBLIC HEARING. Transfer, All Alcoholic Package Store License
and Pledge of Inventory. 112 Washington Street, Mookies at Mugford LLC. Sean
Patrick Ferguson appeared before the Board seeking a transfer and pledge of inventory
for the All-Alcoholic Beverage Package Store License at 11 Washington Street. No one
spoke opposed to the application. John Kelley spoke in favor of the Transfer. Hearing
was closed. Motion made and seconded to approve the transfer of the All-Alcoholic
Package Store License and Pledge of Inventory from Haley’s Public Market Inc. to
Mookies at Mugford LLC, d/b/a Haley’s Wine and Spirits, hours of operation Monday
through Saturday 8:00 am – 10:00 pm, Sundays 12:00 noon to 6:00 pm, subject to
approval from the ABCC, Cori approval, receipt of all applicable inspection sign offs and
all fees paid. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of: April 27, 2022 and
May 11, 2022. Moved by Mrs. Noonan, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

PRIDE FLAG RAISING. Abbot Hall. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Reece Dahlberg, Member, Marblehead Pride 2022 Committee, to use Abbot
Hall on Sunday, June 5, 2022 at 3:00 pm (rain date Sunday, June 12, 2022) subject to the
usual rules, regulations and fees. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor;
Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Eli Neuman-Hammond. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Eli Neuman-Hammond to use Abbot Hall on
Saturday, August 20, 2022 from 12:00 noon – 6:00 p.m. for a concert and video
screening subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees and receipt of the required
Certificate of Insurance. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. All in favor.

PERMISSION. Charter School Fun Run. Rain Date. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Connie DeBoever to schedule a rain date of Sunday, June 12,
2022 for the previously approved Charter School Fun Run on Sunday, June 5, 2022,
subject to approval of the Marblehead Police and Recreation and Parks, receipt of the
required Certificate of Insurance naming the Town of Marblehead as additionally insured
and police details. No permanent markings shall be made on the streets and any
temporary markings shall be removed at the conclusion of the event. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mrs. Noonan. All in favor.

PRIVATE CONNECTION TO TOWN DRAINAGE. 11-R Harris Street. Motion
made and seconded to approve the License Agreement for Private Connection to Town
Drainage System, as presented, between the Town and 45 – 49 Pleasant Street LLC of 96
Swampscott Road, Salem, MA for 11-R Harris Street. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mrs. Noonan. All in favor.

PRIVATE CONNECTION TO TOWN DRAINAGE. 49 Pleasant Street. Motion
made and seconded to approve the License Agreement for Private Connection to Town
Drainage System, as presented, between the Town and 45 – 49 Pleasant Street LLC of 49
96 Swampscott Road, Salem, MA for 49 Pleasant Street. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded
by Mrs. Noonan. All in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Marblehead Historical Commission. Old
Town House. Motion made and seconded to approve the request Chris Johnston,
Chairman, Historical Commission, for a one-day liquor license for the opening reception
on July 8, 2022 at the Old Town House 5:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. subject to the following
conditions:
      Liquor Liability Insurance
      No alcohol is to be stored on premise at the Old Town House
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

LICENSING. (2) One Day Liquor License(s). Shubies. Motion made and seconded
to approve the request George Shube, Shubie’s, for (2) one-day liquor license for wine
tasting events from 3:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. on Thursday, June 2, 2022, Thursday, June 23,
2022 under the tent at 18 Atlantic Avenue subject to the following conditions:
       Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50. each)
       Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
be purchased from an authorized source.
       Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the requirements of
G. L. c. 138.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor

DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE. Letter of Interest. A letter of interest was
received from Henry Celli as it relates to serving on the Design Review Committee. The
Board will receive letters of interest to serve on Design Review Committee until June 3,
2022. Applicants will be received at a future meeting of the Board in June.

ARTICLE 31, LEAF BLOWERS. Mr. Nye read the following statement regarding
enforcement of Article 31: all actions of Town Meeting that amend the Town's By-laws
must be reviewed and approved by the Massachusetts Attorney General's office before
they can take effect. The Town Clerk has 30 days from when Town Meeting ends to
submit any actions of Town Meeting to the Attorney General's Office. Once the Attorney
General's office receives the changes, they have 90 days to respond to the Town, they can
also extend this 90-period depending on their workload with other matters

EXECUTIVE SESSION. Motion made and seconded to go into Executive Session
under G.L. c. 30A for the purposes of contract negotiations, Town Administrator, where

the public discussion on the same may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating
position of the public body, votes may be taken, and if they are votes will be released at a
time deemed appropriate by Counsel. The Board will or will not reconvene in open
session. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted
as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye,
in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

The Board adjourned to Executive Session at 8:15 p.m.

                                      Kyle A. Wiley
                                      Administrative Aide

List of documents used:
Thatcher Kezer resume
Mookies at Mugford Liquor Application
Eli Neuman-Hammond request for Abbot Hall
Fun Run rain date request
Private drain connection agreements: 11-R Harris St/ 49 Pleasant St
Shubies – 2 1-day liquor license
Historical commission – 1 day liquor license
Letter of Interest. Henry Celli, Design Review Committee

