                              BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                       MINUTES

                                    January 25, 2022

Board met in session at 6:30 p.m. via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                      James E. Nye
                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                     Alexa J. Singer

The Chair called the meeting of January 25 2022 to order. The following roll call was
taken: Mrs. Noonan, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mrs. Singer, present; Mr. Nye,
present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

FY2022 STATE OF THE TOWN. Stephen Poulos, Finance Director, appeared before
the Board to present the 2021 State of the Town. gave a presentation concerning the
projected financial status of the town for FY23. The Town is facing increased financial
difficulties as FY22 progresses and planning for FY23 begins. While the Town is
currently in good financial health, difficult decisions will need to be made for FY23 and
beyond to ensure continued fiscal stability. The Town will continue to take proactive
steps to ensure future fiscal stability.

EXECUTIVE SESSION. Motion made and seconded to adjourn into Executive session
under M.G.L. c. 30A, Sec. 21 to discuss contract negotiations related to the Interim Town
Administrator, where an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating
position of the Town. Votes may be taken and, if they are, votes will be released at a
time deemed appropriate by counsel. The Board will reconvene in open session. Moved
by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs.
Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.

The Board resumed in Open Session at 7:58 p.m. The following roll call was taken:
Mrs. Singer, present; Mrs. Noonan, present; Mr. Grader, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, present.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of January 10, 2022.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.




January 25, 2022                            9
INTERIM TOWN ADMINISTRATOR. Contract. Motion made and seconded to
approve the contract between the Town and John J. McGinn, Interim Town
Administrator, as prepared by Town Counsel. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PERMISSION. Miles for Mary 5k walk/run. Motion made and seconded to approve
the request from William H. Park to hold the annual Miles for Mary Memorial 5K
run/walk to support Brain Cancer research on Saturday, October 15, 2022 from 8:30 a.m.
– 12:00 noon subject to approval from Police and Fire, Recreation and Parks Department,
receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance and police details. No permanent
markings shall be made on the streets and any temporary markings shall be removed at
the conclusion of the event. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled
vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

DONATION ACCOUNT. Rail Trail. Motion made and seconded to establish a
donation account for the Rail Trail. The Town has a Master Plan for the Rail Trail and is
implementing it incrementally. The Town received $400,000 in Complete Streets
Funding and 2 DCR Trail Grants and will continue to seek funding. Checks should be
made out to the Town of Marblehead and sent to Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street,
Marblehead, MA. Please note “Rail Trail” in the memo line.

The Board discussed the State of the Town presentation and received public comment.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 9:15 p.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.



                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

List of documents used:
State of The Town, power point
Contract. Interim Town Administrator
Miles for Mary, 5K walk/run




January 25, 2022                            10
