                                     SELECT BOARD

                                         MINUTES

                                    September 28, 2022

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall and via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                                 M. C. Moses Grader, Chair
                                    Jackie Belf-Becker
                                      Erin M. Noonan
                                       James E. Nye
                                      Alexa J. Singer

MARBLEHEAD HOUSING AUTHORITY. Cathy Hoog, Executive Director, Salem
and Marblehead Housing Authority, appeared before the Board to present a power point
presentation and brief overview of the Agency and Industry and to answer questions from
the Board.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of September 14, 2022.
All in favor.

PERMISSION. Fort Sewall. Wedding. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Katherine Boyce and Patrick Nash to use Fort Sewall on September 9, 2023
for a Wedding ceremony from 3:00 p.m. – 6:00 p.m. subject to the usual rules,
regulations, fees, receipt of the required Certificate of Liability and police details and that
the Fort remail open to the public at all times. All in favor.

LICENSING. 1 Day Liquor License. Bubble Bar Boston. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Mari Tilkens, Bubble Bar Boston, for a one-day
liquor licenses for Saturday, October 1, 2022 from 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. at the
Jeremiah Lee Mansion, Washington Street, for Discover Marblehead Fall Fair, subject to
the following conditions:
•       Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50)
•       Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
be purchased from an authorized source.
•       Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the requirements of
G. L. c. 138.
    • Alcohol will be purchased from Martignetti’s and Horizon Distributors.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor.




September 28, 2022                           108
CONTRACT. Harbor Plan Project. Amend. Motion made and seconded to amend
the contract with Innes Associates Ltd of Byfield, MA for the Harbor Plan Project by
extending the term of contract until December 30, 2022. All in favor.

CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. 51st Annual Christmas Walk. Tree Lighting.
Parade. Old Town House. Motion made and seconded to approve the request from
Katherine Kock, Executive Director, Marblehead Chamber of Commerce, for the
following events and venues subject to approval from Police and Fire, and the usual rules,
regulations, fees and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance:
    • Christmas Walk Banner: Reservation of banner space across Tedesco Street from
        Monday, November 28 through December 4, 2022.
    • Annual Tree Lighting: Friday, December 2, 2022 at the National Grand Bank
        parking lot. Events starts at 5:30pm, tree lighting at 7pm.
    • Holiday Wreaths/Garland swaps and bows: Hang approximately 150 holidays
        wreaths and garland wraps throughout the business districts, starting the week of
        November 14, 2022, subject to approval from the Marblehead Municipal Light
        Department and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance. All decorations
        shall be removed by January 9, 2023.
    • Holiday Lighting: Turn on the holiday lights at the Old Town House and State
        Street Landing by Friday, November 14, 2022
    • 51st Annual Marblehead Christmas Walk Parade: Saturday, December 3, 2022.
        The parade begins at 12:00 noon at the State Street Landing and continues onto
        Washington Street and then onto Atlantic Avenue. The parade route continues
        from the Police Station, taking a right onto Gerry Street and then a right onto
        Pleasant Street, continues down Pleasant Street, past Village Plaza and ending at
        the National Grand Bank parking lot.

DONATION. Marblehead Museum. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from the Marblehead Forever Committee to donate $500 to the Marblehead
Museum to be used for a free public program on Indigenous Peoples Day, Monday,
October 10, 2022 in the Lee Mansion Garden. All in favor.

PARKING RESTRICTIONS. Round House Road. Annual Clean up. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Amy McHugh, Public Works Director, to
temporarily make the entirety of the Railroad Right of Way known as Roundhouse Road,
from School Street through to Bessom Street, as well as upper Anderson Street from #10
Anderson through to Bessom Street a NO PARKING/TOW ZONE area for the
following dates:
        October 19, 2022 from the hours of 7:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m.
        Rain Date: October 20, 2022 from the hours of 7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
This is to facilitate the annual clean-up and repair of town property in this area. All in
favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor. Bent Water Brewing. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from John Connell for Bent Water Brewing Co., for a one-day liquor
licenses for Saturday, October 1, 2022 from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.at the Jeremiah Lee


September 28, 2022                         109
Mansion, Washington Street, for Discover Marblehead Fall Fair, subject to the following
conditions:
   • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50)
   • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.
   • Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of G. L. c. 138.
   • Alcohol will be purchased from Bent Walter Distributing LLC.
   • On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan,
       in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor.

RESIGNATION. Disabilities Commission. A letter was received from Sue Harris,
Disabilities Commission. Motion made and seconded to accept, with regret, the
resignation of Sue Harris from the Disabilities Commission and to send a letter of
appreciation. All in favor.

COUNCIL ON AGING. Letter of Interest. A letter of interest was received from
Phyllis Smith as it related to serving on the Council on Aging.

RESIGNATION. Housing Authority. A letter was received from the Town Clerk
notifying the Board of Joan Cutler’s resignation from the Housing Authority. Motion
made and seconded to accept, with regret, the resignation of Joan Cutler from the
Housing Authority and to send a letter of appreciation. All in favor.

VACANCIES. Deadlines to submit letters of interest. Interviews. The Board set the
following deadlines to submit for vacancies on Town Boards and Commissions:
Council on Aging, deadline to submit, October 21, 2022. Interviews, October 26, 2022
Task Force against Discrimination, deadline to submit, October 21, 2022. Interviews,
October 26, 2022.
Finance Committee. The Board previously set a deadline of October 21, 2022 to submit.
Interviews, October 26, 2022

AFFORDABLE HOUSING TRUST FUND. Ms. Noonan spoke with the Board
regarding posting a meeting for the Affordable Housing Trust Fund.

Mike Rockett addressed the Board regarding the multiple construction projects taking
place in Town, asking the Board to look at the sequencing of these projects and take into
consideration the residents and the businesses in Town that are affected.

Biff Martin addressed the Board regarding the condition of the sidewalks and Redd’s
Pond.

Judy Gates addressed the Board regarding the condition of the sidewalks and the
overgrown bushes at Redd’s Pond.



September 28, 2022                         110
Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:20 p.m. All in favor.



                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide


List of documents used:
Marblehead Housing Authority power point
Katherine Boyce, letter regarding Fort Sewall
Bubble Bar Boston, 1 day liquor
Chamber of Commerce, Christmas walk events
Marblehead Forever Committee, request to donate to Marblehead Museum
DPW letter, Roundhouse Road cleanup
Bent Water Brewing, 1 day liquor
Resignation letter, Sue Harris
Letter of Interest, Phyllis Smith
Town Clerk notice, Housing Authority resignation




September 28, 2022                        111
