                             BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                     MINUTES

                                    March 1, 2022

Board met in session at 7:00 p.m. via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     James E. Nye
                                   Erin M. Noonan
                                    Alexa J. Singer

                     John J. McGinn, Interim Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of March 1, 2022 to order. All members of the Board are
participating remotely. The following roll call was taken: Mrs. Noonan, present; Mr.
Grader, present; Mrs. Singer, present; Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, present.

TOWN MODERATOR. Gary Speiss, Town Moderator, appeared before the Board to
announce that he will not run for Town Moderator in the 2022 elections. He thanked the
Board for their support and looks forward to continuting to serve the Town in some
capacity. The Board thanked the Moderator and wished him well.

LICENSING. All Alcoholic Beverage License(s). The Board placed legal
advertisment on December 22, 2021 seeking interested applicants for (2) available All
alcoholic beverage license with a deadline to apply before January 13, 2022. 3
applications were filed with the Board: Nine Lives Restaurant Group, LLC d/b/a Sea
Salt, 126 Washington Street, Blue Hair LLC d/b/a B&B Fish, 195 Pleasant Street and
Drexell Inc. d/b/a/ The Hidden Door, 259 Washington Street. Legal ads were placed for
all 3 applications in the Marblehead Reporter.
PUBLIC HEARING. Licensing. Change of Category. Nine Lives Restaurant
Group, LLC. d/b/a/ Sea Salt. 126 Washington Street. Scott and Emily Brankman
appeared before the Board seeking a Change of Category from the current Wine/Malt
with Cordials License to an All Alcoholic Beverage License at 126 Washington Street.
No one spoke opposed to the applicant, one person spoke in favor of the applicant. The
Chair closed this portion of the public hearing
PUBLIC HEARING. Licensing. New. All Alcoholic Beverage License. Blue Hair
LLC, d/b/a B&B Fish. Attorney Paul Lynch appeared on behalf of B&B Fish, 195
Pleasant Street, seeking an All Alcoholic Beverage License. No one spoke opposed or in
favor of the applicant. The Chair closed this portion of the public hearing.
PUBLIC HEARING. Licensing. New. All Alcoholic Beverage License. Drexell,
Inc., d/b/a The Hidden Door. Todd Horwath appeared before the Board seeking an All
Alcoholic Beverage License for Drexell Inc. d/b/a The Hidden Door, 259 Washington



March 1, 2022                             23
Street. No one spoke opposed, one resident spoke in favor of the applicant. The Chair
closed this portion of the public hearing.
The Board reviewed and discussed the 3 applications and took the following votes:
Nine Lives Resuarant Group, LLC d/b/a Sea Salt. 126 Washington Street. Change
of Category. Motion made and seconded to approve the application as presented from
Nine Lives Restaurant Group, d/b/a Sea Salt, 126 Washington Street, for a Change of
Category to upgrade the current Wine/Malt Beverage License w/Cordials to an All-
Alcoholic Beverage License, subject to approval from the ABCC, receipt of all applicable
sign offs, all fees paid and CORI approval. Upon approval from ABCC Nine Lives
Restaurant Group will surrender the Wine/Malt with Cordials Beverage License that they
currently hold. Moved by Mrs. Singer, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor, Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.
Drexell Inc., d/b/a The Hidden Door. 259 Washington Street. Common Victualler
License. Motion made and seconded to approve the application for a Common Vitualler
License from Drexell Inc., d/b/a The Hidden Door, 259 Washington Street, Unit 4.
Manager, Todd Horvath Seating Capacity = 42. Hours of operation will be Monday -
Friday 4:00 PM – 11:00 PM, Saturday and Sundays 11:00 AM – 11:00 PM, subject to
approval from the ABCC, receipt of all applicable inspection sign offs ,all fees paid.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor, Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.
Drexell Inc., d/b/a The Hidden Door. 259 Wasington Street. All Alcoholic Beverage
License. Motion made and seconded to amend and approve the application from Drexell
Inc., d/b/a The Hidden Door, 259 Washington Street, Unit 4 for an annual All Alcoholic
Beverage License. Manager, Todd Horvath, Seating Capacity = 42. Hours of operation
will be Monday - Friday 4:00 PM – 11:00 PM, Saturday and Sundays 11:00 AM – 11:00
PM, subject to approval from the ABCC, receipt of all applicable inspection sign offs, all
fees paid and CORI approval and proof of TIPS or equivalent certification. Moved by
Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs.
Singer, in favor, Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs.
Belf-Becker, in favor.
Blue Hair LLC d/b/a B&B Fish. 195 Pleasant Street. Wine Malt w. Cordials
Beverage License. Motion made and seconded to amend and approve the application
from Blue Hair LLC, d/b/a B&B Fish, 195 Pleasant Street, for a Wine/Malt with Cordials
Beverage License. Manager, Jason Santos. Seating Capacity = 22. Hours of operation
will be Monday - Friday 4:00 PM – 11:00 PM, Monday through Saturday and Sundays
11:00 AM – 9:00 PM, subject to approval from the ABCC, receipt of all applicable
inspection sign offs, all fees paid and CORI approval and proof of TIPS or equivalent
certification. Upon approval from ABCC Blue Hair Fish will surrender the Carry In
License they currently hold. The Interim Town Adminsitrator noted that the application
was not advertised for outdoor seating and can be remedied by readvertising and coming
back to the Board for approval. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor, Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.




March 1, 2022                              24
PUBLIC HEARING. Transfer, All Alcoholic Beverage License. 261 Washington
Street. Pikilia Inc. d/b/a A Taste of Greece. Merneysa Rivera-Bujosa, Esq. and Klevis
Qyrasi, , 94 Birch Street, Peabody, appeared before the Board seeking to transfer the All
Alcoholic Beverage License as a common victualler, and a Common Victualler License
at 261 Washington Street. The current owner of this license is Scalzi Corporation d/b/a
Casa Mia. No one spoke in favor or opposed to the applicant. Motion made and
seconded to approve the application for a Common Victualler License for Pikilia Inc.,
d/b/a A Taste of Greece, 261 Washington Street, Manager Klevis Qyrasi, hours of
operation Monday through Sunday 11:00am – 12:00 midnight subject to receipt of all
applicable inspection sign offs and all fees paid. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr.
Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor, Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.
Transfer. All Alcoholic Beverage License. Pikilia Inc. 261 Washington Street.
Motion made and seconded to approve the transfer of the All Alcoholic Beverage License
from Scalzi Corporation, d/b/a Casa Mia, to Pikilia Inc. d/b/a A Taste of Greece, 261
Washington Street, Manager, Klevis Qyrasi, hours of operation Monday through Sunday
11:00am – 12:00 midnight, subject to approval from the ABCC, Cori approval and
receipt of all applicable inspection sign offs and all fees paid and proof of TIPS or
equivalent certification. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote
the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor, Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Friends of Marblehead Public Schools.
Motion made and seconded to approve the request from Nora Connerty, Friends of
Marblehead Public Schools, for a one-day liquor license on Saturday, June 18, 2022 from
6:30 p.m. – 9:30 p.m. at 8 Manley Street for the annual Summer Soiree subject to the
following conditions:
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
     Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased/supplied by Kappy’s Importing. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in
favor, Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

PERMISSION TO USE. Abbot Hall and Old Town House. Festival of Arts.
Motion made and seconded to approve the request from Rosann Steinig, Secretary,
Marblehead Festival of Arts, to use the following venues for the Marblehead Festival of
Arts July 4th events in June and July subject approval from Police, Fire, Recreation and
Parks, fees, and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance:
Fort Sewall, Champagne Festival
    Saturday, June 26, 2022 (set up) 9:00 am – 5:00 pm
    Sunday, June 27, 2022 (set up and Reception) 9:00 am – 9:00 pm


March 1, 2022                              25
     Monday, June 28, 2022 (breakdown) 8:00 am to finish
Abbot Hall and Old Town House / Artisans Marketplace/exhibits
     July 1 – 4, 2022 – hours to be determined
Street Festival – Monday, July 4, 2022, 11:30 am – 3:30 pm. Use of and closure of
Washington Street from Rockaway Street to Darling Street, allowing foot traffic only, for
a family street party with performing art and children’s’ activities. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in
favor, Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker,
in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Festival of Arts. Champagne Reception.
Motion made and seconded to approve the request from Festival of Arts for a one-day
liquor license on Sunday, June 26, 2022 from 4:30 p.m. – 7:30 p.m. at Fort Sewall for the
Champagne Festival subject to the following conditions:
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
     Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
     Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.
     Alcohol is not allowed to be stored overnight on the premises
Alcohol will be provided by Kappy’s Importing. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader.
On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor, Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

AGREEMENT. Private Connection to Town Drainage. Motion made and seconded
to approve the License Agreement for a Private Connection to Town Drainage System
between the Town and David Wiley, 20 Lincoln Avenue as presented, and authorize the
Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor, Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

AGREEMENT. Private Connection to Town Drainage. Moiton made and seconded
to approve the License Agreement for a Private Connection to Town Drainage System
between the Town and Thomas and Ann Murtagh, 11 Nahant Street, as presented, and
authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs.
Noonan. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor, Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

AGREEMENT. Private Connection to Town Drainage MOTION to approve the
License Agreement for a Private Connection to Town Drainage System between the
Town and John and Janet Mahar, 54 Pickwick Road, as presented, and authorize the
Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor, Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.




March 1, 2022                                  26
PERMISSION TO USE. Fort Sewall. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Haley Bernatas and Marco Forziati to hold a wedding ceremony at Fort
Sewall on September 2, 2023 subject to the rules, regulations, fees and receipt of the
required Certificate of Insurance. The requests to block parking and for a 1-day liquor
license are denied. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Nye. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor, Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

CONGRATULATIONS. 90th Birthday. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of
congratulations to Betty Hunt, former Town Historian, in honor of her 90th birthday.
Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor, Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in
favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

UPDATE. Video Conferencing. The Interim Town Administrator reported that Valley
Communicaitons will be commencing the retrofit and installation of video conferencing
equipment, to allow for hybrid meetings, at Mary Alley and Abbot Hall the week of
March 7th.

CONDOLENCE. The Board acknowledged with sadness the passing of Ted Peach.

BUDGET. The Interim Town Administrator reviewed the time line for the budget
process in response to a question from a resident.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:05 p.m. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by
Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mrs.
Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.



                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

List of documents used:
Liquor License Applications:
Sea Salt/ B&B Fish/The Hidden Door/ Pikilia Inc.
Request. 1 day liquor license. Friends of Marblehead Public Schools
Request. Festival of Arts. Use of Public Building/property
Agreement(s) private connection to Town Drainage System:
54 Pickwick Road/ 12 Lincoln / 11 Nahant
Draft letter to Gannette New England
Request Fort Sewall wedding
Request – Birthday celebration




March 1, 2022                              27
