                                   SELECT BOARD

                                       MINUTES

                                    October 12, 2022

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall and via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                               M. C. Moses Grader, Chair
                                  Jackie Belf-Becker
                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                     James E. Nye
                                    Alexa J. Singer

                       Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Adminstrator

HOLOCAUST REMEMBRANCE DAY. Proclamation. Helaine Hazlett, co-chair,
Task Force against Discrimination, appeared before the Board seeking the Boards vote
for an annual Holocaust proclamation. Motion made and seconded to proclaim, annually,
January 27 as “Holocaust Remembrance Day” and to sign the proclamation as prepared.
All in favor.

AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN ACT (ARPA). Projects. The Town Administrator and
Select Board chair presented a PowerPoint on the ARPA spending plan for the Town.
After review, motion made and seconded to formally approve the use of federal ARPA
Funds for the following purposes and amounts: Administrative ARPA Implementation
Staffing Support, $150,000; Equip Meeting Spaces with Hybrid Technology-Schools,
$5,700; Mental health treatment, resources, supports ($200,000); Reduction in Revenue
Amount Funding ($584,142); Administrative ARPA Implementation Staffing Support
($150,000). All in favor. (This vote is revised by the Board at the end of their meeting).

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of September 28, 2022.
All in favor.

AGREEMENT. Private Connection to Town Drainage. Motion made and seconded
to approve the License Agreement for a Private Connection to Town Drainage System
between the Town and Margaret Schrage, 45 Lincoln Avenue as presented, and authorize
the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

GIFT TO TOWN. Rotary Club of Marblehead. Hancock Clock. Motion made and
seconded to accept, as a gift to the Town, a two-dial Hancock clock, from the Rotary
Club of Marblehead in honor of their 100th Anniversary in April 2023, and to have the
Town Administrator coordinate with departments the location and installation. All in
favor. Motion made and seconded to send a letter thanking the Rotary Club of
Marblehead for their gift to the Town. All in favor.



October 12, 2022                           112
PERMISSION TO USE. Abbot Hall. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from the Festival of Arts to use Abbot Hall for their annual Artisan’s Marketplace
on the following days and to use the upper grounds of Abbot Hall to display five ice
sculptures, all in accordance with the usual rules, regulations, fees and receipt of the
required Certificate of Insurance:
Friday, December 2, 2022       5:30 p.m. – 8:30 p.m.
Saturday, December 3, 2022 7:00 a.m. – 5:30 p.m.
Sunday, December 4, 2022 9:00 a.m.- 6:00 p.m.
All in favor.

CONTRACT. Lead Mills Rail Trail. Toole Design. Motion made and seconded to
award the contract for the Lead Mills Rail Trail Project to Toole Design of Boston, MA
in the amount of one hundred and fifty thousand and eight hundred dollars ($150,800.00)
and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board All in favor.

POLICE DEPARTMENT. Hearing Request. Motion, on advice from Town Counsel,
to appoint Thatcher Kezer, Town Administrator, as Hearing Officer, as it relates to
pending disciplinary matters involving Officer Christopher Gallo, and to report his
findings back to the Board. All in favor.

AMERICAN RESCUE ACT PLAN. Revise vote. The Board reviewed the previous
ARPA vote taken and made the following motion to correct this vote: Motion made and
seconded to formally approve the use of federal ARPA Funds for the following purposes
and amounts: Administrative ARPA Implementation Staffing Support, $150,000; Equip
Meeting Spaces with Hybrid Technology-Schools, $5,700; Mental health treatment,
resources, supports ($200,000); Reduction in Revenue Amount Funding ($584,142);
Information Booth Supplemental Funding ($6,311). All in favor.

PUBLIC COMMENT
  • Dan Albert addressed the Board regarding the speed limits on Leggs Hill Road
     and requesting that Town reduce speed to 25.
  • Sarah Fox addressed the Board relating to ARPA discussion and the re-
     prioritization that came out in April concerning “learning loss” and urged the
     Board as they move forward prioritizing and approving projects that they look at
     what other towns/communities are doing.

The Chair advised the Board that he is speaking with the Fair Housing Committee and
will bring forward to the Board a proposal for restructuring said committee at a future
meeting.

TOWN ADMINSTRATOR UPDATE.
  • Finance Director search. Town Administrator is hopeful he will be making a
    recommendation to the Board soon.
  • EPlus technician is on board with the Town providing IT support.



October 12, 2022                           113
    •   ADA Transition Grant. The Town received a Community Compact Grant to
        update our ADA Transition Plan. A kickoff meeting with the Collins Center and
        Department Heads will be held at the end of the month.
    •   Pleasant Street project update.
    •   Red’s Pond. Town Administrator is working with Amy McHugh and the DPW
        on a temporary fix to the sidewalk around the pond while the Town researches a
        more permeant fix.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:20 p.m. All in favor.

                                          Kyle A. Wiley
                                          Administrative Aide


List of documents used:
Holocaust proclamation
ARPA power point
Minutes September 28, 2022
License Agreement, 45 Lincoln Avenue
Letter from Rotary Club re gift to town
Festival of Arts request for Abbot Hall




October 12, 2022                               114
