                                  SELECT BOARD

                                      MINUTES

                                  November 7, 2022

Board met in HYBRID session at 11:00 a.m. at Abbot Hall and via ZOOM Conferencing
The following members were present constituting a quorum:

                               M. C. Moses Grader, Chair
                                  Jackie Belf-Becker
                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                     James E. Nye
                                    Alexa J. Singer

                                 Thatcher W. Kezer III

CLEARGOV. Presentation. Budgeting Software. Vinny Petracca, Market
Development Executive, ClearGov, appeared before the Board, via Zoom, to provide an
overview and demonstration of ClearGov’s cloud-based budget and performance
management software. The software operates using five basic modules: Capital
Budgeting, Personnel Budgeting, Operational Budgeting, Digital Budget Book and
Transparency. The software avoids the hassles of collecting and collating various
spreadsheets and maintaining version control through the budget process. The Town
Administrator noted that ClearGov is a more user-friendly option for all the various
participants that will use the software. One of the key components of the software is its
ability to produce a GFOA compliant budget document, allowing staff to focus on the
content to be provided with the software handling the formatting and professional looking
presentation. Questions were asked by the Board. Motion made and seconded to award a
contract to ClearGov for budgeting software in the amount of twenty-eight thousand four
hundred thirty-three and 33/100 ($28,433.33), year one prorated, and authorize the Chair
to sign the contract on behalf of the Board. All in favor. The annual amount for the
remainder of the contract is thirty-six thousand four hundred and 00/100 ($36,400). Alec
Goolsby, Finance Committee Chair, and Pat Franklin, Vice Chair, expressed the Finance
Committee’s support with the Town’s decision to move to ClearGov.

RESERVE FUND TRANSFER. Selectmen. Budget Software. Motion made and
seconded to authorize the Town Administrator to appear before the Finance Committee to
request the transfer of the sum of twenty-eight thousand four hundred thirty-three and
33/100 ($28,433.33) from the Reserve Fund in accordance with chapter 40, section 6 of
the Massachusetts General Laws for software licensing. All in favor.

CONDOLENCE. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of condolence to the
family of David Riordan. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 11:41 a.m. All in favor.



November 7, 2022                          120
                               Kyle A. Wiley
                               Administrative Aide


List of documents used:
November 4, 2022, Procurement Memorandum
November 11, 2022 ClearGov Contract




November 7, 2022                    121
