                             BOARD OF SELECTMEN

                                      MINUTES

                                    June 15, 2022

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 pm. At Abbot Hall and via ZOOM Conferencing
Present (constituting a quorum):

                               Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair
                                   Erin M. Noonan
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     James E. Nye
                                    Alexa J. Singer

                      Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of June 15, 2022 to order. All members of the Board are
participating in person.

LYNN SHELTER. Fundraiser. Mr. Nye read an announcement from the Marblehead
Ministerial Association about an upcoming fundraiser on Saturday, June 25, 2022 at the
PAC, 217 Pleasant Street, by the Lynn Shelter Association to build a new emergency
shelter.

LICENSING. Drink Station. 146 Washington Street. Common Victualler License.
Daniel Laing appeared before the Board seeking a Common Vicutaller License. Motion
made and seconded to approve the application for a Common Victualler License for LW
Brother LLC d/b/a Drink Station, 146 Washington Street, hours of operation Monday
through Sunday 11:00am – 8:00 p.m. subject to receipt of all applicable inspection sign
offs and all fees paid. Seating capacity = 22. All in favor.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of May 18, and May 25,
2022. All in favor.

BELL RINGING. July 4th. Motion made and seconded to request that church bells
throughout the Town be rung on Monday, July 4, 2022 at the usual holiday hours: 7:30
a.m. to 8:00 a.m. / 12:00 noon to 12:30 p.m. / 6:00 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. All in favor.

DEBT EXCLUSION OVERRIDE. The Board discussed the upcoming debt exclusion
override on June 21, 2022. No votes were taken.

LICENSING. 1 Day Liquor License. Bubble Bar Boston. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Mari Tilkens, Bubble Bar Boston, for a one-day
liquor licenses for Monday, August 15, 2022 from 5:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.at the 199




June 15, 2022                             73
Washington Street for the Marblehead Democratic Committee summer picnic subject to
the following conditions:
       Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50.)
       Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
be purchased from an authorized source.
       Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the requirements of
G. L. c. 138.
Alcohol will be purchased from Martignetti’s. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mrs.
Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Nye, in favor. Mr. Grader, in
favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, present; Mrs. Belf-Becker, in favor.

PURCHASE AGREEMENT. Pierce Dash 1500 GPM Pumper. Chief Gilliland
appeared before the Board as it relates to the purchase agreement for the Pierce Dash
1500 GPM Pumper that was approved at Annual Town Meeting. Motion made and
seconded to approve the Purchase Agreement between the Town and Allegiance Fire &
Rescue for partial refurbishment of Pierce Dash 1500 GPM Pumper in the amount of one
hundred thirty thousand nine hundred and ninety-one and 00/100 ($130,991.00) and
authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

FORT SEWALL. Festival of Arts. Tent. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from the Festival of Arts to erect a tent for the annual Champagne Festival on
Sunday, June 26, 2022 subject to the required permits and Certificate of Liability. All in
favor.

ABBOT HALL. Permission to Use. Marblehead Cultural Council. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request form Holly Aloha Jaynes, Marblehead Cultural
Council, to use Abbot Hall on Saturday, October 8, 2022 in celebration of the fourth
Indigenous People’s Day for a program titled “Northeast Woodlands” subject to the usual
rules and regulations and to waive the rental fee for this event. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Police Station. Exterior Painting. Motion made and seconded to award
the contract for police station exterior paint to John Skouras & Co Inc. of Peabody, MA
in the amount of twelve thousand four hundred Dollars ($12,400.00) and authorize the
Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Computer Services. Motion made and seconded to award the contract
for computer services to ePlus of Canton, MA in the amount of $216,938.00 and
authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board. The Board had a lengthy
discussion regarding this contract and asked questions. 3 voted in favor. Mrs. Noonan
and Mrs. Singer abstained. Motion passed.

CONTRACT. Amend. MJS Construction. Tourist Booth. Motion made and
seconded to amend the contract between the Town and MJS Construction of Danvers by
increasing the contract amount by five thousand nine hundred and two 65/100 dollars
($5,902.65) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All in favor.


June 15, 2022                               74
PARKING RESTRICTIONS. Abbot Hall. Election Day. Motion made and
seconded to amend the recurring approval to restrict parking at Election locations on all
Election days in Town, by including Abbot Hall as follows: “VOTER PARKING
ONLY” at 188 Washington Street beginning at the driveway entrance and continue to
Washington Square. Parking will only be restricted as needed during regular business
hours and will be returned to general use as soon as it is deemed the restrictions are no
longer needed. All in favor.

FORT BEACH. Minor Activity Permit. Motion made and seconded to approve the
Minor Activity Permit for Fort Sewall Lane, near Fort Beach, at no cost to the Town and
authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

HARBORS AND WATERS BOARD. Letters of Interest. Letters of interest to serve
on the Harbors and Waters Board were received from Steven Wolf and Stefan
Thibodeaux.

CULTURAL COUNCIL. Letter of Interest. A letter of interest to serve on the
Cultural Council was received from Rose Gould.

CUB SCOUT PACK 11. A letter was received from Blake Jackson, Cubmaster Pack 11
and Cristy Hebert, Committee Chair Pack 11, highlighting the many activities Pack 11
have organized and participated in over the last 2 years.

WATER AND SEWER. Rate Hearing. Notification was received notifying the Board
that the Water and Sewer Commission’s annual Rate Setting hearing will be held on
Thursday, June 30, 2022 at the Commission office at 100 Tower Way, Building #11 at
7:00 p.m. All interested residents are invited.

Mark Pelletier addressed the Board as it related to the IT Contract the Board voted
earlier.

Steven Wolf addressed the Board as it relates to his letter of interest to serve on the
Harbors and Waters Board.

Lena Robinson, Marblehead Beacon, addressed the Board with questions related to the
Clifton Larson Audit and the IT Contract.

The Board further discussed the IT Contract voted earlier in their meeting. After
discussion the Chair moved to amend the vote to postpone taking a vote until the Board’s
next meeting on June 22, 2022 and to ask representatives from ePlus to attend their
meeting to answer the Boards questions. All in favor.

ARTICLE 31, LEAF BLOWERS. Mr. Nye read the following statement regarding
enforcement of Article 31: all actions of Town Meeting that amend the Town's By-laws



June 15, 2022                                75
must be reviewed and approved by the Massachusetts Attorney General's office before
they can take effect. The Town Clerk has 30 days from when Town Meeting ends to
submit any actions of Town Meeting to the Attorney General's Office. Once the Attorney
General's office receives the changes, they have 90 days to respond to the Town, they can
also extend this 90-period depending on their workload with other matters

Jocelyn Cook addressed the Board regarding appointments to the various Boards and
Committees.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:44 p.m. All in favor.



                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

List of documents used:
Application for Common Victualler License, Drink Station
Request for 1 day liquor license – Bubble Bar Boston
Purchase Agreement – Pierce Dash 1500 GPM Pumper
FoArts request for Tent
Abbot Hall, request to use from Cultural Council
ePlus documents
letter from Chief King regarding parking restrictions at Abbot Hall
Minor Activity Permit – Fort Sewall Lane
Letters of Interest:
Steven Wolf
Stefan Thibodeau
Rose Gould
Cub Scout Pack 11 update
Water and Sewer Rate Hearing notice




June 15, 2022                              76
