                                  SELECT BOARD

                                      MINUTES

                                      May 9, 2024

Board met in HYBRID session at 9:45 a.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street
The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                               M. C. Moses Grader, Chair
                                    Bret T. Murray
                                    Alexa J. Singer

                      Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of May 9, 2024 to order.

FINANCE. Bond Anticipation Notes. (BANS). Cami Iannarelli, Town Treasurer,
appeared before the Board seeking approval on recent BAN sales. The following votes
were taken:

Motion made and seconded to approve the sale of $2,312,000 4.00 percent General
Obligation Bond Anticipation Notes (the “Notes”) of the Town dated May 16, 2024, and
payable May 15, 2025, to Fidelity Capital Markets, a division of National Financial
Services LLC at par and accrued interest, if any, plus a premium of $6,496.72. All in
favor.

Motion made and seconded that in connection with the marketing and sale of the Notes,
the preparation and distribution of a Notice of Sale and Preliminary Official Statement
dated April 23, 2024, and a final Official Statement dated April 30, 2024, each in such
form as may be approved by the Town Treasurer, be and hereby are ratified, confirmed,
approved and adopted.

Motion made and seconded that the Town Treasurer and the Select Board be, and hereby
are, authorized to execute and deliver a significant events disclosure undertaking in
compliance with SEC Rule 15c2-12 in such form as may be approved by bond counsel to
the Town, which undertaking shall be incorporated by reference in the Notes for the
benefit of the holders of the Notes from time to time.

Motion made and seconded that we authorize and direct the Town Treasurer to establish
post issuance federal tax compliance procedures and continuing disclosure procedures in
such forms as the Town Treasurer and bond counsel deem sufficient, or if such
procedures are currently in place, to review and update said procedures, in order to
monitor and maintain the tax-exempt status of the Notes and to comply with relevant
securities laws.




May 9, 2024                                46
Motion made and seconded that any certificates or documents relating to the Notes
(collectively, the “Documents”), may be executed in several counterparts, each of which
shall be regarded as an original and all of which shall constitute one and the same
document; delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to a Document by
electronic mail in a “.pdf” file or by other electronic transmission shall be as effective as
delivery of a manually executed counterpart signature page to such Document; and
electronic signatures on any of the Documents shall be deemed original signatures for the
purposes of the Documents and all matters relating thereto, having the same legal effect
as original signatures.

Motion made and seconded that each member of the Select Board, the Town Clerk and
the Town Treasurer be and hereby are, authorized to take any and all such actions, and
execute and deliver such certificates, receipts or other documents as may be determined
by them, or any of them, to be necessary or convenient to carry into effect the provisions
of the foregoing votes.

PUBLIC COMMENT. None

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR UPDATE. The Town Administrator updated the Board as
follows:
With the Budget passed we will be posting/advertising for current, or soon to be, vacant
positions such as Town Planner, Veterans Agent, Electrical Inspector, to name a few.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS. On behalf of the Board, the Chair thanked
everyone who submitted an application to serve on the Town Charter Committee.
The Chair recognized Aleesha Benjamin, CFO, and the Finance Department for the Town
receiving the Government Finance Officers Association (GFOA) Distinguished Service
Award.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:00 a.m. All in favor.



                                      Kyle A. Wiley
                                      Administrative Aide


List of documents used:
BAN Results




May 9, 2024                                  47
