                                   SELECT BOARD

                                       MINUTES

                                    October 23, 2024

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street
The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                        Dan Fox
                                   M. C. Moses Grader

                       Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of October 23, 2024 to order. This meeting is being
recorded.

PUBLIC COMMENT. Albert Jordan addressed the Board regarding public
participation at Finance Committee meetings and wasted lighted energy around town
(Library).

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR UPDATE. The Town Administrator advised the Board on
the following grants the Town has received:
    • Coastal Resilience Grant: State Street Landing and Harbormaster’s/Tucker Wharf
        Resilience Project in the amount of $210,502.
    • MassWorks Infrastructure Grant: Five Corners Intersection and School Street
        Parking Lot Redesign in the amount of $135,500.
    • Community Planning Grant: Marblehead Comprehensive Master Plan Update in
        the amount of $130,000.

VETERANS DAY. Roseann Trionfi-Mazzuchelli, Veterans Agent, appeared before the
Board to announce, and invite, the Select Board to the annual Veteran’s Day Ceremony at
Abbot Hall, November 11, 2024, at 10:00 a.m.

CULTURAL COUNCIL. Interview. Appointment. Joe Dipoli appeared before the
Board as it relates to serving on the Cultural Council. Motion made and seconded to
appoint Joe Dipoli to the Cultural Council with a term to expire in June 2026. All in
favor.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS. Motion made and seconded to approve the following
Consent Agenda items except those put-on hold for discussion:

OLD TOWN HOUSE, Old Marblehead Improvement Association annual meeting,
January 12, 2025, and to serve light refreshments and wine, at no cost, subject to the
usual rules, regulations, fees and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance naming

the Town of Marblehead as an additionally insured, Liquor Liability Coverage and to
waive the rental fee for this event.

HARBORMASTER request to declare surplus items as follows and no longer needed
for municipal purpose and available for disposition in accordance with MGL Chapter
30B and the Town’s policy on surplus equipment: 2005 31 ft Eastern Casco Bay patrol
vessel, Stacey Clark.

REAPPOINTMENT, Registrar of Voters, Anthony Chamay with a term to expire in
June 2027.

LICENSE AGREEMENT for Private Connection to Town Drainage System
between the Town and Christopher Crawford and Jim and Jane Hubert, 1 Mason Street,
as presented, and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board.

RIGHT OF ENTRY AGREEMENT between the Town and 7 Cherry Street for the
Town to access the driveway at 7 Cherry Street for the purpose of pruning a town shade
trade as set forth in the agreement and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board.
All in favor.

GRANT AWARD. State Street Landing and Harbormaster’s/Tuckers Wharf.
Motion made and seconded to accept the grant award from the Massachusetts Executive
Office of Energy & Environmental Affairs for the State Street Landing and
Harbormaster's/Tucker's Wharf Resilience Project in the amount of two hundred ten
thousand, five hundred and two dollars and 00/100 ($210,502.00) and to authorize the
Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE. Letters of Interest. The Board is seeking
letters of interest and resumes to serve on the Capital Planning Committee. There are
three at large vacancies. Submit letters on interest by December 6, 2024, to Select Board,
Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street, Marblehead or email wileyk@marblehead.org.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS. Mr. Grader said he has spoken with the
Task Force Against Discrimination and Rabbis in Town who have expressed concern
with the anniversary of Gaza and the recent antisemitic graffiti down at Seaside Park.
Mr. Grader read a letter he sent to the Task Force and Rabbis expressing his support and
hope for enduring peace for all. Chief King addressed the Board stating the cameras are
back up and running at Seaside Park, serving as both a deterrent and reminder that the
Town will not tolerate such acts.

The Chair announce that October is Domestic Awareness Month, and that Chief King has
stated that as a community we officially recognize domestic violence month as a way to
show support to those who have been victims in the past or are in abusive relationships
now, and ultimately to provide reassurance that they are safe and supported to come
forward if they haven’t already.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 7:35 p.m. All in favor.

                                    Kyle A. Wiley
                                    Administrative Aide

List of documents used: Resumes; Joe Dipoli/ OMIA request for Old Town
House/Harbormaster request to declare surplus/ltr from Republican Town
Committee/License agreement, 1 Mason Street/ROE 7 Cherry Street.

