                                   SELECT BOARD

                                       MINUTES

                                      May 6, 2024

Board met in session at 6:45 p.m. at the Veterans Middle School, PAC, Pleasant Street
The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                 Erin M. Noonan, Chair
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     Bret T. Murray
                                      James E. Nye
                                     Alexa J. Singer

                      Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of May 6, 2024 to order.

CONTRACT. The Board reviewed contracts and the following votes were taken:

HAMMOND PARK. Collins Engineers Inc. Motion made and seconded to amend the
contract between Collins Engineers Inc, and the Town for the Marblehead Municipal
Shipyard Improvements Project. This amendment will increase the work scope to include
Final Design, Bid and Construction Phase Services to provide pedestrian access to
Hammond Park including demolition of bed rock, new sidewalk with ADA ramp,
increased street width and a pedestrian walkway. This amendment will increase the
contract in the amount of Twenty Thousand Nine Hundred Twenty dollars and 00/100
($20,920.00) and authorize the Chair to sign the Change Order on behalf of the
Board. All in favor.

MBTA COMMUNITIES. Bohler. Motion made and seconded to approve the contract
between the Town and Bohler for Professional Engineering Services, Technical
Assistance, MBTA Communities, in the amount not to exceed three thousand and 00/100
dollars ($3,000.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

The Board continued in session at Annual Town Meeting

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:10 p.m. All in favor.

                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

List of documents used: Collins Engineer /Bohler ContractsContracts:

