                                   SELECT BOARD
                                      MINUTES

                                     August 2, 2024

Board met in HYBRID session at 11:00 a.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street
The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                     Erin M. Noonan
                                     Bret T. Murray
                                     Alexis J. Singer

                       Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of August 2, 2024 to order. This meeting is being recorded.

HYBRID MEETING NOTICE. The Chair noted that the Board has moved to a
Webinar format for their meetings and for those who are logged in online you will still be
able to watch and hear the meeting as usual and at Public Comment the Chair will ask
anyone online to raise their hand if they wish to be recognized by the Chair.

POLICE DEPARTMENT. Request for Disciplinary Hearing. The Board reviewed a
request from Chief Dennis King to appoint a hearing officer for a disciplinary hearing.
Motion made and seconded to appoint the Town Administrator hearing officer for a
police disciplinary matter. All in favor.

GRANT. Cybersecurity Risk Program. Motion made and seconded to authorize the
Town Administrator to sign a grant contract to assist local communities in strengthening
cybersecurity while reducing systemic cyber risk from the Municipal Local Cybersecurity
Grant Program. All in favor.

POLICE DEPARTMENT. Request for Offer of Employment. Chief King appeared
before the Board with Gregory Arustamyan requesting the Board to vote a conditional
offer of employment. Gregory told the Board a bit about himself, and the Chief reviewed
the process and timeline with the Board as it relates to getting a new recruit on Board and
thanked the Board for always accommodating his requests. Motion made and seconded
to make a conditional offer of employment to Gregory Arustamyan as permanent full
time police officer for the Town of Marblehead conditioned on his successful completion
of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Physical Abilities Test; a complete physical
examination, and psychological examination, to be conducted by the Town’s physician
and a psychiatrist/psychologist of the Town’s choosing, effective September 9, 2024 or
the first date of an eligible police academy. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 11:10 a.m. All in favor.

                                      Kyle A. Wiley, Administrative Aide



August 2, 2024                             101
List of documents used: Memo from Town Administrator and Police Chief regarding request for
disciplinary hearing / Municipal Cybersecurity Grant program notice of award / Police Chief letter seeking
conditional employment




August 2, 2024                                     102
