                                    SELECT BOARD

                                        MINUTES

                                       June 12, 2024

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington
Street The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                     Erin M. Noonan
                                         Dan Fox
                                    M. C. Moses Grader
                                      Alexa J. Singer

                       Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Town Administrator called the meeting of June 12, 2024 to order noting that this is
the 376th annual convening of the Select Board for the Town of Marblehead. This
meeting is being recorded.

CHAIRMAN. The Town Administrator noted the first order of business is to nominate a
Chair for the upcoming year and then asked for nominations. Mr. Grader nominated Mrs.
Noonan, seconded by Mrs. Singer. There were no other nominations. All in favor.

LAND ACKNOWLDEGEMENT. The Chair read to the Town of Marblehead’s Land
Acknowledgement.

CONTRACT. Police Station Floor. SOEP Painting Corporation. Motion made and
seconded to award a contract between the Town and SOEP Painting Corporation in the
amount of twenty-three thousand three hundred sixty-five and 00/100 ($23,365) for resinous
floor coating and improvements to the police station male cell block area. All in favor.

SELECTBOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS. Mr. Grader congratulated and welcomed Mr.
Fox to the Board. Mr. Fox expressed his gratitude and looks forward to working with the
Board. Mrs. Noonan thanked the Board for their support and the opportunity to serve
another year as Chair.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 7:08 p.m. All in favor.


                                      Kyle A. Wiley
                                      Administrative Aide


List of documents used: Town of Marblehead’s Land Acknowledgment/ SOEP Painting
Corporation draft contract



June 12, 2024                                65
