                                   SELECT BOARD

                                       MINUTES

                                    January 10, 2024

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall and via ZOOM Conferencing
The following members were present constituting a quorum:

                          M. C. Moses Grader, Chair Pro-Tem
                                   Bret T. Murray
                                    James E. Nye
                                    Alexa Singer

                       Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of January 10, 2024 to order. This meeting is being
recorded.

TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION. Interview/Appointment. Rebecca
Herve-Lorenze appeared before the Board as it relates to serving on the Task Force
Against Discrimination, Student Representative. Motion made and seconded to appoint
Rebecca Herve -Lorenzo to the Task Force against Discrimination, Student
Representative, with a term to expire in June 2024. All in favor.

APPOINTMENT. Human Resources Director. Thomas Howard appeared before the
Board as it relates to the position of Human Resources Director. Motion made and
seconded to appoint Thomas Howard as Human Resource Director with a term to expire
in June 2024. All in favor.

MASSACHUSETS BAY TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION (MBTA). 3A Multi
Family Zoning. Rebecca Currant Cutting, Town Planner, appeared before the Board to
make a presentation regarding the MBTA 3A Multi Family Zoning Mandate which
requires communities to zone for “at least one district of reasonable size in which multi-
family housing is permitted as of right”. 177 communities in the Commonwealth are
included and Marblehead is classified as an Adjacent Community (adjacent communities
are those that are adjacent to municipalities that contact MBTA stations). Ms. Cutting
reviewed the State mandate with the Board as well as the current zoning districts in the
Town and zoning bylaws. The Town, through its Planning Board, has been diligently
working on identifying stakeholders, soliciting community input, looking at model
bylaws, meeting with various boards, department heads and business owners, holding
public hearings and a virtual week-long open house, to develop a draft plan to present to
the community which Town Meeting will ultimately vote on in May.

PERAMBULATION OF PUBLIC WAYS. Town Planner. Rebecca Cutting, Town
Planner, appeared before the Board to give a brief overview of the Town’s Annual
Perambulation of the Public Ways. There are a number of ways dating back to colonial
days that exist in Marblehead. Some ways are hundreds of years old and can be traced
back to fishing and a way to reach the water. Some offer views of the water, connect one
street to another or a little path that may look like a private yard. There are 10 public
ways on the Neck and 8 in the Downtown area. The act of walking the ways reasserts the
public’s rights and prevents claims that the easement has been abandoned. Many
communities host annual “perambulation” days on which members of the community
walk the public footpaths to reassert public rights. Marblehead has conducted periodic
“perambulation” of these ways with the help of the town engineer and staff and publicly
notifying interested citizens to come walk the ways. Marblehead Conservancy has taken
on this task for several years and has now turned this back over to the Select Board. The
Town Planner recommends the Annual Perambulation be held the Saturday after Town
Meeting at 10:00 a.m., alternating years to walk the Neck and Downtown areas. The
Board thanked Ms. Cutting for the presentation and will move forward with the Annual
Perambulation on May 11, 2024.

PUBLIC HEARING. LICENSING. Kitsen Table Inc. Change of Corporate
Name/Issuance of Stock. The Chair opened the public hearing on the application from
Kitsen Table Inc. to Change the Corporate Name and Issuance of Stock. Hoang Sa This
Ngyen appeared before the Board to present the application from Kitsen Table Inc. No
one spoke opposed or in favor of the application. The public hearing was closed. Motion
made to approve the application, as presented, from Kitsen Table Inc., 10 Bessom Street,
d/b/a Soall Bistro, for Change of Stock interest and Change of Corporate Name subject to
receipt of the required documents and approval by the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Commission. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded by Mr. Murray. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Murray in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor.

PUBLIC HEARING. LICENSING. Corinthian Yacht Club. Change of Officers
and Directors. David Titus appeared before the Board to present the application from
the Corinthian Yacht Club. Motion made to approve the application, as presented, from
David Titus, Corinthian Yacht Club, 1 Nahant Street, for a Change of Officers and
Directors, subject to receipt of the required documents and approval by the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Commission. Moved by Mr. Murray seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Nye, present; Mr.
Murray in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor.

PUBLIC HEARING. LICENSING. Rip Tide Group, LLC. Pledge of Liquor
License. The Chair opened the public hearing on the application from Rip Tide Group
LLC to pledge the liquor license. Attorney Paul Lynch appeared before the Board to
present the application from the Rip Tide Group LLC. No one spoke opposed or in favor
of the application. The public hearing was closed. Motion made to approve the
application, as presented, from Rip Tide Group, LLC, 116 Pleasant Street, to Pledge the

All-Alcoholic Beverage License subject to receipt of the required documents and
approval by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission. Moved by Mr. Nye, seconded
by Mr. Murray. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr.
Nye, in favor; Mr. Murray in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor.

PUBLIC HEARING. LICENSING. Transfer of All Alcoholic Beverage
License/Common Victualler License. ANH Restaurant & Entertainment Group,
LLC, 123 Pleasant Street. The Chair opened the Public Hearing on the transfer of the
All-Alcoholic Beverage License at 123 Pleasant Street. John Nicastro appeared before
the Board to present the application. No one spoke opposed or in favor of this
application. The public hearing was closed. Motion was made to approve the application
for a Common Victualler License for ANH Restaurant & Entertainment Group, LLC, 123
Pleasant Street, Manager John Nicastro, hours of operation Monday through Sunday
10:00am – 12:00 midnight, subject to receipt of all applicable inspection sign offs and all
fees paid. All in favor. Motion made and seconded to approve the transfer of the All-
Alcoholic Beverage License from Warwick Entertainment, 123 Pleasant Street, to ANH
Restaurant & Entertainment Group, LLC, 123 Pleasant Street, hours of operation Monday
through Sunday 10:00am – 12:00 midnight, subject to approval from the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Commission, Cori approval and receipt of all applicable inspection
sign offs and fees paid and proof of TIPS or equivalent certification. Moved by Mr. Nye,
seconded by Mr. Murray. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in
favor; Mr. Nye, in favor; Mr. Murray in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of November 15, 2023
and December 13, 2023. All in favor.

BELL RINGING. Washington’s Birthday. Motion made and seconded that the bells
of Abbot Hall and all the churches in Marblehead be rung on Washington’s Birthday,
Thursday, February 22, 2024, at the usual holiday hours from 7:30 a.m. to 8:00 a.m.; 12
noon to 12:30 p.m.; 6:00 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. as has been the custom in the past. All in
favor.

GIFT TO TOWN. Surveying Equipment. Motion made and seconded to accept as a
give to the Town the following surveying equipment from Hancock Associates and put
into the care and custody of the Engineering Department and to send a letter of
appreciation:
    (1) Leica model TP S700 total Station
    (2) Tripods
    (1) Surveying rod and peanut prism
    (1) Tricrach prism support with prism
All in favor.

CONTRACT. Kneeland Construction. Amend time. Motion made and seconded to
amend the contract for the Grace Olivers Railing Project between the Town and
Kneeland Construction of Medford, MA to extend the time for performance until January

31, 2024 and authorize the Chair to sign the amendment of behalf of the Board. All in
favor.

LEASE AGREEMENT. Police Vehicle(s). Motion made and seconded to approve the
Lease Agreement, as presented, between the Town and Republic First National, for Two
(2) New Ford AWD Police Utility Interceptors with Upfitting and authorize the Chair to
sign on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

LEASE AGREEMENT. School Bus. Motion made and seconded to approve the Lease
Agreement, as presented, between the Town and Huntington Public Capital Corporation
for Pupil Transportation Large Bus, One 2023 bluebird bus, VIN:1BAKJCSA7SF807235
and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Collins Engineering. Amend Contract Amount. Motion made and
seconded to amend the contract between the Town and Collins Engineering for the
town’s Coastal Resilience Municipal Land Project by increasing the contract amount by
thirty-eight thousand and sixty dollars ($38,060.00) and authorize the Chair to sign
amendment on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

DONATION ACCOUNT. Council on Aging. Motion made and seconded to approve
the request from Lisa Hooper, Council on Aging, to establish a donation account for
receipts received from Dennis Curtain’s book, Marblehead Vignettes to be used by the
Council on Aging. All in favor.

LICENSING. Automatic Amusement Device. VFW. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Edward Preble, VFW, for an Automatic Amusement Device
License for the following:
Trivia Game Serial # U5-0408-143041 subject to receipt of the required fees. All in
favor.

PARKING REGULATIONS. No Parking/TOW ZONE. Pump Stations. Amy
McHugh, DPW Director, appeared before the Board. On December 13, 2023, the Board
reviewed a request from Amy McHugh to establish No Parking /Tow Zone areas at all
the Pump Stations in Town. Following up on that request, the Board reviewed the
proposed parking regulations and a motion was made and seconded to approve following
Parking Regulations:
NO PARKING / TOW ZONE at Sewer Pump Station Access areas as presented, and
submitted by the Town Engineer titled, “December 8, 2023, Proposed No Parking zone
descriptions” and to post signs designating such areas as NO Parking - Tow Zone with
a year-round restriction of 20 feet in length and Seasonal (December 15 to April 15)
restriction of 40 feet in length. All in favor.

CULTURAL COUNCIL Letter of Interest. The Board received a letter of interest
from Alexandra MacAaron as it relates to serving on the Cultural Council. The Board
will invite Ms. MacAaron in to a future Board meeting.

PERMISSION. Black Cat 10/20 Miler. B&S Fitness. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Ashley Steeves, B&S Fitness Companies, to hold the Wicked
10, 20 miler on Sunday, March 24, 2024 subject to approval of the Marblehead Police
and Recreation and Parks, receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance naming the
Town of Marblehead as additionally insured and police details. All distances will start
and finish at B&S Fitness, Salem. Start times begin at 8:00 am with the last runners
exiting Marblehead by 11:30 am. No permanent markings shall be made on the streets
and any temporary markings shall be removed at the conclusion of the event. The VFW
Post in Marblehead and the Allie Castner Scholarship Foundation shall be two (2) of the
charities to benefit from the event. All in favor.

POLICE DEPARTMENT. Indemnification. Motion made and seconded to indemnify
Officer Luke Peters for injuries sustained while on duty on December 23, 2023. All in
favor.

PUBLIC COMMENT. The following public comment was taken:
Albert Jordon: feels the new police vehicles lack visibility/questioned how many cars
were towed during previous storm/concerned with trailers, cars and equipment that are on
the roads during storms.

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR UPDATE. The Town Administrator updated the Board as
follows:
    • Warrant deadline for filing citizen petitions.
    • State of the Town, January 24, 2024.
    • Warrant deadline for Town departments, brief preview of articles that may be
       placed on the warrant.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS. The Chair Pro Tem announced the annual
Holocaust Remembrance Day will be held on Friday, January 26, 2024 at 12:00 noon at
Abbot Hall.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:25 p.m. All in favor.

                                      Kyle A. Wiley
                                      Administrative Aide

List of documents used: Ltr of interest, Rebecca Herve-Lorenzo / Thomas Howard resume/
Liquor Licensing applications: Kitsen Table/ CYC/Rip Tide / ANH Restaurant Group / Ltr to
Board re gift to Town; Lease Agreements: Police vehicles, School Bus; request for Donation
Account, COA / Request for AAU Device, VFW / Parking Regulations, Pump Stations / Letter of
interest, Alexandra MacAAron /B&S Fitness 10/20 Miler / Police Dept, request for
Indemnification.:

