                                  SELECT BOARD

                                      MINUTES

                                  December 11, 2024

Board met in HYBRID session at 6:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street
The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                  Erin M. Noonan
                                      Dan Fox
                                 M. C. Moses Grader
                                   Bret T. Murray
                                   Alexa J. Singer

                      Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of December 11, 2024, to order. This meeting is being
recorded.

JOINT MEETING. Water & Sewer Commission. Interview/Appointment. The
Board met in joint session with the following members of the Water & Sewer
Commission to interview an applicant for the vacancy on the Commission: Tom Murray,
Greg Bates and Barton Hyte. Greg Burt appeared before the Board seeking to fill the
vacancy. After questions from the Board a motion was made and seconded to appoint
Greg Burt to the Water & Sewer Commission with a term to expire in June 2025. All in
favor.

FAIR HOUSING COMMITTEE. Interviews/Appointment. The following
applicants appeared before the Board seeking appointment to the Fair Housing
Committee, Alternate Member: Nisha Austin, Ramon Garcia and Caroline Morrissey.
After interviews a motion was made and seconded to place all names into nomination to
serve on the Fair Housing Committee, Alternate Member, with a term to expire in June
2026. On a roll call vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Fox, Ramon Garcia; Mr.
Grader, Ramon Garcia; Mr. Murray, Ramon Garcia; Mrs. Singer, Ramon Garcia; Mrs.
Noonan, Ramon Garcia. Ramon Garcia appointed to the Fair Housing Committee,
Alternate Member, with a term to expire in June 2026.

MBTA ADVISORY COMMITTEE. Chair of Select Board, Liaison. The following
applicants appeared before the Board seeking appointment as the Chair’s Liaison to serve
on the MBTA Advisory Committee: Judith Black and Tracey Lawrence. Judith Black
withdrew her name before the vote stating she felt Ms. Lawrence was the more qualified
candidate. Motion made and seconded to appoint Tracey Lawrence to serve as the Select
Board, Liaison, on the MBTA Advisory Committee with term to expire in June 2025. All
in favor.




December 11, 2024                         145
HARRIS STREET CEMETERIES OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. At Large
Member. Interviews/Appointment. The following applicants appeared before the
Board seeking appointment to the Harris Street Cemeteries Oversight Committee, At
Large Member: Peter Kent and Christopher Hardy. After interviews a motion was made
and seconded to place all names into nomination to serve on the Harris Street Cemeteries
Oversight Committee with a term to expire in June 2025. On a roll call vote the Board
voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, Chris Hardy; Mr. Murray, Chris Hardy; Mr. Grader, Peter
Kent; Mr. Fox, Chris Hardy and Mrs. Noonan, Chris Hardy. Chris Hardy appointed to
the Harris Street Oversight Committee, At Large Member, with a term to expire in June
2025.

PUBLIC HEARING. Licensing. Rip Tide RG Inc., 116 Pleasant Street. Transfer
of All Alcoholic Beverage License. John Kaetzer appeared before the Board seeking the
transfer of the All-Alcoholic Beverage License at 116 Pleasant Street. No one spoke
opposed or in favor of the application. Motion made and seconded to approve the
application from Rip Tide RG Inc., as presented, for a Common Victualler License at 116
Pleasant Street, Manager: John Kaetzer, subject to receipt of the required forms, fees and
receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance. Hours of operation will be Monday
through Saturday 9:00 a.m. – midnight and Sundays 11:00 a.m. to midnight. All in favor.

Motion made to approve the application from Rip Tide RG Inc., as presented, for the
transfer of the All-Alcoholic Beverage License at 116 Pleasant Street, Manager: John
Kaetzer, subject to receipt of the required forms, fees, ABCC and CORI approval and
receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance. Hours of operation will be Monday
through Saturday 9:00 a.m. – midnight and Sundays 11:00 a.m. to midnight. Moved by
Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Fox. On a roll call vote the Board voted as follows: Mr.
Fox, in favor; Mr. Murray, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor.

LICENSING. Annual Entertainment License. Elia Taverna, 261 Washington
Street. Angelo Bido appeared before the Board seeking an annual Entertainment License
at 261 Washington Street. After review, motion made and seconded to approve the
request, as presented, from Elia Taverna, 261 Washington Street, for an annual
Entertainment License, Thursdays, 6:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m., subject to receipt of the
required fees and that no music is heard from the street. All in favor.

LICENSING. Common Victualler. Java Sun. 35 Atlantic Avenue. German
Ramirez appeared before the Board seeking a Common Victualler License at 35 Atlantic
Avenue. After review, motion made and seconded to approve the application from Java
Sun Inc., 35 Atlantic Avenue for a Common Victualler License, Manager: German
Ramirez. Hours of Operation Monday through Sunday 5:00 a.m. – 7:00 p.m. subject to
receipt of the required forms, fees and department sign off’s. All in favor.

PUBLIC COMMENT. None.




December 11, 2024                          146
TOWN ADMINISTRATOR UPDATE. The Town Administrator updated the Board as
follows:
    • Building Commissioner has joined Marblehead as a full-time employee.
    • Renovations at Mary Alley to create better working space.
    • Stored documents are being moved to the Eveleth and digitizing of documents
       will be starting soon.

FINANCIAL FORECAST. Aleesha Benjamin, Chief Financial Officer, Alec Goolsby,
Finance Committee Chair, and Molly Teets (remote), Finance Committee Member,
appeared before the Board to present the Fiscal Year 2026 Financial Forecast. Early in
budget preparation the Finance Committee met early in the summer to assist the CFO
with a long-term plan. The Finance Committee held early budget liaison meetings with
extensive salary analysis and with templates that they developed and expense growth.
These were held in October and November. Ms. Benjamin went on to outline the largest
cost drivers (salaries, insurance benefits, pensions, utilities and trash fees). Mr. Goolsby
discussed the town's financial projections for the next three years. He noted that the
largest expense line is salaries, which are expected to increase significantly and the need
for a reserve in the budget, particularly for health insurance and utilities. He highlighted
the challenges of budgeting for out-of-district tuition and transportation costs, which are
expected to increase, and expressed the need for flexibility in the budget due to
uncertainties in various line items.

Michael Phifferling, Assistant Superintendent of Finance & Operations, Marblehead
Public Schools, spoke to the school budget and the use of a circuit breaker reimbursement
for unanticipated expenses or not budgeted expenses.

Andrew Petty, Public Health Director, spoke regarding the Trash contract that will expire
in FY27. Mr. Petty has reviewed contracts across the State and chose 6 comparable
communities to look at their curbside rates. Labor, equipment and fuel are all driving the
costs way up. Securing a 10-year contract again may be a way to get better rates and
allow for better projections.

The CFO and Town Administrator are brining on an independent specialist that advises
towns in Massachusetts on both override analysis and forecasting analysis, as well as
restructuring scenarios and assisting with audits. A written report will be provided to the
Town that can then be used to determine the best financial solutions for the Town.

AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN ACT. Year End Update. The Town Administrator and
Aleesha Benjamin, CFO, reviewed end of year requirements that must be met regarding
ARPA allocations the Town has received. The Town is pushing hard to have a
completed comprehensive list and have all contracts in place by the end of the calendar
year. Departments Heads are working on contract documentation, and the CFO is
completing the financial plan. This will require another meeting of the Board by the end
of the year to vote on final contracts and to vote the final list of how the Town has
allocated all ARPA funds received, as required. The CFO then reviewed the final list of
how the Town allocated the Revenue Loss Funds, $584,142. The ARPA process allowed


December 11, 2024                           147
a formula to be applied that allowed municipalities to calculate revenue losses and what
that dollar amount of ARPA funds is to be allocated for that purpose. The Town then had
to decide how best to use those funds without leaving anything on the table. There are
specific guidelines as to how those funds could be spent i.e. urgent requirements, no other
funding sources available or the timeline to get funding would exceed the expectation of
ARPA Funds.

Of the $584,142.00 calculated Revenue Loss Funds, 54% was allocated to the Schools
and 46% to the Town.

Motion made and seconded to approve the ARPA Revenue Loss Funding, as presented.
All in favor.

LICENSING. 2025. Renewals for Businesses in the Town of Marblehead. Motion
made to renew all 2025 Licenses for businesses in the Town of Marblehead, as posted
and attached here in the Select Board Meeting packet, subject to the following:
   • all taxes and fees to the Town being paid and receipt of all applicable departmental
        approvals:
   • approval from the Commonwealth’s Department of Public Safety for Sunday
        Entertainment:
   • a valid Certificate of Inspection for 2024-2025, a Certificate of Occupancy as
        appropriate and compliance with Chapter 304 of the Acts of 2004:
Moved by Mr. Murray, seconded by Mr. Fox. On a roll call vote the Board voted as follows:
Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Murray, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Fox, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS, GENERAL Motion made and seconded to approve
the following Consent Agenda Items except those put on hold:

MINUTES of November 13, 2024 (6:00 p.m.)

LEASE AGREEMENTS for Private Drain Connection to Town Drainage, between
the Town and the following applicants, as presented, and authorize the Chair to sign on
behalf of the Board:
    • 124 Front Street, Deborah Clark
    • 27 Prince Street, Nancy Penni Nash
    • 257 Washington Street, Andrew Savage and 257-259 Washington Street

LICENSING. New Year’s Eve. Extended Business Hours - to allow restaurants in
the Town of Marblehead to remain open for business on Wednesday, January 1, 2025,
until 1:00 a.m., at their discretion.

SURPLUS EQUIPMENT -to declare the following items as surplus and no longer
needed for Municipal purpose so that they may be disposed of in accordance with the
Town’s policy on surplus equipment:
   • Canon 2007 ImageRUNNER


December 11, 2024                          148
Black Cat 10/20 Miler. B&S Fitness - Sunday, March 23, 2025 subject to approval of
the Marblehead Police and Recreation and Parks, receipt of the required Certificate of
Insurance naming the Town of Marblehead as additionally insured and police details. All
distances will start and finish at B&S Fitness, Salem. Start times begin at 8:00 am with
the last runners exiting Marblehead by 11:30 am. No permanent markings shall be made
on the streets, and any temporary markings shall be removed at the conclusion of the
event. The VFW Post in Marblehead and the Allie Castner Scholarship Foundation shall
be two (2) of the charities to benefit from the event.

Abbot Hall – request from the Task Force against Discrimination for Holocaust
Remembrance Day, Friday, January 31, 2025 at 12:00 p.m.

All in favor.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS, CONTRACTS. Motion made and seconded to approve
the following Consent Agenda Items, Contracts, for the Town of Marblehead, except
those put on hold, and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board:

Bills Auto Clinic, Salem MA – snow emergency towing.

Raffaele Construction Corp., Swampscott, MA for the Swampscott Branch Crossing
Project to in the amount of three hundred ninety-three thousand eight hundred and sixty
dollars ($393,860.00).

CN Wood Environ LLC for a Boom flail mower to fit Trackless MT7 in the amount
of thirty eight thousand two hundred and ninety dollars ($38,290.00).

Raffaele Construction Corp., Swampscott, MA, for the Elm Street Park
Improvement project (aka Gerry school) base bid, in the amount of one hundred eighty
four thousand one hundred and five dollars ($184,105).

Foster Architecture for the Hobbs House Window and Porch Project in the amount
of twenty-nine thousand five hundred and eighty dollars ($29,580)

Richard D’Ambrosia Inc., Weymouth, MA for the 2024-053 Sidewalk Repair and
ADA Improvements, in the not to exceed amount of five hundred fifty-one thousand
three hundred twenty-five dollar and no cents ($551,325.00).

McKay Plumbing and Heating – Heater for State Street, in the amount of thirteen
thousand dollars ($13,000).
All in favor.
LICENSING. 1 Day Liquor License. Temple Emanu-El. Motion to approve the
request from Temple Emanu-El for a one-day liquor license for February 5, 2025, 6:30 –
9:00 p.m. at 393 Atlantic Avenue subject to the following conditions:


December 11, 2024                         149
   •   Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50).
   •   Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.
    • Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of G. L. c. 138.
    • Alcohol will be purchased from Beachmont Liquors.
Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Fox. On a roll call vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Murray, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Fox, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in
favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor.

WREATHS ACROSS AMERICA. Notice was received from Teresa Collins regarding
the 3rd annual Wreaths Across America day ceremony on Saturday, December 14, 2024,
at 12:00 noon at the Veterans Lot at Waterside Cemetery. Each year veterans from each
branch of service are invited to bring forward and present a wreath on behalf of their
branch of service. This year will feature a lineup of all female veterans. This event is
open to the public.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS. None.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 9:06 p.m. All in favor.



                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide


List of documents used: resumes: Greg Burt, Nisha Austin, Ramon Garcia, Caroline
Morrissey, Judith Black, Tracey Lawrence, Peter Kent, Christopher Hardy; Rip Tide RG
application/ Elia Taverna entertainment license request/ Java Sun, Common Vic
application / ARPA revenue loss report / Drain connection agreements, 124 Front, 27
Prince, 257 Washington St / Black Cat 10/20 Miler / Task Force request for Abbot Hall /
Wreaths Across America notification.




December 11, 2024                          150
