                                  SELECT BOARD

                                      MINUTES

                                   October 9, 2024

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street
The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                   Erin M. Noonan
                                       Dan Fox
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                    Bret T. Murray
                                    Alexa J. Singer

                      Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of October 9, 2024 to order. This meeting is being
recorded.

PUBLIC COMMENT. None.

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR UPDATE. The Town Administrator advised the Board on
the following:
    • FY2024 Treasurer Investment Return of $2,397,428.00.
    • $16,000 Assistance to Firefighter Grant received
    • Lt. Gilliland deployed to North Carolina under contract with FEMA
    • Fire Academy graduate
    • Police Academy graduate
    • Board of Health received Community Compact Grant Awards to study
        maternal/child health, and risky behaviors of children and adolescents
Motion made and seconded to send a letter or recognition to the Town Treasurer
expressing the Board’s gratitude. All in favor.

TOWN CHARTER COMMITTEE. Update. Amy Drinker, Chair, and Rosanna
Ferrant, Vice Chair, appeared before the Board to give an update on the Committee’s
progress to the Board on the basic work the committee is doing. Ms. Drinker read the
Committees Mission Statement. The Committee has been meeting with Elected and
Appointed officials and Department Heads to better understand their operations,
perspectives, challenges and opportunities. Draft language is being prepared by
volunteer committee members and reviewed by the Committee and the Collins Center,
with the goal of documenting how Marblehead currently operates and governs, while
considering ways to improve town government efficiency. Ms. Ferrante spoke to the
upcoming public forum the Committee is holding on Tuesday, October 22, 2024, at 7:00
p.m. at Abbot Hall and via zoom. The Committee is seeking to educate residents on why
the Town may want a town charter and what it may look like, and to solicit feedback


October 9, 2024                           121
from the community on the town charter process. There will be a question-and-answer
portion to the public forum. The Chair thanked the Committee for all the time and
energy they have put into this process. Mr. Grader stated, as the Board’s Liaison to the
Town Charter Committee, that this committee is outstanding and working together well
while being mindful and respectful of each other.

HARRIS STREET CEMETERIES OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. Interviews.
Appointments. The following applicants appeared before the Board seeking
appointment to the Harris Street Cemeteries Oversight Committee: John Fasanello and
Ellen Harrington. Motion made and seconded to appoint John Fasanello and Ellen
Harrington to the Harris Street Cemeteries Oversight Committee, At Large, with a term
to expire in June 2025. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded appoint Ed Nilsson and David Bittermann to the Harris Street
Cemeteries Oversight Committee, Historical Commission Representatives, with a term to
expire in June 2025. All in favor.

TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION. Student Representative.
Interview. Appointment. Maren Potter appeared before the Board seeking appointment
to the Task Force. Motion made and seconded to appoint Maren Potter to the Task Force
Against Discrimination, Student Representative, with a term to expire in June 2025. All
in favor.

CONSENT AGENDA VOTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the following
Consent Agenda items except those put on hold for further discussion:

MINUTES of September 25, 2024.

ABBOT HALL Festival of Arts, Artisans Fair, December 6-8, 2024, subject to the
usual rules, regulations, fees and coordination of the schedule with the Select Board
office.

RIGHT OF ENTRY AGREEMENT between the Town and 55 Seaview Avenue for
the Town to access the driveway at 55 Seaview Avenue for the purpose of removing a
town shade trade as set forth in the agreement and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of
the Board.

RIGHT OF ENTRY AGREEMENT between the Town and 297 Ocean Avenue for
the Town to access the property at 297 Ocean Avenue for the purpose of repairs as set
forth in the agreement and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board.

SURPLUS, Mary Alley Building items as follows and no longer needed for municipal
purpose and available for disposition in accordance with MGL Chapter 30B and the
Town’s policy on surplus equipment: 1 metal desk/6 file cabinets.

All in favor.



October 9, 2024                            122
CONSENT AGENDA VOTES. Contracts. Motion made and seconded to approve the
following Consent Agenda items, Contracts, except those put on hold for further
discussion:

Stryker Co., Fire Station, for a Lucas device and battery, in the amount of eighteen
thousand one hundred and eighty eight dollars and 04/100 ($18,188.04) and authorize the
Chair to sign on behalf of the Board.

Toole Design of Boston, MA, Amend the contract for Swampscott Rail Trail
Engineering and Design Phase 2 between the Town and Toole Design of Boston, MA
to include Task 6 and Task 7 from proposal dated August 6, 2024, and by increasing the
contract amount by Sixty Four Thousand Three Hundred and Ninety One and 00/100
($64,391.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board.

Salem Sound Coastwatch, amend the contract for Consulting Services, project
management, and stakeholder engagement for Coastal Resilience Grant for Marblehead
Municipal Light and Surrounding Lands Phase II between the Town and Salem Sound
2000 Inc. (DBA Salem Sound Coastwatch) of Salem, MA by adding Task 7.1 - extend a
walkway from Commercial Street extension to Cliff Street Pocket Park by increasing the
contract amount by Two Thousand Eight Hundred Dollars and 00/100 ($2,800.00) and
authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board.

Corolla Contracting Inc., Change Order No.03, DPW and Police Roof Rehabilitation
project, between the Town and Corolla Contracting, Inc. of Winthrop, MA, by adding
Scope to Re-Caulk 5 Glass Block Window Frames by increasing the contract amount by
Seven Thousand Two Hundred and Fifty Four Dollars and 00/100 ($7,254.00) and
authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board.

Corolla Contracting Inc., Change Order No.04, DPW and Police Roof Rehabilitation
project, between the Town and Corolla Contracting, Inc of Winthrop, MA by adding
Scope to Replace Rotted Roof Decking increasing contract amount by Seven Thousand
Two Hundred and Fifty Four Dollars and 00/100 ($7,254.00) and authorize the Chair to
sign on behalf of the Board.

Corolla Contracting Inc., Change Order No.05, DPW and Police Roof Rehabilitation
project, between the Town and Corolla Contracting, Inc of Winthrop, MA by removing
the following Scope items: Roof Hatch Access and lightning Road System decreasing the
contract amount by Fourteen Thousand Eight Hundred and Fifty Eight Dollars and
00/100 (-$ 14,858.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board.

HARBORS AND WATERS BOARD. Reappointments. Appointments. The Board
reviewed membership of the Harbors and Waters Board. The Chair and Mr. Grader have
discussed with Harbors and Waters Chair the importance of having a succession plan in
place. The H&W Chair agrees with this. After discussion motion made and seconded to
appoint Kenneth Breen, Steven Wolf and Karen Finocchio to the Harbors and Waters



October 9, 2024                           123
Board, alternate members, and Rick Cuzner, full member, with terms to expire in June
2025 and to reappoint Gary Gregory, John Doub, Jay Michaud and T. Clark Smith, full
members, with terms to expire in 2025. 4 voted in favor, Mr. Murray voted opposed.

APPRECIATION. Motion made and seconded to send letters of appreciation to Peter
Dragonas and Chris Hood for their service on the Harbors and Waters Board. All in
favor.

LEASE. North Shore Medical Center. Alterations. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from North Shore Medical Center, to make alterations in accordance
with the Lease Agreement between the Town and North Shore Medical Center, executed
on March 6, 2023, under Section 17, ALTERATIONS AND INSTALLATION OF
EQUIPMENT. The total project is estimated at $113,000. All in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License(s). Friends of Performing Arts/First
Church of Christ/Rotary Club of Marblehead. Motion made to approve the request
from following applicants for a One Day Liquor License subject to the following
conditions:
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50).
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.
    • Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of G. L. c. 138.
Friends of Performing Arts, November 7, 2024, King Hooper Mansion, 6:30 – 9:30 p.m.
First Church of Christ, November 22, 2024, 41 Washington Street. 6:30 – 9;30 p.m.
Rotary Club of Marblehead, December 14, 2024, Abbot Hall, 7:00 – 11:00 p.m.

Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Murray. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Fox in favor; Mr. Murray in favor; Mr. Grader in favor; Mrs. Noonan in
favor.

DIVISION OF MARINE FISHERIES. Notification. The Board received notification
from the Division of Marine Fisheries that N21.2, Devereux and Tuckers Beaches are
“conditionally approved” and open for Shellfishing October 2, 2024, through April 30,
2025.

HISTORICAL COMMISSION. Spirit Room Window Treatments. Notification was
received from Pam Peterson, Chair, Historical Commission, that the Historical
Commission is planning to replace the shades in the Spirit Room and will bear the
responsibility for all costs.

CONGRATULATIONS/APPRECIATION. Retirement. The Board received
notification of the pending retirement of David Titus, General Manager, Corinthian Yacht
Club. David has worked behind the scenes for over 30 years to provide facilities, food
and service, often at no coast or fee waived to benefit many civic and charitable


October 9, 2024                           124
organizations. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of congratulations and
appreciation to David Titus. All in favor.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS. None.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 7:55 p.m. All in favor.


                                    Kyle A. Wiley
                                    Administrative Aide


List of documents used: Resumes; John Fasanello, Ellen Harrington, Joe Dipoli, Maren
Potter/draft minutes September 25, 2024/Festival of Arts request for Abbot Hall/ROE 55
Seaview Avenue, 297 Ocean Avenue/Surplus item request/North Shore Medical Center
request for alterations/1 Day liquor request, FOPA, First Church of Christ, Holiday
Pops/Shellfish Notification/letter from Historical Commission re: Spirit Room
shades/CYC notice of retirement.




October 9, 2024                           125
