                                   SELECT BOARD

                                      MINUTES

                                   November 4, 2024

Board met in HYBRID session at 10:06 a.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street
The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                               Erin M. Noonan, remotely
                                       Dan Fox
                                    Bret T. Murray
                                    Alexa J. Singer

CHAIR PRO TEM. Motion made to appoint Bret Murray Chair Pro Tem for this
meeting. Moved by Mrs. Singer, seconded by Mr. Fox. On a roll call vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Fox, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr.
Murray, in favor.

The Chair called the meeting of November 4, 2024, to order. This meeting is being
recorded. Mrs. Noonan is participating remotely.

LICENSING. (4) One Day Liquor License(s). Egypt House. Motion made to
approve the request from the Egypt House for (4) One Day Liquor Licenses on
November 10, 2024, November 30, 2024, December 6, 2024, and December 25, 2024,
from 3:00 p.m. – midnight. subject to the following conditions:
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50 each).
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
    • Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.
    • Alcohol will be purchased from Marblehead Brewing Co., United, Seaboard and
        Martignetti.
The Board reviewed the request specifically to the hours on the event and Mr. Fox made
a motion to amend the request to approve the times on November 10th and December 25th
to be 3:00 p.m. – 10:00 p.m. No one seconded the motion and Mr. Fox withdrew his
motion to amend. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows on the original motion:
Mr. Fox, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Murray, in favor.

PUBLIC COMMENT. None.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS. None.

Motion to adjourn at 10:15 a.m. Moved by Mr. Fox, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows on the original motion: Mr. Fox, in favor; Mrs.
Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Murray, in favor.

                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

List of documents used: One Day liquor license request, Egypt House.

