                                   SELECT BOARD

                                       MINUTES

                                  September 11, 2024

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street
The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                   Erin M. Noonan
                                       Dan Fox
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                    Bret T. Murray
                                    Alexa J. Singer

                       Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of September 11, 2024 to order. This meeting is being
recorded.

REV250 COMMITTEE. Events. Donald Doliber, Town Historian, Member Rev250
Committee, appeared before the Board to invite the Board to events, in celebration of the
250th Anniversary of Marblehead’s role in the Revolution, on September 21 and
September 22, 2024, and to present Board members with a booklet prepared by the
REV250 Committee that will be available to over the weekend. Events will be taking
place all over the Historic District, organized and presented by all the organizations
involved in the REV250 Celebration. The Board thanked Don and the committee for
organizing these events for the Town.

MASSACHUSETTS BAY TRANSPORATION AUTHORITY (MBTA)
COMMUNITIES ACT. Update. Logan Casey, Sustainability Coordinator, appeared
before the Board to make a presentation, requested by the Board, on the MBTA
Communities Act. The Board asked questions followed by a lengthy discussion on the
MBTA Communities Act. The Board decided at this time to not move forward with a
special town meeting in November. No action was taken.

PUBLIC COMMENT. The Board received public comment from many residents on
the pros and cons of the MBTA Communities Act and a November special town meeting.

9:05 P.M. Motion made and seconded to recess for 5 minutes. All in favor.

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR UPDATE. The Town Administrator updated by the
Board as follows:
   • The Treasurer/Collector has resolved, and will be closing out, the previously
       reported issue with the IRS regarding tax withholdings. The Treasurer has

        implemented new procedures and documentation to ensure the Town maintains
        accurate and timely reporting to the IRA moving forward.
    •   Police recruit Taylor Nolasco, conditionally appointed by Select Board, is
        currently attending the Police Academy and expected to graduate in mid-March.
    •   Police Department is now using the new solar powered mobile surveillance
        camera purchased through a grant program.
    •   Bobbie Cody, Public Health Inspector and Charles Quigley, Town Engineer, have
        officially retired.

CONGRATULATIONS. Retirement. Motion made and seconded to send a letter of
appreciation and congratulations to Bobbie Cody and Charlie Quigley for their many
years of service to the Town. All in favor.

VETERANS’ AGENT. Appointment. Roseann Trionfi-Mazzuchelli appeared before
the Board. Motion made and seconded to appoint Roseann Trionfi-Mazzuchelli as
Veterans Agent and Director of Veterans’ Services, Veterans’ Graves Officer, Flag
Officer, Sealer of Weights and Measures, all with a term to expire in June 2025. All in
favor.

TOWN ENGINEER. Appointment. Maggie Wheeler appeared before the Board.
Motion made and seconded to appoint Maggie Wheeler as Town Engineer effective
September 16, 2024 as a grade 11 Step 1 on the administrative pay scale commencing on
July 1, 2024 with a term to expire June 2025. All in favor.

HARRIS STREET CEMETERIES OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. Establish.
Motion made and seconded to establish the Harris Street Cemeteries Oversight
Committee for the purpose of supervising the restoration of the Harris Street Cemeteries,
including Harris Street Cemetery, the Hooper Tomb and the Captain Martin Tomb. The
Committee shall consist of 5 members; 2 Historical Commission Members and 3 at large
Members. All in favor.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS. Votes of the Board. Motion made and seconded to
approve the following consent agenda items except those placed on hold:

Minutes of August 28, 2024.

Marblehead Little Theatre request to use Abbot Hall for a production of The Scarlett
Pimpernel April 6 – 13, 2025 subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees and receipt of
the required Certificate of Insurance.

Parking Restrictions. Round House Road. Annual Clean up. Request from Amy
McHugh, Public Works Director, to temporarily make the entirety of the Railroad Right
of Way known as Roundhouse Road, from School Street through to Bessom Street, as
well as upper Anderson Street from #10 Anderson through to Bessom Street a NO
PARKING/TOW ZONE area for the following dates:
        October 21, 2024 from the hours of 7:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m.

        Rain Date: October 22, 2024 from the hours of 7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
This is to facilitate the annual clean-up and repair of town property in this area.

Rotary Club of Marblehead 5K on November 3, 2024, revised route.

MHS All Sports Booster annual Scholarship drive on Sunday, October 20, 2024.

Constable Reappointment, Yeimi Reynoso as Constable, to serve Civil Service, subject
to receipt of the require bond and a term to expire in June 2025.

All in favor.

LICENSE AGREEMENT. Boatyards, Cliff Street, Commercial Street and
Redstone Lane. The Board discussed bid results for the License Agreement to Lease a
portion on the boatyard at Cliff Street, Commercial Street and Redstone Lane. Questions
were asked regarding usage and dimensions of the property. Seeking more information
the Board will put this on their next meeting agenda. No votes were taken.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS. Contracts. Motion made and seconded to approve the
following consent agenda items, contracts, except those placed on hold:

Crowley Cottrell, LLC, Gerry School - for final design, bidding and construction
management of the former Gerry School Park, in the amount of eighteen thousand two
hundred eighty dollars and 00/100 ($18,280.00) and to authorize the Chair to seeing on
behalf of the Board.

Woodward and Curran, Change Order No. 1, MS4 Compliance Assistance - to
amend the contract between the Town and Woodard and Curran by adding Training
hours for Town Departments and increasing the contract amount by a not to exceed
amount of Five Thousand Dollars and 00/00 ($5,000.00) and authorize the Chair to sign
on behalf of the Board.

Road Salt, Memorandum of Understanding - to utilize the Statewide Contract VEH
119 – Road Salt for the 2024-2025 Season and to authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of
the Board.

Holcim NEW Inc., Year 2 (Option Year 1) for Contract MDPW-24-01 for
bituminous concrete pick up in the amount Two Hundred Seventeen Thousand Seven
Hundred and Forty Dollars and 00/100 ($217,740.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on
behalf of the Board.

RAIL TRAIL ARPA Funding - to say “These funds are to implement the design and
construction of upgrades to the Marblehead Rail Trail”.

Hansen Marine Engineering Inc., Change Order No. 01 - to amend the contract
between the Town and Hansen Marine Engineering Inc. Contract #2024-013 Generator at

the Judy & Gene Jacobi Community Center project by increasing/ the contract amount
by Nine Hundred and Fifty-Five Dollars and 00/100 ($ 955.00) and authorize the Chair to
sign on behalf of the Board.

All in favor.

LICENSING. 1 Day Liquor License. Bubble Bar Boston. Lee Mansion. Motion to
approve the request from Bubble Bar Boston for a one-day liquor license for Saturday,
October 5, 2024 from 11:00 am – 4:00 pm at the Jeremiah Lee Mansion subject to the
following conditions:
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50).
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.
    • Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of G. L. c. 138.
    • Alcohol will be purchased from Martignetti’s.
Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Fox. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Fox, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Murray, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in
favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS. None.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 9:45 p.m. All in favor.

                                    Kyle A. Wiley
                                    Administrative Aide

List of documents used: MBTA Communities Act presentation/Town Administrator
update/Veterans Agent resume/Historical Commission request to appoint committee/draft
minutes 8.28.24/MLT request to use Abbot Hall/DPW request for Roundhouse Road
cleanup/MHS booster drive/Constable reappointment/RFP Boatyard/1 day liquor request
Boston Bubble Bar

