                                   SELECT BOARD

                                       MINUTES

                                    August 14, 2024

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street
The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                        Dan Fox
                                    Alexa J. Singer

                      Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of August 14, 2024 to order. This meeting is being
recorded.

PUBLIC COMMENT. Albert Jordan addressed the board concerning a recent police
incident involving a car pursuit and an incident where a taser was used by an officer.

TASK FORCE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION. 35th Anniversary. Helaine Hazlett
and Diane Gora, Co-Chairs, as well as the members of the Marblehead Task Force
Against Discrimination, appeared before the Board in celebration of the 35th Anniversary
of the appointment of the Task Force Against Discrimination. Multiple members spoke
to the many events sponsored by the Task Force this past year, highlighting their efforts
to promote inclusivity and combat hate in the community. The Task Force is shifting
towards being more proactive in their programming and education. The Select Board
congratulated the Task Force on their 35th Anniversary and thanked them for their
continued efforts in educating and supporting all residents of the Town.

POLICE DEPARTMENT. Conditional Offer of Employment. Chief King and
Taylor Nolasco appeared before the Board. The Chief introduced Taylor Nolasco to the
Board and summarized her background. After review, motion made and seconded to
make a conditional offer of employment to Taylor Nolasco as permanent full time police
officer for the Town of Marblehead conditioned on her successful completion of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts Physical Abilities Test; a complete physical
examination, and psychological examination, to be conducted by the Town’s physician
and a psychiatrist/psychologist of the Town’s choosing, effective September 9, 2024 or
the first date of an eligible police academy. All in favor.

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR UPDATE. The Town Administrator updated the Board as
follows:
    • New State Accessory Dwelling Unit by Right Law
    • Marblehead Sustainable Heritage Project – Tours of Marblehead and Salem
       Historic District


August 14, 2024                            103
    •   Comprehensive Bicycle Plan – Public Engagement Workshop

BOND COUNSEL SERVICES. Hinckley Allen. Kris Moussette, Partner, Hinckle
Allen, appeared before the Board to discuss the Town engaging the services of Hinckley
Allen as Bond Counsel. After discussion a motion was made and seconded to sign a
Letter of Engagement between the Town and Hinckley Allen for Bond Counsel Services
and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

COUNCIL ON AGING. Interviews. Appointments. The following applicants
appeared before the Board seeking appointment to the Council on Aging: Lisa Palmer
and Meredith Reardon. Motion made and seconded to appoint Lisa Palmer and Meredith
Reardon to the Council on Aging with terms to expire in June 2027. All in favor.

VFW POST 2005. Request for use of Spirit of ’76. Challenge Coin. Ron Knight
appeared before the Board seeking permission to use the image of the Spirit of ’76 on a
challenge coin for the VFW. Motion made and seconded to approve the request from
Ronny Knight, CLR/VFW Post 2005 Commander, to use an image of the Spirit of ’76 on
a challenge coin to recognize townspeople and other outside the community who have
gone above and beyond. All in favor.

BOARD OF ASSESSORS. Reserve Fund Transfer Request. John Kelley and
Jonathan Lederman appeared before the Board seeking a Reserve Fund Transfer request
in the amount of $62,000 for real estate consulting services. A lengthy discussion
followed with the Board asking the Assessors many questions. The Board expressed
concerns stating this request represents nearly half the amount available in the reserve
fund and we are currently only one month into FY25, and asked if other funding options
were considered. The process for selecting the consultant was questioned and the Board
suggested they would prefer this process be undertaken once the Assistant Assessor
vacancy is filled and that person can evaluate the need and oversee the process. The
Select Board expressed their desire that both Boards work together and through the
channels the town has established for seeking a reserve fund transfer as well as the
process to post a vacancy within the Town. It was agreed that the Board of Assessors
will meet with the CFO to discuss funding options and obtain a full scope of work
proposed for this contract and provide updated information to the Select Board at their
next meeting.

TEMPORARY PARKING RESTRICTION. Marblehead Museum. Lauren
McCormack appeared remotely before the Board. Marblehead Museum and Lafayette
200 are planning an event on Saturday, August 31, 2024 to celebrate the Bicentennial of
Marquis de Lafayette’s 1824 “Farewell Tour” of the United States at the Jeremia Lee
Mansion from 12:00 - 1:00 p.m. and is seeking to block three parking spaces for the
arrival of a horse and carriage. Motion made and seconded to approve the request from
Marblehead Museum to block three parking spaces directly in front of the Jeremiah Lee
Mansion on Saturday, August 31, 2024 from 12 noon to 1:00 p.m. to facilitate the
Bicentennial celebration of the Marquis de Lafayette’s 1824 “Farwell Tour” subject to
approve from Police, Fire and DPW. All in favor.



August 14, 2024                           104
CONSENT AGENDA. Votes of the Board. Motion made and seconded to approve the
following consent agenda items except those placed on hold:
8.a     Minutes of June 11, 2024 and July 24, 2024 and August 2, 2024.
8.b     Marblehead Youth Hockey – revise previously approved date for 5K to October
26, 2024 subject approval from Police, Fire, Recreation and Parks Department, Police
Details and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance, naming the Town of
Marblehead as additionally insured. No permanent markings are allowed on the streets
and any temporary markings must be removed at the conclusion of the event.
8.c     B&S Fitness - annual Wicked Half Marathon on September 22, 2024, subject
approval from Police, Fire, Recreation and Parks Department, Police Details and receipt
of the required Certificate of Insurance, naming the Town of Marblehead as additionally
insured. No permanent markings are allowed on the streets and any temporary markings
must be removed at the conclusion of the event.
8.d     Rotary Club of Marblehead - annual 5K on November 3, 2024, subject
approval from Police, Fire, Recreation and Parks Department, Police Details and receipt
of the required Certificate of Insurance, naming the Town of Marblehead as additionally
insured. No permanent markings are allowed on the streets and any temporary markings
must be removed at the conclusion of the event.
8.e     Declare list of Surplus items - declare the attached list of items as surplus and no
longer needed for municipal purpose and available for disposition in accordance with
MGL Chapter 30B and the Town’s policy on surplus equipment.
8.f     Marblehead Rotary – permission to replace the current Marblehead Rotary
signs as presented and subject to approval from the Department of Public Works Director
and Town Administrator. The Town will install the new signage.
All in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Marblehead Arts Association. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from Marblehead Arts Association, 8 Hooper
Street for (3) one-day liquor licenses on the following days and times: September 13,
2024, October 18, 2024 6:30 – 9:00 p.m. and October 19, 2024, 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.
subject to the following conditions:
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50).
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
    • Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.
    • Alcohol will be purchased from Kappy’s Importing & Distributing
Moved by Mrs. Singer, seconded by Mr. Fox. On a roll call vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Fox in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor.

CONSENT AGENDA. Contracts. Motion made and seconded to approve the
following contracts with the Town, and contract related votes, except those placed on
hold, and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board:



August 14, 2024                             105
11.a New Era Technology in the amount of forty-two thousand two hundred and
twenty-eight dollars and 00/100 ($42,228.00).
11.b First American Three-year lease for Explorer Police Interceptor, annual payment
of twenty-one thousand seven hundred forty-five and 70/100 ($21,745.70).
11.c Collins Engineers Inc. Regulatory Permit Coordination & Closeout Support for
the Marblehead Shipyards Resilience Project in the amount of nine thousand six hundred
and 00/100 ($9,600.00).
All in favor.

LETTERS OF INEREST. The Board received the following letters of interest:
   • Chris Butler, Historical Commission
   • Maura Dartley-Rocco, Disabilities Commission
The Board set a deadline of August 23, 2024 to submit letters of interest. All interested
applicants will be interviewed on August 28, 2024.

HARBORS AND WATERS BOARD. Letters of Interest. The Board will receive
letters of interest and resumes to serve on the Harbors and Waters Board with a deadline
to submit by August 23, 2024. All interested applicants will be interviewed on August
28, 2024.

9/11 CEREMONY. The Board received notification from the Fire Chief that
Marblehead Police and Fire will join all public safety agencies and community members
across the country to commemorate the twenty-third anniversary of September 11, 2001.
The Ceremony will commence at 10:00 a.m. at Memorial Park. This event is open to the
public.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS. None.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:00 p.m. All in favor.



                                          Kyle A. Wiley
                                          Administrative Aide


List of documents used: Town Administrator update / Hinckley and Allen Engagement Letter / Resumes,
Lisa Palmer, Meredith Reardon / VFW request to use Spirit of 76 / Draft minutes 7.11.24, 7.24.24,
8.2.24/MYH revise 5K/ B&S Fitness Wicked Half Marathon/Rotary Club request for signage/Surplus
equipment list /Marblehead Museum request for parking/New Era Technology Contract, First America
Lease, Collins Engineer/Marblehead Arts 1 day liquor license/Ltrs of interest; Chris Butler, Maura
Dartley-Rocco/9/11 Ceremony notification.




August 14, 2024                                  106
