                                   SELECT BOARD

                                       MINUTES

                                   January 24, 2024

Board met in HYBRID session at 6:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall and via ZOOM Conferencing
The following members were present constituting a quorum:

                                 Erin M. Noonan, Chair
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     Bret T. Murray
                                      James E. Nye
                                      Alexa Singer

                       Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of January 24, 2024 to order. This meeting is being
recorded.

FY2025 STATE OF THE TOWN. Thatcher Kezer, Town Administrator, presented the
2025 State of the Town, concerning the projected financial status of the town for FY25.
The Town is facing increased financial difficulties as FY24 progresses and planning for
FY25 begins. While the Town is currently in good financial health, difficult decisions
will need to be made for FY25 and beyond to ensure continued fiscal stability. The Town
will continue to take proactive steps to ensure future fiscal stability. The Board asked
questions and discussed the presentation. The Chair noted that the Board held a retreat in
early fall to address questions and residents concerns and to explore options for
increasing the town’s revenue. The Board recently adopted financial policies enacting
best practices and advice from the Department of Revenue as well as implementing cost
sharing collaboratives and is pursuing organization and operational reviews and exploring
a town charter.

PUBLIC COMMENT. The following public comments were taken:
  • Questions on property taxes and looking for explanation on assessments.
  • Clear Gov and migration to Office 365 are a big plus and the town should look
     into adding Teams suite. Suggest website have a link that fully explains the tax
     assessment process.
  • Comment regarding the mission statement and how level of services is measured
     and how do we attract and maintain new growth through commercial
     development.
  • Upset at earlier response from a board member to a resident and wants to know
     why a member of the Assessors was not invited to the meeting to answer
     questions.




January 24, 2024                            6
    •   Impressed with the presentation and its transparency. Disappointed with the failed
        override but appreciated the Board’s desire to be creative in finding other revenue
        sources for the town.
    •   Question on tax growth/who is accountable to the people of the town?
    •   No standards or guidance put forth by Assessors. Why isn’t the Town
        Administrator/Select Board holding Assessors accountable?
    •   Town department heads should not work remotely and should live in Marblehead.
        Cannot find anyone at Mary Alley to answer his questions because they are not
        there. The public should be able to make appointments.
    •   We have a decentralized form of government locally, which has amazing
        positives, and occasionally some negatives, it is the role of the Board of Assessors
        to be answering these questions and handling these issues. Comment also on base
        levy and new growth, revenue projections and free cash.
    •   What we invest in as a town shows what we all value.
    •   Are expense projections based on current services? If the town is not asking for
        override what about the schools?
    •   The children of Marblehead deserve exemplary education and the current budget
        does not allow that. Positions were left unfilled at the schools because they could
        not attract candidates. Town will lose families coming into town if not in good
        financial health. Town and Schools should work together.

The Chair thanked everyone for the comments and discussion that was had.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:20 p.m. All in favor.



                                      Kyle A. Wiley
                                      Administrative Aide


List of documents used: FY25 State of Town PowerPoint presentation.




January 24, 2024                             7
