                                   SELECT BOARD

                                       MINUTES

                                    August 28, 2024

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street
The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                        Dan Fox
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                     Bret T. Murray
                                     Alexa J. Singer

                       Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of August 28, 2024 to order. This meeting is being
recorded.

PUBLIC COMMENT. The Board received public comment from many residents on
the pros and cons of holding a Special Town Meeting to vote on the MBTA Communities
Act.

LICENSING. Marblehead Brewing Co., 124 Pleasant Street. Alter Premises.
Reverend Father Andrew (Bushell), Tracey M. Stockton and Elizabeth Keeley, Butters
Brazilian LLP, Counsel for applicant, appeared before the Board seeking to alter the
premises on the existing Farmer Brewery Pouring Permit License. After review a motion
was made to approve the application from Marblehead Brewing Co. LLC, 124 Pleasant
Street, to alter the premises on the Farmer Brewery Pouring Permit §19C(n), # 03795-
BP-0656, as presented, and subject to all taxes and fees to the Town being paid, receipt of
all applicable departmental approvals, a valid Certificate of Inspection for 2024-2025, a
Certificate of Occupancy as appropriate and compliance with Chapter 304 of the Acts of
2004. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board
voted as follows: Mr. Fox, in favor; Mr. Murray, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs.
Grader, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor.

DISABILITIES COMMISSION. Interview / Appointment. Maura Dartley-Rocco
appeared before the Board seeking appointment to the Disabilities Commission. Motion
made and seconded to appoint Maura Dartley-Rocco to the Disabilities Commission with
a term to expire in June 2027. All in favor.

HISTORICAL COMMISSION. Interview. Appointment. Chris Butler appeared
before the Board seeking appointment to the Historical Commission. Motion made and
seconded to appoint Chris Butler to the Historical Commission with a term to expire in
June 2027. All in favor.

HARBORS AND WATERS BOARD. Interviews. Steven Wolf and Karen Finocchio
(remote) appeared before the Board as it relates to serving on the Harbors and Waters
Board. The Board discussed how to balance the qualifications of the members on the
Harbors and Waters Board. The Chair and Mr. Grader will reach out to the chair of
Harbors and Waters to discuss and get his thoughts on this. The Board will continue the
reappointment discussion at their next meeting.

BOARD OF ASSESSORS. Reserve Fund Transfer Request. Aleesha Benjamin,
Chief Financial Officer, appeared before the Board on behalf of the Board of Assessors,
seeking approval for a Reserve Fund Transfer request in the amount of $45,000 for real
estate consulting services. The Board discussed this request at their previous meeting and
sought more information before approving the request. After discussion motion made
and seconded to authorize John Kelley, Board of Assessors, to appear before the Finance
Committee to request the transfer of the sum of forty-five thousand dollars 00/100
($45,000.00) from the Reserve Fund in accordance with chapter 40, section 6 of the
Massachusetts General Laws. All in favor.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS. Votes of the Board. Motion made and seconded to
approve the following consent agenda items except those placed on hold:
8a.     Minutes of August 14, 2024
8b.     Rev 250 Committee, use of Old Town House and Abbot Hall, on September 21
and September 22, 2024 subject the usual rules, regulations, fees and required Certificate
of Insurance naming the Town of Marblehead as additionally insured.
8d.     Abbot Public Library request to declare the following items as follows and no
longer needed for municipal purpose and available for disposition in accordance with
MGL Chapter 30B and the Town’s policy on surplus equipment: see attached list
8.c     One Day Liquor License from Kearsarge Lodge #217, 114 Elmwood Street,
Swampscott, for a one-day liquor license on Saturday, November 9, 2024, 7:00 p.m. to
11:00 p.m. subject to the following conditions:
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50).
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
    • Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.
    • Liquor Liability Insurance
    • Alcohol is not allowed to be left unattended or stored on the premise overnight
    • Alcohol will be purchased from Wonder Soul, Beverly.
All in favor.

MBTA Communities Act. Discussion. The Board held a lengthy discussion on the
MBTA Community Act. The Board discussed the need to gather more information for
consideration before initiating the process for a Special Town Meeting and asked the
Town Administrator and CFO to compile current information regarding the potential

impacts of non-compliance and to present this information to the Board at their next
meeting.

CEMETERY COMMISSION. Resignation(s). The Board received letters of
resignation, effective immediately, from Pam Peterson and Janet Merrill. The Board will
hold a joint meeting with the Cemetery Commission on September 25, 2024 to interview
and appoint to the Cemetery Commission. Letters of interest and resumes should be sent
to the Select Board, Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street, or email
wileyk@marblehead.org. Letters of interest are due September 20, 2024.

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR UPDATE. The Town Administrator updated the Board as
follows:
    • Treasurer/Collector Office – reviewed cash reconciliation, management of Town
       investments and IRS Tax Withholding Reporting. Due to significant turn over in
       staff the past six years incorrect and late federal payroll withholding filings have
       occurred. The Treasurer/Collector and our auditors are compiling historical tax
       information and working with the IRS to revolve this. The Treasurer/Collector has
       implemented new financial policies and procedures and identified crucial system
       issues requiring resolution and will continue to address all these concerns.
    • The Harbormaster will be featured on an episode of Chronicle this week
       highlighting the “gatekeepers” of Harbors.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS. The Board thanked the Treasurer and
Finance Director for a job well done. The Board will set a date for a retreat in September
to finish up goal setting they started at their August retreat.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:00 p.m. All in favor.

                                     Kyle A. Wiley
                                     Administrative Aide

List of documents used: Town Administrator update//Ltrs of interest; Chris Butler,
Maura Dartley-Rocco, Steven Wolf, Karen Finocchio/draft minutes 8.14.24/Rev 250
Committee request to use OTH and AH/1 day liquor request, Kearsarge Lodge #217/Ltrs
of resignation from Pam Peterson and Janet Merrill (Cemetery Commission)

