                                   SELECT BOARD

                                       MINUTES

                                      July 24, 2024

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street
The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                   Erin M. Noonan
                                       Dan Fox
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                    Bret T. Murray

                       Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of July 24, 2024 to order. This meeting is being recorded.
The Chair advised the Board that she has made a few changes to the order of the agenda
by moving public comment and Town Administrator update to the top of the agenda.

PUBLIC COMMENT. None.

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR UPDATE. The Town Administrator updated the Board as
follows:
    • Harbor improvement projects: Phase 1 of the Harbor Plan Design has been
       completed and the Town is initiating Phase 2 seeking grant money. Over past
       four years the Town has received $898,678.00 in grants in order to do these
       projects, primarily the design and permitting and some improvements; Cliff Street
       accessibility project recently completed. Initiating a phase of the Harbor Plan for
       State Street Landing and Harbor Masters area, Tuckers Wharf, resiliency project
       and requesting $210,502 in grants. A meeting of the Harbor Plan Implementation
       Committee will be scheduled in the next few weeks.
    • Redds Pond Imrovements – contract underway for design and permitting for the
       walkway, walls and water quality.
    • Employee updates – Town Planner, Veteran’s Agent, Assistant Treasurer
       Collector and GIS (Geographical Information Systems) positions have all been
       filled with start dates in August and September. The Grant Coordinator position
       is currently vacant and posted.

FINANCE COMMITTEE. FY25 Budget Update. Alec Goolsby, Chair, Finance
Committee, appeared before the Board. The Finance Committee is starting the budget
process earlier this year acknowledging the challenges facing the Town. A summary
was presented showing where the Finance Committee will start in their planning as they
review department budgets and health care in depth which will allow them to show a long
term financial forecast (3-5 years) that would provide the Board and the taxpayers with a
credible and more detailed analysis. The Board asked questions throughout the

presentation regarding the town’s new financial technology and the capacity to gather
data and integrate it and how pending union contracts may affect this process and how
assumptions are made. The Board thanked Alec for this very in-depth review.

HARBORS AND WATERS. Boatyard Request for Proposals (RFP). Discussion.
Gary Gregory, Chair, Harbors and Waters Board, appeared before the Board to discuss
the Request for Proposal (RFP) for the town boatyards that is expected to be put out next
week and to give the Board a history of the tenant and how the arrangements with the
Harbors and Waters Board has functioned and the benefits provided. This is a ten-year
lease with the Town. Gary explained that this is a combination of a lease and a license
and went in depth speaking to the operations and revenues received by the Town as well
as the timeline for putting the RFP out. Discussion was had regarding other options to
undesignate the beach area of Parker’s Boatyard for potential redevelopment. It was
discussed that this process would take at least 7 years if it were started now. The Board
thanked Gary for coming before them.

HARBORS AND WATERS BOARD. Reappointments update. Rescind votes. The
Chair stated that since their last meeting it has been determined that the makeup of the
Harbors and Waters Board is determined by Town Bylaw and therefore cannot be
amended by the Select Board. Motion made and seconded to rescind the previous votes
of the Board on July 10, 2024 to reorganize the Harbors and Waters Board and to change
the terms on the Harbors and Waters Board. All in favor.

VOTES OF THE SELECT BOARD. Consent Agenda Votes. The Chair noted that in
reviewing other city and Town meeting agendas, the Board may group many of their
standard and routine business matters under one Consent Agenda item, Votes of the
Select Board, and take one vote to approve all items listed under the consent agenda.
Should a Board member wish to discuss a specific item they can either hold that item or
have a discussion, make comment, before the vote is taken. The Board agreed to move
forward with this and see how it works. The Chair will take the vote for 1- day liquor
license first as has been the past practice of the Board.

LICENSING. One Day liquor license. Marblehead Little Theatre. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Marblehead Little Theatre, 12 School Street,
for a one-day liquor license on Saturday, August 17, 2024, 7:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.
subject to the following conditions:
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50).
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
    • Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.
    • Alcohol will be purchased from Bentwater Brewery
Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Murray. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Fox, in favor; Mr. Murray, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in
favor.

Consent Agenda Items: Motion made and seconded to approve the following Consent
Agenda items except those placed on hold:
6.1 Minutes of June 26, 2024 and July 10, 2024.
6.2 Request from Kurt Bianculli to use Abbot Hall auditorium on Sunday, August 3,
2024 from 10am – 2pm for an Eagle Scout Ceremony subject the usual rules, regulations,
fees and required Certificate of Insurance naming the Town of Marblehead as
additionally insured and to waive the rental fee for this event.
6.3 Reappoint Michael Fuenfer to the Old and Historic Districts Commission, Alternate
Member, with a term to expire in June 2025.
6.4 Request from Chris Saulnier and Jennie Sheridan, Dollars for Scholars, to hold their
annual Run for the Fund 5K on Sunday, October 6, 2024 from 7:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m.
subject to approval from Police, Fire, Recreation and Parks Department, Police Details
and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance, naming the Town of Marblehead as
additionally insured. No permanent markings are allowed on the streets and any
temporary markings must be removed at the conclusion of the event.
All in favor.

CONTRACTS. Consent Agenda Votes. Motion made and seconded to approve the
following Consent Agenda items, Contracts, with the Town, and contract related votes,
except those placed on hold:
7.1 PURVIS Fire Station Alerting System in the amount of two hundred forty-one
thousand one hundred fifty-four dollars and 80/100 ($241,154.80) and to authorize the
Chair so sign on behalf of the Board.
7.2 Council on Aging, reject all bids received June 14, 2024 for the COA Diner Project
as the bids exceeded the available funding for the project
7.3 Walter Jacobs Architects LTD, for Architectural Services related to designing,
bidding support and construction phase services (including code required construction
control) for the replacement of an existing 3-season room in the amount not to exceed
twenty-eight thousand, five hundred dollars and 00/100 ($28,500.00) and to authorize the
Chair to sign on behalf of the Board.
7.4 Hayden Safe and Lock Inc. contract for the Mary Alley Building Electronic Locks
project in the amount of nineteen thousand six hundred and four dollars and 40/100
($19,604.40) and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board.
All in favor.

WATER AND SEWER COMMISSION. Rate Setting Notification. The Board
received notification that the Water and Sewer Commission held a public hearing on June
25, 2024 for the purpose of setting Water and Sewer Rates and Fees for Fiscal Year 2025.

COUNCIL ON AGING. Letters of Interest. The Board received letters of interest to
serve on the Council on Aging from the following: Jim Zisson, Meredith Reardon, Lisa
Palmer. The Board will receive letters of interest to serve on the Council on Aging until
August 9, 2024 and interview applicants on August 14, 2024. Letters of interest should
be sent to Select Board, Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street or email
wileyk@marblehead.org.

HOUSING PRODUCTION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION COMMITTEE.
Resignation. The Board receive a letter of resignation from Louis Meyi, Housing
Production Plan Implementation Committee. Motion made and seconded to accept with
regret and send a letter of appreciation. All in favor.

SELECT BOARD RETREAT. The Chair discussed the Board’s upcoming retreat on
August 23, 2024 seeking input from the Board on agenda items. The Chair stated she
would like to put both short- and long-term goals as item of discussion as well as Capital
and long-term financial planning. The Board discussed bringing in someone to facilitate
the retreat. There are several retired former Town Administrators who do this. The
Town Administrator will reach out through his connections to get someone on board to
facilitate the retreat.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS. Members expressed their thoughts on the
consent agenda format and agreed it is efficient but would like to have the option to call
out, or hold some votes, to allow for discussion as well as acknowledge certain requests
with further details and to provide more information to the public listening in. The Chair
will continue to review this format moving forward.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:53 p.m. All in favor.

                                            Kyle A. Wiley
                                            Administrative Aide

List of documents used: Boatyard diagrams/draft minutes June 26th and July 10th/Banculli request to use
Abbot Hall/Dollars for Scholars 5k request/Marblehead Museum (3) 1 day liquor licenses/PURVIS
contract/W&S Rate notification/COA letters of interest, Meredith Reardon, Lisa Palmer, Jim Zisson.

