                                  SELECT BOARD

                                      MINUTES

                                 September 25, 2024

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street
The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                  Erin M. Noonan
                                      Dan Fox
                                 M. C. Moses Grader
                                   Bret T. Murray

                      Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of September 25, 2024 to order. This meeting is being
recorded.

PUBLIC COMMENT. The following public comment was taken:
  • Ron Knight, VFW Post 2005, came before the Board to thank them for approval
     to use an image of the Spirit of ’76 on a Challenge Coin and to present each
     Board member with a Challenge Coin.
  • Albert Jordan commented on; Assessors Office and how do residents seek relief
     from erroneous valuation last winter and the Cemetery Commission and the need
     to look at what is going on up there.

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR UPDATE. The Town Administrator advised that Board
on the following:
    • Grant Coordinator starts September 30, 2024.
    • Department Heads and staff took part in a Commbuys Training past week.

CEMETERY COMMISSION. Interviews. Appointments. The Board met in joint
session with Richard Coletti, Chairman of the Cemetery Commission, to interview
applicants for the two vacancies on the Cemetery Commission. The following applicants
were interviewed: Peter Lake, Rose McCarthy, David Rodgers and Jerry Tucker.
Motion made and seconded to place all names into nomination. All in favor.
On a polled vote the Board and Commission voted as follows:
Mr. Coletti - Mr. Rodgers
Mr. Fox - Mr. Rodgers
Mr. Murray - Mr. Rodgers
Mr. Grader - Mr. Rodgers
Mrs. Noonan - Mr. Rodgers
David Rodgers appointed to the Cemetery Commission with a term to expire in June
2025.

On a 2nd polled vote the Board and Commission voted as follows:
Mr. Coletti - Mr. Lake
Mr. Fox - Mr. Tucker
Mr. Murray - Mr. Tucker
Mr. Grader - Mr. Tucker
Mrs. Noonan - Mr. Tucker
Jerry Tucker appointed to the Cemetery Commission with a term to expire in June 2025.

CONSENT AGENDA VOTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the following
Consent Agenda items except those put on hold:

MINUTES of August 23, 2024, September 11, 2024 and September 20, 2024.

COMPANY TO HEREOS, 5K, September 13, 2025 subject to approval from Police,
Fire, Recreation and Parks Department, Police Details and receipt of the required
Certificate of Insurance, naming the Town of Marblehead as additionally insured. No
permanent markings are allowed on the streets and any temporary markings must be
removed at the conclusion of the event.

TEMPORARY PARKING RESTRICTIONS – Chamber of Commerce Halloween
Trick or Treat. Close Washington Street from the bottom of Pleasant Street to
Rockaway Street for the Chamber of Commerce Halloween Trick or Treat on Thursday,
October 24, 2024 from 4:00 – 6:00 p.m. subject to approval from Police and Fire.

ABBOT HALL, MHS Annual Art Show, May 12 – 29. 2025 and to use Abbot Hall on
Friday, May 23, 2025 for an opening reception, subject to the usual rules, regulations,
fees and coordination of the schedule with the Select Board office.

HISTORICAL COMMISSION, Establish Donation Account, for the purpose of
raising funds for the Museum of Marblehead History at Abbot Hall. Donations may be
sent to Abbot Hall with checks made payable to Town of Marblehead and noting
Museum of Marblehead History.

ABBOT HALL – Wedding Rehearsal and Bell Ringing request from Will Brinton and
Meredith O’Hare. Wedding rehearsal on October 25, 2024 and to ring the Bells at Abbot
Hall on Saturday, October 26, 2024 immediately following the ceremony, for 2 minutes,
subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees and receipt of the required Certificate of
Insurance.

ABBOT HALL, November 11, 2024 Veterans Town Hall. Congressman Seth
Moulton, November 11, 2024, subject to the usual rules, regulations and fees.

ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY, to declare surplus the following items as follows and no
longer needed for municipal purpose and available for disposition in accordance with
MGL Chapter 30B and the Town’s policy on surplus equipment: see attached list.

POLICE INDEMNIFICATION of Officer Clark for injuries sustained while on duty
September 23, 2024.

All in favor.

CONSENT AGENDA VOTES. Contracts. Motion made and seconded to approve the
following Consent Agenda items, Contracts, except those put on hold:

COUNCIL ON AGING - reject all bids for Café project.

Collins Engineers. Release and Closeout Support. Award a contract between the
Town and Collins Engineers for Release Evaluation & Closeout Support for MassDEP
Notice of Non-Compliance at Cliff Street Boatyard in the amount of sixty-two thousand
and one hundred and twenty dollars ($62,120) and to authorize the Chair to sign on
behalf of the Board.

Statewide Flooring. Police Station. Award a contract for Police Station Stairwells to
Statewide Flooring Inc, in the amount of five thousand two hundred and forty-eight
dollars and 00/100 ($5,248.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board.

Toole Design. Swampscott Rail Trail. Engineering / Design Services. Award a
contract to Toole Design Inc. of Boston, MA for 2024-014 Swampscott Rail Train
Engineering and Design Services, in the amount of One Hundred and Eighty-Seven
Thousand Five Hundred Eighty-Two /100 ($187,582.00) and authorize the Chair to sign
the contract on behalf of the Board.

Greenman-Pederson. Rail Trail Marblehead. Amend the contract between the Town
and Greenman-Pedersen, Inc. of Bedford, NH for Design and Permitting of Bridge
Replacement at Village Street Over the Rail Trail in the Town of Marblehead, by
increasing the completion Date to September 30, 2025, with no increase in the contract
amount and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board.

All in favor.

BOATYARD LICENSE/LEASE AGREEMENT. Motion made and seconded to
award the Lease of a portion of the boatyard at Cliff Street and Commercial Street
(formerly known as Cloutman’s Boatyard on the waterfront at Marblehead Harbor,
together with appurtenant buildings) for operation of a boatyard providing marine
services to the public and a License to operate the Town boat storage program using
certain space in the boatyard at Redstone Lane (formerly known as Parker’s Boatyard)
year-round and certain space in the Cliff Street Boatyard for seasonal winter-only storage
to Marblehead Trading Company of Marblehead, . The Lease and License will be
awarded for the period of September 2024 through July 31, 2034 in the amount of
amount of $5000.00 per month (with an annual CPI increase) for the Lease and a
minimum of $137,000 per year in accordance with the schedule of limitations of use for
the License. All in favor.

ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY. Private Grant Accounts. Kim Grad, Abbot Public
Library Director and Molly Bushman, APLF Treasurer, appeared before the Board
seeking approval to establish three private grant accounts. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Kim Grad, Abbot Public Library Director, to establish the
following three private grant accounts in which the Abbot Public Library Foundation can
contribute a grant on a regular basis for the sole benefit and use by Abbot Public Library
as follows:
    • Support Library functions; programs, services, technology needs and staff
        development
    • Korean American cultural, art, literature, history and educational exchange
    • Sponsoring programming and materials dedicated to the subject (and intersection
        of) Medicine and Technology
All in favor.

LARZ ANDERSON TRUST FUND. Settlement of Final Account. The Town
Administrator advised the Board on the status of the Larz Anderson Trust. The Trustee
has completed the sale of the last piece of real estate owned by the Trust and the
Agreement to Settlement of the Final Account is ready for a Board vote. Motion made
that the Select Board authorize the Chair to execute the 1030 22nd Avenue Realty Trust
Agreement Regarding Settlement of Final Account (“Agreement”) involving the last
significant distribution of the Lars Anderson Trust ($800,000) of which the Town is the
sole beneficiary. There may be one further distribution of remainder funds following the
closure of accounts. The purpose of the Agreement is to accept the First and Final
Account, to forgo a formal judicial settlement of the account and to release the Trustee
accordingly all as set forth in the Agreement. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr.
Fox. All in favor.

TREE REMOVAL. 166 Front Street. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Jon Fobert, Tree Warden, to remove the Cedars, including stumps, at 166
Front Street, ID: 4051, to mitigate the restricted Fire Department access. All in favor.

TOWN CLERK. Early Voting Hours. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from the Town Clerk that Early Voting take place at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington
Street as presented. October 19 – November 1, 2024. All in favor.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License. Bent Water Brewing. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Matt Maguire, Bent Water Brewing Company, for
a one-day liquor license on Saturday, October 5, 2024, 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. at the Lee
Mansion, 161 Washington Street, subject to the following conditions:
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50).
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.
    • Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of G. L. c. 138.

    • Alcohol will be purchased from Bent Water Brewing Company
Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Fox. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Fox, in favor; Mr. Murry, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in
favor.

LETERS OF INTEREST. Motion made and seconded to accept the following letters of
interest received: Harris Street Oversight Committee; Ed Nilsson, Ellen Harrington, John
Fasanello, David Bitermann / Cultural Council: Joe Dipoli.

The Board set a deadline of October 4, 2024, to submit letters of interest to serve on the
Harris Street Oversight Committee. Applicants will be interviewed on Wednesday,
October 9, 2024.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS. The Chair extended a commendation to the
Finance Department and Treasurer for their continued efforts to optimize all the revenue
sources for the Town and capturing higher interest rates and being very diligent around
our investments.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:15 p.m. All in favor.

                                      Kyle A. Wiley
                                      Administrative Aide

List of documents used: Resumes; Peter Lake, Rose McCarthy, Dave Rodgers, Jerry
Tucker / draft minutes, Aug. 23rd, Sept. 11th, Sept. 20, 2024/ Company to Heroes
5K/Chamber of Commerce Trick or Treat request/MHS request to use Abbot
Hall/Historical Commission request for donation account/Wedding rehearsal and bell
ringing, Abbot Hall/ Abbot Hall, Veterans Town Hall, Congressman Moulton/Abbot
Library Surplus/Police Department Indemnification/COA request to reject all
bids/Boatyard License/Lease agreement/Larz Anderston Final Settlement/Abbot Library
request for private fund accounts/Tree Warden request to remove tree, Front St/Town
Clerk, Early Voting notification/1 day Liquor request, Bent Water Brewing/Letters of
interest: Ed Nilsson, Ellen Harrington/John Fasanello/Dave Bitermann/Joe Dipoli.

