                                   SELECT BOARD

                                       MINUTES

                                      July 23, 2025

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street, Select
Board Meeting Room

The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                    Dan Fox, Chair
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                     Alexa J. Singer
                                    James R. Zisson

                       Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of July 23, 2025, to order.

PUBLIC COMMENT. Nick Ward addressed the Board (remote) related to the list of
infrastructure projects that the Town may have to look for alternative funding due to
noncompliance with 3A Bylaw and asked the Town Administrator if the Town would
track additional funding sources for infrastructure projects, particularly focusing on
potential cost increases due to delays and maintenance expenses during the wait for
permanent repairs.

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR UPDATE. The Town Administrator updated the Board
on the following:
Elm Street Park Project - A 7-foot-deep cistern was discovered during construction
work, built in 1858 with granite blocks. After obtaining additional funding from the
board, the team transformed the problem into a solution by integrating the granite blocks
into the design of Elm Street Park, creating beautiful steps and seating. The remaining
granite blocks were taken by public works for future use. This project is funded partially
through ARPA and neighborhood fundraising efforts, with each phase dependent on
securing further funding.
Marine Corps 250th Anniversary –As part of Marine Week in Boston celebrating the
250th anniversary of the United States Marine Corps a potential event is scheduled to
take place in Marblehead on August 21, 2025, at Fort Sewall. The event will likely draw
regional attendance and include a ceremony, silent drill, and cake cutting at Fort Sewell,
with the entire event lasting approximately 3 hours. The main activities will occur in
Boston starting on August 20th with Marblehead's event serving as an important venue to
recognize the town's historical connection to the Marine Corps. The Town Administrator
will coordinate with Department Heads and bring more details and potential parking
restrictions to the Select Board at a future meeting.



July 23, 2025                               99
AMBULANCE CONTRACT. John Morris, President, Beauport Ambulance Services,
Inc., appeared before the Board. The Town Administrator reviewed the details of a new
ambulance service contract between Marblehead, Swampscott, and Beauport Ambulance.
This is a joint contract, approved by Swampscott the night before, which will provide
enhanced competitiveness and include provisions for response times, performance
oversight, and a 6-month notification period for municipalities to opt out. Beauport,
which has experience serving multiple towns, will provide one fully staffed ALS
ambulance and additional BLS coverage, with new co-branded vehicles. The contract
includes a 5% annual profit donation to community organizations and begins on August
15th, with Beauport already having acquired and prepared new ambulances for the
service. The change will be seamless with no loss of service, as the previous provider has
agreed to an orderly transition. Beauport will offer modern equipment, better employee
retention, and dedicated service, which would improve response times and service levels.
There are potential cost savings due to a zero bid and the fact that the new provider
would handle replacements for medical supplies, which were previously a cost to the
organization. After discussion motion made and seconded to approve the contract
between the Town and Beauport Ambulance Service, Inc., as presented and prepared by
Town Counsel. All in favor.

LICENSING. Secondhand Dealer. Steven Manchini appeared before the Board
seeking a Secondhand Dealers License. Motion made and seconded to approve the
application for a Secondhand Dealers License for Marblehead Custom Jewelry, 66
Washington Street, Steven Manchini, subject to receipt of the required fees, forms and
CORI approval. All in favor.

PRIVATE DRAIN CONNECTION.                18 Orchard Street. Motion to approve the
License for Private Drain Connection between the Town and Doug Larose and Bella James,
18 Orchard Street, as presented, and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board.
All in favor.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of May 28, 2025. Four
voted in favor, Mr. Zisson voted present. Motion made and seconded to approve the
minutes of June 25, 2025. All in favor.

CONTRACTS. Motion made and seconded to approve the following Contracts for the
Town or Marblehead and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board:

AMEND 2024-041 Marblehead Rail Trail Smith to Pleasant Street between the
Town and Raffaele Construction Corp of Swampscott for 2024-041 Marblehead Rail
Trail Smith St to Pleasant St Project by extending the date of the contract performance to
September 30, 2025, resulting in no change to the total contract amount.

AWARD contract for Professional Engineering Service between the Town and
Woodard & Curran, Inc. of 40 Shattuck Road of Andover, MA 01810 in the amount not
to exceed one hundred and ninety-five thousand dollars and no cents ($195,000.00).



July 23, 2025                              100
All in favor.

PERMISSION. Half Marathon. Yukcanrun.com. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from YukanRun.com, to hold a half marathon on April 12, 2026, at
9:00 a.m. subject to approval from Police and Fire, School Department, police details and
the required Certificate of Liability. No permanent markings are allowed on the streets,
and any temporary markings must be removed at the conclusion of the event. All in
favor.

LICENSING. 1 Day Liquor License(s). Kearsarge Lodge. Motion to approve the
following application for two (2) One Day Liquor License(s), Wine and Malt Beverage
only, from the Kearsarge Lodge for November 7, 2025, and November 8, 2025, from
7:00 – 10:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall subject to the following conditions:
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50 each).
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
    • Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.
    • Authorized distributor to be determined before license is released
    • Receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance
    • Wine and Malt Beverages only
    • No alcohol is allowed to remain on the premises unattended or overnight.
    • Alcohol will be purchased from Merrimack Valley.
Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mrs. Noonan. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Zisson, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Noonan,
in favor; Mr. Fox, in favor.

COMPREHENSIVE MASTER PLAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE. Select Board
Representative. The Community Development and Planning Department along with the
Planning Board are seeking a representative from the Select Board to serve on the Master
Plan Advisory Committee. The Chair asked who may be interested in serving and both
Mrs. Noonan and Mr. Zisson expressed interest. Motion made and seconded to appoint
James R. Zisson to the Comprehensive Master Plan Advisory Committee. All in favor.

MARBLEHEAD FOREVER COMMITTEE. Request for Proclamation. Motion
made and seconded to prepare a proclamation in honor of the 2025 Marblehead Forever
Award. All in favor.

LETTERS OF INTEREST. The Board received letters of interest from:
Matthew Burke, Harbors & Waters Board
Steve McClure Cultural Council
Andrew Gillis, Council on Aging




July 23, 2025                             101
The Board will receive letters of interest to serve on the Harbors & Waters Board,
Council on Aging and Cultural Council with a deadline to apply of August 29, 2025. The
Board will schedule interviews for a future meeting date.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS. Mr. Grader proposed sending a letter to the
Marine Corps Delegation thanking them for their visit and expressing the Town’s support
in the upcoming Marine Corp anniversary celebration event proposed for August 21,
2025, noting it would be an honor for the Town to be considered, and the town looks
forward to working with everyone involved. Discussion was had around questions from
Board members relating to the date and venue for the event and coordinating with public
safety and various departments. Motion made and seconded to have the Town
Administrator send a letter to the Delegation. All in favor.

Motion to adjourn at 7:50 p.m.



                                    Kyle A. Wiley
                                    Administrative Aide

List of documents used: Town Administrator update / Draft Ambulance Contract /
Secondhand Dealer application / Private Drain Connection License 18 Orchard /
YukanRun half marathon request / Kearsarge Lodge (2) 1 day liquor licenses /
Marblehead Forever request for proclamation.




July 23, 2025                            102
