                                  SELECT BOARD
                                     MINUTES

                                   January 22, 2025

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street
The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                   Erin M. Noonan
                                       Dan Fox
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                    Bret T. Murray
                                    Alexa J. Singer

                      Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of January 22, 2025, to order. This meeting is being
recorded.

PUBLIC COMMENT. None.

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR UPDATE. The Town Administrator updated the Board as
follows:
    • Mary Alley Building Improvements; carpeting, Building Department
       reconfiguration and new key card security system.
    • Community Development and Planning Director, Brendan Callahan, starting
       February 10, 2025.

WARRANT ARTICLES. 2025 Annual Town Meeting. The Town Administrator
reviewed the following articles to be placed on the Warrant for 2025 Annual Town
Meeting. These include standard, recurring articles as well as proposed articles.
    • Articles in Numerical Order
    • Reports of Town Officers and Committees
    • Assume Liability
    • Consent Agenda Articles: Assume Liability, Accept Trust Property, Lease Town
       Property, Contracts in Excess of Three Years
    • Departmental Revolving Funds
    • Purchase of Equipment of Several Departments
    • Lease Purchase
    • Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
    • Walls and Fences
    • Storm Sewer Construction
    • Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Administrative)
    • Proposed Pay Schedule and Reclassification (Traffic Supervisors)
    • Proposed Reclassification and Pay Schedule (Seasonal and Temporary Personnel)



January 22, 2025                           6
    •   Compensation - Town Officers
    •   Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District
    •   Collective Bargaining - Police
    •   Collective Bargaining – (IUE/CWA – Local 1776)
    •   Collective Bargaining – Fire
    •   MBTA 3A Multi Family Zoning Bylaw
    •   Coffin School Reuse
    •   Mary A. Alley Building, HVA System
    •   Age Requirement, Police. Rescind 2016 ATM Vote

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS, GENERAL Motion made and seconded to except the
following Consent Agenda Items except those put on hold:

MINUTES of December 11, 2024, December 23, 2024, and January 8, 2025.

SURPLUS EQUIPMENT -to declare the following items as surplus and no longer
needed for Municipal purpose so that they may be disposed of in accordance with the
Town’s policy on surplus equipment:
    • 1 wooden desk 5ft 10 inches long, 35” deep, 30” height
All in favor.

MBTA ADVISORY BOARD. Climate and Clean Energy Committee.
Appointment. Motion made and seconded to appoint Logan Casey, Sustainability
Coordinator, the Select Board’s representative on the MBTA Advisory Board’s Climate
and Clean Energy Committee. All in favor.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS, CONTRACTS. Motion made and seconded to approve
the following Consent Agenda Items, Contracts, for the Town of Marblehead, except
those put on hold, and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board:

Raffaele Construction, Elm Street Park Improvement Project by increasing the
contract amount by three thousand eight hundred dollars ($3,800.00).

Talty Floors, Inc., for the Mary Alley Offices Carpet Project, in the amount of fifty-
eight thousand eight hundred twenty-eight and 00/100 ($58,828.00).
All in favor.

GRANTS. Metropolitan Planning Organization. Letters of Support. Motion made
and seconded to send letters to the Metropolitan Planning Organization in support of a
grant program for proposed improvements to the Village Street Bridge and funding for
additional bike racks in Marblehead and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the
Board. All in favor.

HISTORICAL COMMISSION. FY25 Survey and Planning Grant. Motion made
and seconded to approve the request from Pat Franklin, Historical Commission, to submit
the FY25 Survey and Planning Grant, Marblehead Historical Properties Inventory – Old


January 22, 2025                           7
& Historic Districts Inventory Update, and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the
Board. All in favor.

PROCLAMATION. Motorcycle Safety Awareness Period. Motion made and
seconded to Proclaim March 23 – April 30, 2025, “Motorcycle Safety Awareness Period”
aimed at increasing awareness and reducing accidents. All in favor.

LETTERS OF INTEREST. The Board received letters of interest from the following:
       Joanna Rose-Grosz, Disability Commission
       Gene Record, Conservation Commission
The Board set a deadline of February 7, 2025, to submit letters of interest to serve on the
Conservation Commission. All interested applicants will be interviewed on February 12,
2025, at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall. Send letters of interest to Select Board, Abbot Hall,
188 Washington Street or email wileyk@marblehead.org.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Condolence. Motion made and seconded to send letters of condolence to the families of
Libby Moore and Ed Bell. All in favor.

Dan Fox advised the Board that the Gerry Playground project started sooner than
anticipated and will hopefully be completed earlier as well. Updates on the Gerry School
Playground Project can be found on www.marblehead.org.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 7:40 p.m. All in favor.



                                            Kyle A. Wiley,
                                            Administrative Aide


List of documents used: Town Administrator update / draft minutes 12.11.24, 12.23.24, 1.8.25/ draft letters
for MPO / FY25 Survey and Planning Grant application / request for Motorcycle Proclamation / Letters on
interest, Joanna Rose-Grosz and Gene Record.




January 22, 2025                                    8
