                                   SELECT BOARD

                                       MINUTES

                                      April 9, 2025

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street, Select
Board Meeting Room

The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                Erin M. Noonan, Remote
                                        Dan Fox
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     Bret T. Murray
                                     Alexa J. Singer

                       Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of April 9, 2025 to order.

PUBLIC COMMENT. None.

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR UPDATE. The Town Administrator updated the Board
on the following:
    • June Elections – Due to current issues with the Lift at the Old Town House and
        the Elevator at Abbot Hall, neither location will be Handicapped Accessible for
        the elections in June. Working with other town departments we are looking to
        relocate voting in June to the Field House at Marblehead High School. The
        current lift at the Old Town House cannot support repetitive use in short time
        spans due to a coolant issue and it shuts down trapping people inside. There is a
        State mandatory safety upgrade required for the elevator at Abbot Hall. This
        project has been procured and a contract awarded. Abbot Hall elevator will be
        shut down for 6-8 weeks to complete the work. Any change in location needs to
        be certified by the State before the Select Board can vote to relocate voting in
        June and the Town Clerk is required to give 20 days’ notice registered voters.
        The Town Administrator will advise the Board as more information becomes
        available.
    • Free Cash Certification update– all expenditures have been fully reconciled and
        documented on the expenditure side. Final reconciliation of the revenue accounts
        relative to the bank accounts is complete and we are working on the accounting
        side to complete this process.
    • The Town’s annual Employee Benefits Fair, organized by Amanda Viecelli,
        Benefits Coordinator, was held earlier today at Mary Alley and was very
        successful.

LICENSING. Eastern Yacht Club, Seasonal Annual and Sunday Entertainment
License. Jared Chorney, Eastern Yacht Club, appeared before the Board seeking an
annual and Sunday Entertainment License at 42-44 Foster Street. Motion made and
seconded to approve the request from Easter Yacht Club, 42-44 Foster Street, for a
Seasonal Annual and Sunday Entertainment License, for live music and DJ’s, Sunday
through Saturday 1:00 pm – 10:00 pm, subject to receipt of all fees, forms and approval
from the Department of Public Safety for entertainment on Sundays. All in favor.

ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY. National Library signs. Kim Grad, Director, Abbot
Public Library, appeared before the Board seeking approval to install 2 National Library
Signs on the public ways. The Board had an extended discussion on the purpose and
placement of the signs with the Chair noting that there has been an effort over the years
to clean up the excess number of signs in Town. After discussion a motion was made and
seconded to approve the request, as amended, from Kimberly Grad, Director, Abbot
Public Library, and amend the request to erect one National Library Sign subject to
review and approval by the Town Administrator and DPW Director. All in favor.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS, GENERAL Motion made and seconded to approve
the following Consent Agenda Items except those put on hold:

ABBOT HALL, Marblehead Pride Committee, Saturday, June 21, 2025, 2:00 – 4:00
p.m. subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees and receipt of the required Certificate of
Insurance

ABBOT HALL, Marblehead Museum, Saturday, April 26, 2025, 10:00 a.m. – 2:00
p.m. subject to the usual rules, regulations, fees and receipt of the required Certificate of
Insurance

FESTIVAL OF ARTS, Arts on the Avenue, Sunday, July 6, 2025, 2:00 – 5:00 p.m.,
subject to approval from Police and Fire and the required Certificate of Insurance naming
the Town as additionally insured.

SURPLUS EQUIPMENT -to declare the following items as surplus and no longer
needed for Municipal purpose so that they may be disposed of in accordance with MGL
30B and the Town’s policy on surplus equipment:
   • Abbot Public Library, large computer table

All in favor.

MARBLEHEAD TO HALIFAX RACE 2025. Message from Select Board. Motion
made and seconded to approve the request from Jay Watt, Rear Commodore, to prepare a
message from the Select Board for the 2025 Marblehead to Halifax Race Book as has
been the tradition since the start of the race in 1905. All in favor.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS, CONTRACTS. Motion made and seconded to
approve the following Consent Agenda Items, contracts with the Town, except those put
on hold and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board:

Award a contract #2025-012 MGT Impact Solutions LLC of Tampa, FL for the
Employee Classification Study Project in the amount of Seventy-eight thousand
seven hundred and eighty Dollars ($78,780.00)

Award a contract to Metropolitan Area Planning Committee (MAPC) for assistance
in creating a Town Comprehensive Plan in the amount of One Hundred Forty-
Three Thousand Dollars ($143,000)

All in favor.

LICENSING. 1 Day Liquor License(s). Marblehead Arts Association (2), Coastline
Marine Service. Motion to approve the requests for 1 Day Liquor License(s) from the
following:
    • Coastline Marine Service, 9 Sewall Street, May 3, 2025, 12:00 noon – 4:00 p.m.
    • Marblehead Arts Association, 8 Hooper Street (2) requests:
       May 8, 2025, 2:00 – 5:00 pm
       May 17, 2025, 5:00 – 9:00 pm

subject to the following conditions:
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50 each).
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.
    • Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of G. L. c. 138.
    • Liquor Liability Insurance for all events held on Town properties.
    • Alcohol is not allowed to be left unattended or stored on Town premises
       overnight.
Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Fox. On a polled voted the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Murray, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Fox, in
favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS, CONTRACTS. Amy Mchugh, DPW Director,
appeared before the Board to review contract change orders. Motion made and seconded
to approve the following Consent Agenda Items, contracts with the Town, except those
put on hold and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board:

Change Order No.01 to amend contract #2024-071 Marblehead Rail Trail
Swampscott Branch Early Construction Project Rehabilitation project between the Town
and Raffaele Construction Corp. of Swampscott MA, to extend the Time of
Performance to October 30, 2025, with no additional cost increase.

Change Order No.02 to approve option year 2 of the contract Pavement Management
– Support Services between the Town and APEX, DBA Environmental Partners of
Quincy MA. Contract Performance time to be March 31, 2024, to March 31, 2025, at a
cost not to exceed One Hundred Thousand Dollars and No Cents ($100,000.00).

Change Order No.03 to approve option year 3 of the contract Pavement Management
– Support Services, between the Town and APEX, DBA Environmental Partners of
Quincy MA. Contract Performance time to be March 31, 2025, to March 31, 2026, at a
cost not to exceed One Hundred Thousand Dollars and No Cents ($100,000.00).

All in favor.

LEASE. North Shore Medical Center. Alterations. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from North Shore Medical Center, to make alterations in accordance
with the Lease Agreement between the Town and North Shore Medical Center, executed
on March 6, 2023, under Section 17, ALTERATIONS AND INSTALLATION OF
EQUIPMENT. The estimate for the replacement of the existing air handler unit totals
$54,930.00. All in favor.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS. The Chair stated that at a Planning Board
meeting the previous night the Planning Board voted unanimously to recommend adoption of the
MBTA Compliance Plan.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 7:48 p.m. All in favor.

                                      Kyle A. Wiley,
                                      Administrative Aide

List of documents used: EYC request for entertainment license/Abbot Public Library
request for signs/Sustainable Marblehead, request for OTH/Pride Committee request for
Abbot Hall/Festival or Arts, Arts on the Avenue/Surplus equipment request, Abbot
Library/Boston Yacht Club request for welcome message for Halifax/1 day liquor license
requests: Marblehead Arts/Coastline Marine/NSMC request for improvements.

