                                   SELECT BOARD

                                      MINUTES

                                     May 14, 2025

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street, Select
Board Meeting Room

The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                Erin M. Noonan, Remote
                                        Dan Fox
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     Bret T. Murray
                                     Alexa J. Singer

                      Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of May 14, 2025, to order.

PUBLIC COMMENT. Albert Jordan addressed the Board regarding: keeping Town
Meeting at the MHS Field House / Sale of the Coffin School / color of police vehicles.

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR UPDATE. The Town Administrator updated the Board
on the following:

   •   Town Meeting – reviewed the successful implementation of moving Town
       Meeting to the MHS Field House. Adjustments to the technology setup were
       made and challenges faced with the clickers were resolved by rebooting the
       system. Due to accessibility, safety and comfort features, as well as IT access and
       the ability to have everything coordinated in one location, the MHS Field House
       can support all Town Meeting needs. The Town is coordinating with the relevant
       departments to permanently move Annual Town Meeting to the MHS Field
       House. In the coming year work on equipment upgrades, including a larger
       screen and more powerful projectors, to enhance the visual presentations.
       Gratitude was expressed towards the unsung heroes, including IT staff, school
       custodians, DPW, COA, Recreation and Parks, who helped make the event
       successful as well as the Star of the Sea, St. Stephens for additional parking and
       the communities of Westford and Hamilton for providing additional clickers,
       which supplemented the 1,500 clickers purchased.
   •   Chief King received a community leadership award at the Essex County Law and
       Education Day, hosted by the Anti-Defamation League, New England, along with
       Chief Ruben Caseda of Swampscott. The Chiefs worked together on dealing with
       the antisemitic issues and challenges in making the community feel safe after the

       events of October 7th. They were both recognized for their outstanding work in
       response to those issues.

TOWN CHARTER COMMITTEE. Update. Amy Drinker, Chair, Town Charter
Committee appeared before the Board to give a brief update on the Committee’s
progress. The committee has been reviewing draft A of the charter language. The
committee plans to continue fine-tuning the draft over the next 10 months, with the aim
of presenting it to the Select Board for review. The Charter will then be presented to
Town Meeting in May 2026 for review by the voters. The committee is organizing three
Public Forums in May to gather public feedback on the Charter as follows: Tuesday, May
27th, 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall and via zoom, Thursday, May 29th at the Council on Aging
at noontime and Friday, May 30th at 9:00 a.m. via webinar. The Committee is actively
seeking public input on the process. The Committee's plans for the upcoming months
include meeting with Jenny Armini to discuss the process of the Charter at the State level
and continue to review parts of the Charter. The Committee continues to work with the
Collins Center and Town Counsel to review the Charter.
Visit https://www.marbleheadma.gov/town-charter-committee for more information.

POLLING LOCATIONS. Change. The Chair stated, pursuant to the Board’s
discussion on April 23, 2025, the Old Town House remains unavailable for use as a
polling location due to ongoing accessibility challenges, and recognizing the impacts on
operations at the Jacobi Community Center, sought the following action:

Motion made and seconded that the Select Board, pursuant to Massachusetts General
Laws and in accordance with the requirements of the Secretary of the Commonwealth,
approve the following changes to the polling locations for the Town of Marblehead,
effective for the Annual Town Election scheduled for June 10, 2025:

Precincts 1 and 2: Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street
Precincts 3, 4, 5, and 6: Marblehead High School Field House, 2 Humphrey Street

These polling locations shall remain in effect until further vote of the Board and may also
be used for any subsequent special or referendum election, including any referendum
election duly scheduled by the Select Board upon certification of a referendum petition
by the Town Clerk, unless otherwise determined by the Board. Further, the Town Clerk
is hereby directed to take all necessary steps to notify the Secretary of the
Commonwealth, the public, and affected voters of these changes in accordance with
applicable law. All in favor.

HOME RULE PETITION. Article 28. Means Tested Senior Citizen Property Tax
Exemption. Motion that the Board adopt the Home Rule Petition as approved at May 7,
2025, Town Meeting, Article 28: Establish Means-Tested Senior Citizen Property Tax
Exemption, and submit same to the General Court. Moved by Mr. Fox, seconded by Mr.
Murray. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Fox, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in
favor; Mr. Murray, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor.

HOME RULE PETITION. Article 44. Parking Ticket Fines. Motion made that the
Select Board petition the General Court to amend Chapter 37 of the Acts of 2004 as voted
at the May 8, 2025, Town Meeting, Article 44, Parking Tickets – Increased Fees for
Snow Emergency. Moved by Mr. Fox, seconded by Mr. Murray. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Fox, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Murray, in favor;
Mr. Grader, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor.

VETERANS AGENT. Memorial Day. On behalf of Veterans Agent Roseann Tronfi-
Mazzuchelli, the Chair announced the following Memorial Day events:

Friday, May 23, 2025. 9:00 a.m. Veterans Breakfast at the Council on Aging sponsored
by the Masons then grave flagging at Star of the Sea Cemetery.
Saturday, May 24, 2025. 9:00 a.m. from the Bell Tower at Waterside Cemetery.
Veteran’s Grave Flagging. All are welcome to participate in honoring Marblehead’s
Veterans. Anyone needing a flag for a Veteran’s Grave may call the Veterans Office at
781-631-0990.
Sunday, May 25, 2025. 1:00 p.m. Veterans Service at Star of the Sea Cemetery. The
public is welcome.
Monday, May 26, 2025. Memorial Day Parade.
8:00 a.m. – Clark’s Landing for Memorial Service
8:30 a.m. - Muster at Old Town House
9:00 a.m. - Main parade begins; march to Memorial Park and then proceed to Waterside.

Trolley service will be available from the VFW at 7:30 a.m. for all Veterans who may
need assistance to participate in the activities. Breakfast will be served at the VFW after
the ceremonies. The public is invited and encouraged to attend all ceremonies.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS. GENERAL Motion made and seconded to approve
the following Consent Agenda Items except those put on hold:

Use of Abbot Hall, Friday, June 13, 2025, Juneteenth Committee, 5:00 p.m., subject
to the usual rules, regulations and fees paid to the Town.

Abbot Hall, Kearsarge Lodge #217, November 7-8, 2025, subject to the usual rules,
regulations, fees paid to the Town and coordination and final sign off by the Town
Administrator.

All in favor.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS, CONTRACTS. Motion made and seconded to
approve the following Consent Agenda Items, contracts with the Town, except those put
on hold and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board:

Change Order No. l, to amend contract 2024-064, COA/Recreation Bocce Facility
project between the Town and Price Landscaping & Construction in the amount of six
thousand, four hundred and fifty dollars ($6,450.00)

Amend contract 2024- 002, Abbot Hall Brick Runnels, with Raffaele Construction
by increasing the amount by three thousand six hundred dollars ($3,600.00) and extend
the contract time to September 30, 2025.

Award Contract 2025-014 to Achieve Renewable Energy, LLC of Salem, MA for
Geothermal Evaluation for Abbot Hall System in an amount not to exceed seven
thousand and ten dollars ($7,010.00).

Award contract 2025-013 to Gorman, Richardson, Lewis Architects of Hopkinton,
MA for the Roof design of the Mary Alley and Jacobi Community Center Buildings
in the amount of twenty-eight thousand nine hundred dollars ($28,900).

Amend contract 2024-044 with PURVIS Systems Inc, Fire Station Alerting System,
by amending language as presented.

RENEW annual license agreement with New Era Technology for Office 365 G3
GCC in the amount of forty-six thousand nine hundred and twenty dollars ($46,920.00).

All in favor.

MUNICIPAL SHIPYARD RESILIENCY PROJECT. Letter of Support. Motion
made and seconded to send a letter of support for the Town’s Port Infrastructure
Development Program application to build the Town’s Municipal Shipyard Resiliency
project and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

2025 TEMPORARY OUTDOOR DINING. Applications. The Board reviewed
applications for temporary outdoor dining and took the following vote:

Motion made to approve the following applications for 2025 Temporary Outdoor Dining
in accordance with the Town’s policy on Temporary Outdoor Dining:
        The Barrelman. 257 Washington Street
        5 Corners Kitchen, 2 School Street
subject to receipt of the required forms, fees, Insurance and approval from Police, Fire,
Building Commissioner and Town Administrator. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by
Mr. Fox. On a polled vote the Board voted as follow: Mr. Murray, in favor; Mr. Grader,
in favor; Mr. Fox, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor.

MARBLEHEAD BLOOD DRIVE. The Chair announced the Marblehead Community
Blood Drive on Thursday, June 5, 2025, at the Gerry 5, 210 Beacon Street, 9:00 a.m. –
7:00 p.m.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS. The Chair thanked the Community
Development and Planning Department for their presentation at Town Meeting.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 7:45 p.m. All in favor.

                                       Kyle A. Wiley
                                       Administrative Aide

List of documents used:Home Rule Petitions Draft Article 28/44; Juneteenth request for Abbot
Hall/Kearsarge Lodge request for Abbot Hall / New Era License renewal / Outdoor dining
applications 5CK, Barrelman / request Sustainability Coordinator for Lt re: Municipal Shipyard
Resiliency Project/Blood Drive notice.

