                                   SELECT BOARD

                                       MINUTES

                                      May 19, 2025

Board met in HYBRID session at 5:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street, Select
Board Meeting Room

The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                Erin M. Noonan, Remote
                                        Dan Fox
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                     Bret T. Murray
                                     Alexa J. Singer

                       Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of May 19, 2025, to order.

PUBLIC COMMENT. The following public comment was taken:

Nick Ward – believes it is a valid point that many people feel that a number of residents
did not have the opportunity to vote at Town Meeting which triggered this Special
Election and encouraged the Select Board to allay those concerns and to make available
every possible avenue for voting in the Special Election through early voting, mail in and
in person.

The Chair noted that mail in voting is available to all, by right, for all Elections. Early
voting decisions are made by the Board of Registrars who will be meeting next week to
consider this issue for the Annual Town Election on June 10th. The Chair has asked them
to consider early voting for the Special Election as well.

Yael Magen – feels the Select Board should have filed an exemption with the State
instead of the having a Special Town Election, but with that, thanked the Board and
Town Clerk for ensuring that voting is open for all through early voting and mail in
voting.

John Dipiano – agrees that everyone should have as much opportunity as possible to vote
on this issue and believes that Chapter 405 of the Special Acts of 1954 allows for
discretion with respect to 1) the time the polls close and 2) what margin of votes are
needed to reverse the vote of Town Meeting. Mr. Dipiano advocated that the polls stay
open until at least 10:00 p.m. at night and that the Select Board compromises on the
percentage of voters required to overturn, for this question only and without setting
precedence, and set this number at 15%.

SPECIAL TOWN ELECTION. Warrant. The Board took the following votes related
to the Special Town Election on July 8, 2025.

Motion made and seconded that prior public notice of the Select Board’s intention to call
a Special Town Meeting for the purpose of a Special Election for a vote on a citizens
petition pursuant to Chapter 405 of the Acts of 1954 be waived because in the opinion of
the Select Board they are required under the Act to take action forthwith. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded that a Special Town Meeting be called for July 8, 2025, for the
purpose of a Special Election to vote on a question from a citizens petition pursuant to
Chapter 405 of the Acts of 1954. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded that the Warrant be opened for insertion of a question. All in
favor.

Motion made and seconded that the Select Board place on the special election ballot the
question related to the citizens petition pursuant to Chapter 405 of the Acts of 1954 all as
set forth in the following Question 1:

Question 1
Shall the town vote to approve the action of the town meeting wherein the Town Meeting
voted to approve Article 23, the adoption of three G.L. c 40A sec. 3A zoning overlay
districts?
___ yes ___ no

A yes vote on Question 1 would affirm the Town’s adoption of the zoning amendment
described in the informational handout.

A no vote on Question 1 would repeal the Town’s adoption of the zoning amendment
described in the informational handout.

All in favor.

Motion made and seconded that the warrant for the Special Election to be held on July 8,
2025, is closed. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded that notice of this question be transmitted forthwith to the
Town Clerk. All in favor.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS.
Mr. Murray stated that in coming to the end of his term he has reflected on his positive
interactions with Board members and residents over the years. While being a board
member requires thick skin, it is disappointing to see the personnel attacks that take place
online and the polarization in our politics both domestically and internationally. Mr.

Murray asked that those who have attacked individual Board members online to
apologize to them.

Mr. Grader spoke of his belief that the Town has the mechanisms to debate and talk to
one and other as well as recognizing that what we are seeing on social media is that kind
of permission to go overboard but he maintains he has not lost faith in the towns capacity
to debate and pursue alternative legal means for people who may disagree with the
precedent that the Board may be setting with this mandate. The debate at the end of the
day will resolve in a vote that will be perceived as fair, and it should be, and hopes that
every Marbleheader takes this next step seriously and gets out to vote.

Mrs. Singer stated that she appreciates anyone who attends public meetings and speaks
at public meetings. She takes everything that residents say to heart and does her best to
process the information that was put before the Board. This has been a very complicated
and polarizing issue. The Board has worked hard to add communication platforms for
residents and encouraged all residents that have questions or concerns to reach out to the
Board members and voice their thoughts and opinions.

The Chair stated the Board has received a legal opinion on the referendum vote and
threshold opinion which would be made available to the public.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 5:20 p.m. All in favor.

                                       Kyle A. Wiley
                                       Administrative Aide

List of documents used: Motions for Special Election / Town Counsel opinion on referendum vote
and threshold

