                                  SELECT BOARD

                                      MINUTES

                                    January 8, 2025

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street
The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                        Dan Fox
                                    Bret T. Murray
                                    Alexa J. Singer

                      Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of January 8, 2025, to order. This meeting is being
recorded.

PUBLIC COMMENT. The following residents addressed the Board:
Albert Jordan expressed that there is no need for a general override/Finance Committee is
not listening to the residents.
Nick Ward addressed the recent ruling on the MBTA 3A Community Acts and feels the
Town should not rush to comply until the State puts out revised requirements and
guidelines.

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR UPDATE. The Town Administrator updated the Board as
follows:
    • MBTA Zoning decision issued – recent court decision settles the question that the
       Town needs to be in compliance with the law or legal actions can be taken by the
       Attorney General’s office to enforce compliance. The State intends to issue
       “emergency regulations” which would start the process to properly put the
       guidelines in place under regulatory authority for municipalities compliance.
    • Marblehead has received this year’s GFOA’s Distinguished Budget Presentation
       Award for its FY2025 budget.
    • Village Street Bridge project – Town has applied for funding to construct the
       Village Street Bridge and expects to hear from the State around April 2025.
    • Bicycle Parking Grant has been applied for to install bicycle racks at 20+
       locations around the community.
    • State of the Town is scheduled for Wednesday, February 5, 2025, at 6:00 p.m. at
       Abbot Hall.




January 8, 2025                            1
TOWN CHARTER COMMITTEE. Update. Amy Drinker, Chair, Town Charter
Committee, appeared before the Board to provide an update on the Committee’s work.
The Committee feels that there is insufficient time prior to May 2025 Town Meeting to
draft a charter document, discuss related issues, engage in public dialogue and present a
draft to the Select Board for review. In the coming months the Charter Committee will
continue its work meeting with Department Heads and Boards and Committees and
holding public forums. The Committee would like to give an update to May 2025 Town
Meeting with the draft charter coming before the Select Board in spring 2026 for
inclusion on the warrant for May 2026. The Chair expects that Charter Draft A will be
ready at the end of this month for the committee to start having substantive discussion
around. This Draft will be posted on the town’s website. The Collins Center and Town
Counsel will review and comment on draft charters as the committee moves through the
process.

Select Board thanked the Chair and Charter Committee for their continued hard work on
this very important project. Motion made and seconded to authorize the Town Charter
Committee to make a brief update at the 2025 Annual Town Meeting. All in favor.

OVERHANGING SIGN. 231 Washington Street. Elizabeth and Lindsey Fair
appeared before the Board seeking permission for an overhanging sign at 231
Washington Street. After review by the Board, motion made and seconded to approve
the application for an overhanging sign, as presented, at 231 Washington Street, subject
to a Sign Permit from the Building Department, receipt of all fees and the required
Certificate of Insurance naming the Town as additionally insured for a sign overhanging
the public way. All in favor.

CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE. Interviews. Appointments. The following
applicants appeared before the Board seeking appointment to the Capital Planning
Committee: William Anderson, David Harris, Mike Maniaci and Bert Pechhold. There
are three At Large vacancies on the Committee. Each applicant was interviewed by the
Board. Motion made and seconded to place all names into nomination to serve on the
Capital Planning Committee with a term to expire in June 2025. All in favor.

On a roll call vote the Board voted as follows:
Mr. Fox, David Harris
Mrs. Singer, David Harris
Mr. Murray, David Harris
Mrs. Noonan, David Harris.
David Harris appointed to the Capital Planning Committee with a term to expire in June
2025.

On a second roll call vote the Board voted as follows:
Mr. Fox, Bert Pechhold
Mrs. Singer, Bert Pechhold
Mr. Murray, Bert Pechhold
Mrs. Noonan, Bert Pechhold.



January 8, 2025                             2
Bert Pechhold appointed to the Capital Planning Committee with a term to expire in June
2025.

On a third roll call vote the Board voted as follows:
Mr. Fox, Mike Maniaci
Mrs. Singer, William Anderson
Mr. Murray, William Anderson
Mrs. Noonan, William Anderson.
William Anderson appointed to the Capital Planning Committee with a term to expire in
June 2025.

LICENSING. Eastern Yacht Club, Change of Officers/Directors. Jarod Chorney,
General Manger, appeared before the Board to present an application from the Eastern
Yacht Club to Change Officers and Directors. After review, motion made to approve the
application from Eastern Yacht Club, as presented, to Change Officers and Directors,
subject to receipt of the required forms, fees and approval from the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Commission. Moved by Mr. Fox, seconded by Mr. Murray. On a roll call vote
the Board voted as follows: Mr. Murray, in favor; Mr. Fox, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in
favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor.

ABBOT PUBLIC LIBRARY FOUNDATION. Private Fund account. Kim Grad,
Abbot Public Library Director, and Molly Bushman, Treasurer, appeared before the
Board on behalf of the Abbot Public Library Foundation. Motion made and seconded to
approve the request from Kimberly Grad, Abbot Public Library Director, to establish a
private account on behalf of the Abbot Public Library Foundation titled “OPK Mary
MacAllister Fund”. All in favor.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS, GENERAL Motion made and seconded to except the
following Consent Agenda Items except those put on hold:

MINUTES of November 13, 2024 / December 4, 2024.

SURPLUS EQUIPMENT -to declare the following items as surplus and no longer
needed for Municipal purpose so that they may be disposed of in accordance with the
Town’s policy on surplus equipment:
2 stuffed chairs / 2 bookcases

BELL RINGING. Washington’s Birthday - that the bells of Abbot Hall and all the
churches in Marblehead be rung on Washington’s Birthday, Saturday, February 22, 2025,
at the usual holiday hours from 7:30 a.m. to 8:00 a.m.; 12 noon to 12:30 p.m.; 6:00 p.m.
to 6:30 p.m. as has been the custom in the past.

MARBLEHEAD YOUTH BASEBALL. Opening Day Parade - request from
Kimberly Leventhal, Marblehead Youth Baseball, to hold their annual opening day
parade on Saturday, May 3, 2025, at 9:00 a.m. subject to approval from Police, Fire,
Schools, Recreation and Park, police details and receipt of the required Certificate of



January 8, 2025                              3
Insurance. No permanent markings are allowed on the streets, and all temporary
markings shall be removed at the conclusion of the event. The event will start behind
Veterans Middle School and end at Gatchell’s Park.

All in favor.

SEMI ANNUAL GOLF OUTING. Tedesco Country Club. Motion made and
seconded to accept letters of interest, from non-profit organization, to use the Tedesco
Country Club on October 27, 2025, for the semi-annual Marblehead Outing. Letters of
interest should be submitted by Friday, February 7, 2025, to the Select Board, 188
Washington Street, or by email to wileyk@marblehead.org. All in favor.

SHANTY. Fort Beach Way. Transfer. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Mark Lausier to transfer the use of Shanty No. 1, Fred Lausier, to Mark
Lausier subject to the receipt of the required documents, current Commercial Lobster,
confirmation that applicant has at least 100 traps and all fees to the Town paid. All in
favor.

LICENSING. 1 Day Liquor License(s). Marblehead Little Theatre. Motion to
approve the request from Marblehead Little Theatre for two (2) one-day liquor license for
February 14, 2025, and February 15, 2025, 6:00 – 10:00 p.m. at 12 School Street subject
to the following conditions:
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50).
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
    • Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.
    • Alcohol will be purchased from Kappy’s Distributors
Moved by Mr. Murray, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a roll call vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Murray, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Fox, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in
favor.

HOUSING PRODUCTION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION COMMITTEE.
Appointment. Motion made and seconded to appoint Nisha Austin to the Housing
Production Plan Implementation Committee, At Large Member. All in favor.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS. None.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:15 p.m. All in favor.


                                      Kyle A. Wiley
                                      Administrative Aide




January 8, 2025                              4
List of documents used: application for overhanging sign 231 Washington St; Resumes:
David Harris, Mike Maniaci, Bert Pechhold, William Anderson / EYC Change of Officer
and Directors application / Abbot Public Library Foundation, private fund account
request / draft minutes Nov. 13th and Dec. 4th / Youth Baseball parade request / Tedesco
semiannual golf outing announcement / request for Shanty transfer, Lausier / MLT (2) 1
day liquor licenses.




January 8, 2025                            5
