                                   SELECT BOARD

                                       MINUTES

                                       July 9, 2025

Board met in HYBRID session at 7:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street, Select
Board Meeting Room

The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                    Dan Fox, Chair
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                    James R. Zisson

                       Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of July 9, 2025, to order.

PUBLIC COMMENT. The following residents addressed the Board:
Joseph Whipple thanked the Board for their continued efforts to help the town stay in
compliance with 3A and now, after the results of the Special Election, we are in a
situation where we have to throw ourselves at the mercy of the Attorney General and the
courts. He is confident the Board will continue to exercise their best judgement in what
is best for the Town.

Albert Jordan addressed the board regarding 3A, trash pickup, Board of Health new hire,
Highway Department needs more staff.

Yael Magen (remote) spoke regarding the decision of the Special Election and suggested
the Select Board ask for an exemption from the State.

Albert Jordan addressed the Board again stating he did not want anymore roundabouts in
town as they are hard to plow and maintain.

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR UPDATE. The Town Administrator noted he has spoken
with the Public Health Director, who oversees the transfer station, and contrary to what
social media is reporting the town is not taking trash from outside of Marblehead. They
continue to do the best they can with all hands-on deck.

Update:
2025 Independence Day Fireworks Event Recap
This year’s Independence Day fireworks and harbor illumination were successfully
carried out as planned, marking a strong return for Marblehead’s cherished Fourth of July
traditions.

Joint Ambulance Services Agreement with Town of Swampscott and Beauport
Ambulance
The Towns of Marblehead and Swampscott have jointly selected Beauport Ambulance
Service, Inc. as the new provider of emergency ambulance services under a three-year
agreement currently being finalized. The contract with Beauport Ambulance is structured
as a zero-bid contract, meaning there is no direct cost to the Town for the service.
Instead, proposals were evaluated on the basis of service delivery, response standards,
integration with public safety dispatch, and patient care capabilities. The agreement
includes 24/7 ALS and BLS coverage, locally stationed ambulances in each town, and
mutual aid support when needed. This contract will come before the Board for a vote at
their next meeting.

Impacts of Referendum Repealing 3A Zoning Compliance
On June 18, 2025, Marblehead voters approved a referendum repealing the Town’s prior
Town Meeting vote to comply with the MBTA Communities Act (Section 3A of M.G.L.
Chapter 40A). As a result, the Town will be officially out of compliance as of July 14,
2025. This change has significant implications for the Town’s eligibility for numerous
state and federal grant programs, putting at risk $354,792 in currently contracted grants
and over 3 million in pending applications. Brendan Callahan, Director, Community
Development and Planning, addressed the Board and explained that while they have
received awards for various projects including shipyard resilience, MBTA safety, and
community bike rack installation, they have not yet received the funds, and the state may
reconsider these grants due to non-compliance. The town is also at risk of losing a
potential 11.6-million-dollar federal grant for port infrastructure development, as well as
a 2.98-million-dollar transportation improvement project, though the latter was not
awarded this year as expected.

FORT SEWALL. PERMISSION TO USE. Police Cultural Foundation. Mark Szpak,
President, Polish Cultural Foundation of Boston, and Edward Krolikowski (remote),
Chair Revolutionary Way 250 Committee, appeared before the Board seeking approval
for a commemorative celebration at Fort Sewall during the summer of 2027. After
discussion and questions from the Board a motion was made and seconded to approve the
request from Mark Szpak, President, Polish Cultural Foundation of Boston, to use Fort
Sewall in July 2027 (date to be determined) for a commemorative celebration in honor of
the 250th anniversary of the arrival in America of General Casimir Pulaski, subject to the
usual rules, regulations, fees, approval from Police, Fire and Recreation and Parks, police
details and docents as required and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance
naming the Town as additionally insured. All in favor.

MECHANICAL ROOFTOP REPLACEMENT. Marblehead Public Schools. Mike
Pfiffering, Assistant Superintendent of Finance & Operations, and Jen Schaeffner, School
Committee Member, appeared before the Board seeking amendments to the contracts for
the Marblehead High School Roof Project. David Saindon, Project Executive, Leena
Long, LeftField, Gene Raymond and Molly Paris, Raymond Design, joined the meeting
remotely. Mike Pifferling presented the contract amendments for the Marble High

School roof project. The amendments cover the remaining phases of the project,
including design completion, pre-bidding, contractor hiring, and project oversight. The
board was informed that the School Committee has already approved the amendments
and is considering two options: a recover membrane or a liquid membrane. The board
was asked to approve the contract amendments, which would allow the project to move
forward with both options being evaluated. After discussion the following motions were
made:

Motion made and seconded to approve Amendment #1, Mechanical Rooftop
Replacement between the Town and LeftField, for Project Management Services, by
increasing the contract amount by three hundred sixty-nine thousand nine hundred thirty-
seven dollars ($369,937.00) and amend the contract completion date to December 31,
2026, and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

Motion made and seconded to approve Amendment #1, Mechanical Rooftop
Replacement between the Town and Raymond Design Associates, Inc., for Designer
Services, by increasing the contract amount by seven hundred fifty-two thousand two
hundred dollars ($752,200) and amend the contract completion date to December 31,
2026, and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

MEMORUNDUM OF UNDERSTANDING. International Association of
Firefighters, AFL-CIO, CLE, Local No. 2043. Motion made and seconded to approve
the Memorandum of Understanding between the Town and the International Association
of Firefighters, AFL-CIO, CLE, Local No. 2043, as prepared by Town Counsel. All in
favor.

2025 REAPPOINTMENTS. Motion made and seconded to accept the following
appointments in accordance with the Town Bylaws:

CONSTABLES
   • for the Purpose of Serving Civil Process
Douglas Perry, expires June 2026

ANIMAL INSPECTOR, Temporary
John R. Plourde, expires June 2026
All in favor.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of June 11, 2025. All in
favor.

ROTARY CLUB OF MARBLEHEAD. Motion made and seconded to approve the
request from Nancy Archer Gwin, Rotary Club of Marblehead, to hold the annual Rotary
5K on Sunday, November 2, 2025, at 11:00 a.m. subject to approval from Police and
Fire, police details and required Certificate of Liability. No permanent markings are
allowed on the streets, and any temporary markings must be removed at the conclusion of
the event. All in favor.

LICENSING. 1 Day Liquor License(s). Annunciation House Complex. Motion to
approve the following application for seven (7) One Day Liquor License(s) from the
Annunciation House Complex, Emmaus House, 22 Endicott Street and Egypt House, 12
Conant Road) as follows:
       July 30, 2025         12:00 noon to 12:00 midnight
       August 6, 2025        12:00 noon to 12:00 midnight
       August 15, 2025       12:00 noon to 12:00 midnight
       September 8, 2025 12:00 noon to 12:00 midnight
       November 1, 2025      12:00 noon to 12:00 midnight
       December 6, 2025      12:00 noon to 12:00 midnight
       December 25, 2025 12:00 noon to 12:00 midnight

subject to the following conditions:
   • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50 each).
   • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
       be purchased from an authorized source.
   • Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
       disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
       requirements of G. L. c. 138.
   • Authorized distributor to be determined before license is released
Alcohol will be purchased from Marblehead Brewing Company, United Liquors,
Martignetti’s and Seaboard.

Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mrs. Noonan. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Zisson, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Fox, in
favor.

LICENSING. 1 Day Liquor License(s). Marblehead Little Theatre. Motion to
approve the following application for a One Day Liquor License from the Marblehead
Little Theatre as follows:
        Saturday, August 2, 2025, 7:00 p.m. – 10:00 p.m.
 subject to the following conditions:
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50 each).
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
    • Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.
    • Authorized distributor to be determined before license is released.
Alcohol will be purchased from Bent Water Brewery.

Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mrs. Noonan. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Zisson, in favor; Mr. Fox, in
favor.

LIQUOR LICENSE. The Select Board received an application for a Wine / Malt
Beverage Package Store License from Flores Mantilla, 164 Washington Street. Motion
made and seconded, in accordance with the Town of Marblehead’s Alcohol Beverage
License Policies, that the Select Board, through public notice, will seek applicants for an
available Wine and Malt Beverage Package Store License, and hold a public hearing on
all completed applications received. All in favor.

CONTRACTS. Motion made and seconded to approve the following contracts with the
Town, and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board:

Amendment No. (2) for contract #2024-014-2, Swampscott Rail Trail Engineering
Design Phase 2, between the Town and Toole Design Group, LLC., as presented and the scope
of work to include Task 8, with no cost change. All in favor.

CONSERVATION COMMISSION. Letter of Interest. The Board received a letter of interest
from Alison Frey to serve on the Conservation Commission. The Board will receive letters of interest
to serve on the Conservation Commission with a deadline of August 8, 2025. The Board will
interview applicants at a future Select Board meeting.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS.
The Chair thanked Andrew Petty, Public Health Director, and his staff, for the hard work
during the trash strike and advised residents to email the Board of Health Department if
they have not received a pickup. They are working on a strategy to pick up on a regular
schedule. The Council on Aging has provided staff support to answer the phones as well
as other departments supporting the effort.

The Chair commended the Clerk’s office for a job well done on the special election.

APPRECIATION. Festival of Arts. Motion made and seconded to send a letter to the
Festival of Arts congratulating them on a fabulous festival this year. All in favor.

Motion to adjourn at 8:05 p.m.

                                          Kyle A. Wiley
                                          Administrative Aide

List of documents used: Polish Cultural Foundation request / Amendments to School
Contracts w. LeftField and Raymond Design/draft MOU, Firefighters / draft minutes
June 11, 2025 / Rotary Club 5 K request / Annunciation House 1 day liquor requests/
MLT 1 day liquor requests / Flores Mantilla request for Wine/Malt Package Store
License / contract amendment Toole Design.

