                                   SELECT BOARD

                                       MINUTES

                                      July 15, 2025

Board met in HYBRID session at 12:00 noon. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street,
Select Board Meeting Room.

The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                    Dan Fox, Chair
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                     Alexa J. Singer
                                    James R. Zisson

                       Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of July 15, 2025, to order.

EXECUTIVE SESSION. Motion made to adjourn to Executive Session under M.G.L.
c. 30A, Sec. 21 for the purpose of discussing litigation where the public discussion on the
same may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body, votes
may be taken, and if taken, votes will be released at a time deemed appropriate by
counsel. The board will reconvene in open session. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by
Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Zisson, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr. Fox, in favor.

The Board resumed open session at 1:15 p.m.
MBTA 3A Communities Act. The Chair stated that as of today, July 15, 2025,
Marblehead is one of 14 communities, out of 177, that are in noncompliance with the
MBTA 3A Zoning Bylaw and read from an advisory statement, released by the Attorney
General, concerning enforcement (see attached). The Select Board has written a letter
appealing to both Governor Healey and Edward Augustus, Secretary of the Executive
Office of Housing and Livable Communities, outlining the key actions taken by the town
since 2023 and what the Board sees as the main objections and concerns of the
community and concludes with requesting assistance from the State by considering an
exemption or exemption to compliance. After comments from the Board, a motion was
made and seconded to approve sending a letter to Governor Healey and Edward Augustus
regarding the town’s status of non-compliance with the MBTA 3A Zoning Bylaw and
authorizing the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

Motion to adjourn at 1:20 p.m.

                                      Kyle A. Wiley, Administrative Aide
List of documents used: letter to Governor Healey/Edward Augustus.


July 15, 2025                               97
