                                    SELECT BOARD

                                        MINUTES

                                      October 9, 2025

Board met in HYBRID session at 11:00 a.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street,
Select Board Meeting Room

The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                     Dan Fox, Chair
                                    M. C. Moses Grader
                                     Erin M. Noonan
                                     James R. Zisson

                        Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of October 9, 2025, to order.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor. Marblehead Arts Association.
Motion to approve the request from Marblehead Arts Association for a One Day Liquor
License, on Thursday, October 9, 2025, at Marblehead Arts Association, Washington
Street, from 7:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m. subject to the following conditions:
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50).
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
         be purchased from an authorized source.
    • Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
         disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
         requirements of G. L. c. 138.
    • Alcohol will be purchased from Kappy’s Importing
Moved by Mr. Zisson, seconded by Mr. Gader. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Zisson, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor, Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Fox, in
favor.

MOTION to revise the previously approved date for the Veteran Town Hall to
November 10, 2025, subject to the usual rules, regulations and fees. All in favor.

MINUTES. Motion made and seconded to approve the minutes of September 24, 2025.
All in favor.

CONTRACT. 2025-018 Transfer Station Redesign Construction Project. Andrew
Petty, Public Health Director, appeared before the Board to review the contract for the
transfer station redesign which includes the scale moving to a permanent location in the
scale pit, right in front of the compactor, a new concrete pad for the trash trailer and two
wing walls below where the trash trailer sits, as well as associated site work. This will

give residents direct access out of the facility with their own lane separate from the
commercial crossing. Signage and traffic control lights will be added as well. Andrew
spoke about future work that will include a new swap shed and work associated with the
compactor building. Motion made and seconded to award contract 2025-018, Transfer
Station Redesign Construction Project between the Town and DeIulis Brothers
Construction Co., Inc. in the amount of One Million Five Hundred and Ninety thousand
dollars and 00/100 ($1,590,000) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the
Board. All in favor.

Andrew and the Board had a brief discussion on the current trash contract set to expire in
July of 2026.

CONTRACT. Road Salt. Motion made and seconded to award VEH119, for Road
Salt between the Town and Eastern Salt Company. in the amount of seventy-three dollars
and 08/100 ($73.08) per ton and authorize the Chair to sign the MOU on behalf of the
Board. All in favor.

RESERVE FUND TRANSFER. Building Department. Hobbs House Windows.
Aleesha Benjamin, CFO, and Steve Cummings, Building Commissioner, appeared before
the Board seeking a Reserve Fund Transfer. The original capital request was to repair
the porch and install windows but there is not enough capital funds for this project. The
Building Department budget can fund the repair of the porch, and a reserve fund transfer
would cover the 72 windows needed to be installed before winter. After a brief
discussion a motion was made and seconded to authorize Stephen Cummings, Building
Commissioner, to appear before the Finance Committee to request the transfer of the sum
of thirty-six thousand dollars ($36,000) from the Reserve Fund in accordance with
Chapter 40, section 6 of the Massachusetts General Laws for Hobbs House windows and
building repairs. All in favor

INSPECTOR OF ANIMALS. Appointment. Chief Dennis King and Emily DeGrande
appeared before the Board. Ms. DeGrande addressed the Board and her reasons for
seeking this appointment. The Chief gave a brief background on the Inspector of
Animals position and believes that Emily DeGrande has the skills and ability and is
qualified to do the specific parts of this job that are important; paperwork and
quarantines, as well as the desire and willingness to put herself in some risky situations.
Motion made and seconded to appoint Emily Degrande as Animal Inspector with a term
to expire April 30, 2026. All in favor.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS. None.

EXECUTIVE SESSION. Motion to adjourn to Executive Session under M.G.L. c. 30A,
Sec. 21 for the purpose of discussing pending litigation, Adams v. Marblehead GL
M24GL000655 where the public discussion on the same may have a detrimental effect on
the negotiating position of the public body, votes may be taken and if votes are taken they
will be released at a time deemed appropriate by counsel. The Board will not reconvene
in open session. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Zisson. On a polled vote the

Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Zisson, in
favor; Mr. Fox, in favor.

The Board adjourned to Executive Session at 11:22 a.m.

                                           Kyle A. Wiley
                                           Administrative Aide
List of documents used: Marblehead Arts 1 day liquor / Veterans Town Hall request / Contract request,
Transfer Station Redesign and Road Salt/ Reserve Fund request, Building Commissioner / Inspector of
Animals application / motion for Executive Session

