                                   SELECT BOARD

                                       MINUTES

                                    August 28, 2025

Board met in HYBRID session at 10:15 a.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street,
Select Board Meeting Room

The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                    Dan Fox, Chair
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                    Erin M. Noonan
                                    James R. Zisson

                       Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of August 28, 2025, to order.

PUBLIC COMMENT. Albert Jordon addressed the Board on the following:
cost of the new hybrid trucks purchased and their usage, noting they do not have town
seal on them / 2-3 old vehicles not in use parked with plates still on them / concerned
with the vacant school building and kids breaking into it / what is town doing with this
property / regarding the tragic accident on Atlantic Avenue he would like to see existing
resources utilized more, increased community engagement and proactive policing.

CONTRACT. Procurement and Contract Management. Motion made and seconded
to approve Contract 26-03, for Procurement and Contract Management Software between
the Town and Open Gov, in the amount of Forty-Seven Thousand dollars and 00/100
($47,000.00) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Underground Storage Tank Removal. Motion made and seconded to
approve a Change Order in the amount of Ten Thousand Dollars and 00/100 ($10,000) to
Contract 2024-069 between the Town and Brighter Horizons Environmental Corporation
for the removal of an underground storage tank; and to extend the contract completion
date to September 30, 2025 and to authorize the Chair to sign the Change Order on behalf
of the Board. All in favor.

CONTRACT. Crack Sealing. Motion made and seconded to approve a change order of
2.9% to Contract 2024-028 ending June 30, 2026, for Crack sealing between the Town
and Indus Inc. in the amount of Seventy Five Thousand Three Hundred and Ten Dollars
and 45/100 ($75,310.45) and authorize the Chair to sign on behalf of the Board. All in
favor.




August 28, 2025                            112
REYNOLDS FIELD REFURBISHMENT PROJECT. Select Board Liaison. The
Chair announced that the Recreation and Parks Commission is seeking a Select Board
liaison for the Reynolds Field Refurbishment Project and asked who may be interested.
Motion made and seconded to appoint Jim Zisson Select Board Liaison to the Reynolds
Field Refurbishment Project Ad Hoc Committee. All in favor.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS.
        State Street Restrooms. The Board discussed the status of the restrooms at the
State Street landing. Some vandalism occurred that caused the restrooms to be shut down
for a couple of weeks. There are ongoing challenges to maintain the restrooms and the
Town Administrator noted that a meeting has been scheduled to discuss these challenges
and work to get the restrooms fixed up and reopened.

        MBTA 3A Zoning Bylaw. Dan, Erin and Thatcher attended a meeting of the
Marblehead Housing Authority to hear an update on the Broughton Road development
project. Secretary Augustus of the EOHLC was present as well and they took the
opportunity to ask him about a response to the Town’s letter for an exemption to the 3A
Zoning Bylaw. Secretary Augustus stated that there is no process by which to seek an
exemption for any MBTA community and that the State had no intention or plan to do so
in the future. The Town is awaiting a written response regarding which types of funding
will be affected, particularly for discretionary grants and the Green Communities Act,
while they continue to pursue clarification from various agencies about their eligibility
for grants. The Board expressed concerns about the state's offer to help comply, noting
that without a clear plan for relief or technical support, it would be difficult for the town
to achieve compliance through a new plan that could pass a referendum.


Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 10:45 a.m.



                                       Kyle A. Wiley
                                       Administrative Aide

List of documents used: Votes for Contracts




August 28, 2025                             113
