                                  SELECT BOARD
                                     MINUTES

                                   February 5, 2025

Board met in HYBRID session at 6:00 p.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street
The following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                   Erin M. Noonan
                                       Dan Fox
                                  M. C. Moses Grader
                                    Bret T. Murray
                                    Alexa J. Singer

                      Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of February 5, 2025, to order. This meeting is being
recorded.

PROCLAMATION. Donate Life Day. Motion to approve the request from Gary
Swain to proclaim Friday, February 7, 2025, Donate Life Day in Marblehead, to raise
awareness about organ donations and funding sources. All in favor.

FY2026 STATE OF THE TOWN. The Chair stated that Thatcher Kezer, Town
Administrator, along with Aleesha Benjamin, Chief Financial Officer, will present the
2026 State of the Town and after the presentation there will be time for a question-and-
answer period from residents in the room and online. The Town Administrator continued
with the presentation, reviewing the preparation currently underway for developing the
Fiscal Year 26 Budget, the organization of the town, its core municipal services and
resource management. The town's financial situation was discussed as well as what the
main cost drivers are, the need to reduce reliance on free cash, the increasing health
insurance rate, and the strain on staff time due to new information systems. The Town
will continue to take proactive steps to ensure future fiscal stability. The Board made
comments and asked questions and then moved into the Q&A session with residents in
attendance and line.

Public comments and questions that were addressed by the Board included: Contract
Negotiations, health insurance, general override, warrant articles for senior tax relief,
registration of Airbnbs, school roof repairs, borrowing process for debt exclusions,
posting of warrant, condition of utility poles, and school properties. Terri Tauro,
President, Marblehead Municipal Employee Union, presented the Board an informal
petition signed by municipal departments and employees requesting the Select Board
make union negotiations and municipal employees a priority. The Chair thanked
everyone for coming out to the meeting and being invested in the town and stated that the
Board is always happy to answer questions and have discussions with residents and to
reach out to them via their emails through the Town’s website.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:25 p.m. All in favor.

                                           Kyle A. Wiley,
                                           Administrative Aide

List of documents used: Proclamation request, Donate Life Day; FY2026 State of the Town presentation

