                                       SELECT BOARD

                                            MINUTES

                                        January 26, 2026

Board met in VITUAL session at 2:00 p.m. via Zoom Conferencing.

On a roll call vote the following Board members were present constituting a quorum:
                                      Dan Fox, Chair
                                     Erin M. Noonan
                                      Alexa J. Singer
                                     James R. Zisson

                          Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Monday, January 2026, to order. This meeting is being
recorded. The Board has called an Emergency Meeting to declare a Snow Emergency in
the Town.

Amy McHugh, Public Works Director, reviewed with the Board the process for calling a
Snow Emergency. The Town has run out of space to remove snow. The Town, in
conjunction with the Conservation Commission, who are also required to sign off on the
emergency declaration, will notify the State in accordance the Emergency Snow Removal
Policy, of the Town’s actions.

Snow will be placed by dump trucks into the harbor at the State Street Landing and
Riverhead Beach. The snow is not highly treated yet, so it is best to do this soon. The
Town will focus on areas around the schools and business districts as well as around
intersections and homes that have had major snow build up from plowing during the
storm. Private contractors are not allowed to dump snow in the Harbor.
After review and discussion by the Board motion made that the Select Board declare a
state of emergency in the Town of Marblehead from Monday, January 26, 2026 through
Friday, January 30, 2026 at 7:00 A.M. due to significant snow accumulation which
resulted from the snow storm of January 25-26, 2026 and that said snow poses an
immediate threat to the health or safety of persons or property in the Town of
Marblehead. Moved by Mr. Zisson, seconded by Mrs. Noonan. On a roll call vote the
Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Zisson, in
favor; Mr. Fox, in favor.

Motion made to adjourn at 2:20 p.m. Moved by Mr. Zisson, seconded by Mrs. Noonan.
On a roll call vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Zisson, in
favor; Mrs Singer, in favor; Mr. Fox, in favor.

                                          Kyle A. Wiley, Administrative Aide

List of documents used: Vote for declaring emergency


January 26, 2026                                  9
