                                   SELECT BOARD

                                       MINUTES

                                    January 28, 2026

Board met in HYBRID session at 8:07 p.m. at Abbot Hall, 188 Washington Street, Select
Board Meeting Room

By a roll call vote the following Board members were present constituting a quorum:

                                     Dan Fox, Chair
                                   M. C. Moses Grader
                                 Erin M. Noonan, remote
                                      Alexa J. Singer
                                     James R. Zisson

                       Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

The Chair called the meeting of Wednesday, January 28, 2026, to order. This meeting is
being recorded.

PUBLIC COMMENT. The following public comment was taken:
  o Sarah Fox - posting Select Board meeting documents online / increasing Capital
     budget / concerns with the Essex North Shore Agricultural & Technical School
     Assessment
  o Pat Adams - thanked town employees for snow removal and asked what the plans
     are for removing more snow.

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR UPDATE.
Amy McHugh, Director of Public Works, updated the Board on snow removal. Pleasant
Street, Atlantic Avenue and Washington Street business areas and bus stops and crossing
stations are first priority as well as working hand in hand with the schools to clear their
properties.

INTERNATIONAL HOLOCAUST REMEMBRANCE DAY. The Chair read aloud
the Holocaust Remembrance Day Proclamation and announced that the Holocaust
Remembrance Day ceremony will be held at Abbot Hall on Friday, January 30, 2026, at
11:30 a.m. This event is open to the public.

RECOGNITION. Nikolay Kuzmina. Motion to prepare a document in Recognition of
Nikolay Kuzmina and his lifelong commitment to the Town of Marblehead. Moved by
Mr. Zisson, seconded by Mr. Grader. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs.
Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Zisson, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Fox, in favor.

RESIDENT SURVEY. Erin Noonan presented information to the Board she has
gathered regarding conducting a resident survey using a community engagement platform
that conducts scientific resident surveys to help municipalities understand public opinion
and inform strategic planning. She shared that Dedham recently used Polco's services and
found the data helpful for budget planning and identifying gaps between resident
priorities and service delivery. Mrs. Noonan will continue to research further into the
cost, timeline, and value of conducting a scientifically valid resident survey (e.g., via
Polco or Flash Vote), including the possibility of customizing questions, and report back
to the Board.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS, GENERAL Motion made to accept the following
Consent Agenda Items except those put on hold:

Abbot Hall, Marblehead Festival of Arts, Friday, March 6, 2026, subject to the usual
rules, regulations, fees and receipt of the required Certificate of Insurance.

Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a roll call vote the Board voted as
follows: Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Zisson, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs. Noonan,
in favor; Mr. Fox, in favor.

CONTRACTS. The Board reviewed contracts and took the following votes:

Contract # 26-47, Lease of Hobbs House
Motion to extend the lease term for an additional 5 years, from February 15, 2026,
through February 14, 2031, for the lease of 66 Clifton Avenue between the Town and
Marblehead Counseling Center for annual rent in the amount of seven thousand four
hundred and eighty eight dollars and 00/100 ($7,488) and authorize the Chair to sign the
lease on behalf of the Board. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mr. Zisson. On a
polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mr. Zisson, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mrs.
Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Fox, in favor.

Contract # 26-48, Fireworks Display
Motion to award contract 26-48 for the July 4th fireworks display between the Town and
Pyrotecnico Fireworks, Inc. in the amount of fifty-five thousand dollars and 00/100
($55,000) and authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Board. Moved by
Mr. Zisson, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs.
Singer, in favor; Mr. Zisson, in favor; Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr.
Fox, in Grader.

LICENSING. One Day Liquor License(s). Marblehead Festival of Arts, March 6,
2026, and Marblehead Museum, March 13, 2026.
Motion to approve the requests for the following One Day Liquor License(s) from:

    •   Marblehead Festival of Arts, Abbot Hall, March 6, 2026, 5:00 p.m. – 7:00
        p.m., beer and wine only

    •   Marblehead Museum, March 13, 2026, Jeremiah Lee Brick Kitchen, 157
        Washington St, from 6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. on the following dates

subject to the following conditions:
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of the required fee ($50 each).
    • Delivery of and receipt by the Licensing Authority of Proof that the alcohol will
        be purchased from an authorized source.
    • Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery; provide proper storage and
        disposal of all alcoholic beverages purchased all in accordance with the
        requirements of G. L. c. 138.
    • Liquor Liability Insurance.
    • No alcohol is allowed to be stored on premises overnight.
    • Alcohol will be purchased from Kappys Importing, Martignetti’s and Seaboard
        Beer
Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the Board voted as
follows: Mrs. Noonan, in favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Zisson, in favor; Mrs. Singer,
in favor; Mr. Fox, in favor.

RETIREMENTS. Mr. Grader noted the recent retirement of Robert Titus, Assistant
Director, Department of Public Works, Peter James, Superintendent Recreation & Parks
Department and Dana Lemieux, Lead- Heavy Equipment Operator, Department of
Public Works, thanking them for their decades of outstanding service to the Town.
Motion made and seconded to send a letter of congratulation and appreciation to Robert,
Peter and Dana. Moved by Mr. Grader, seconded by Mrs. Singer. On a polled vote the
Board voted as follows: Mr. Zisson, in favor; Mrs. Singer, in favor, Mrs. Noonan, in
favor; Mr. Grader, in favor; Mr. Fox, in favor.

SELECT BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS. The Board thanked all town departments
and employees for the continued snow removal efforts in town, noting that the last storm
was the 8th largest snowfall on record.

Motion made and seconded to adjourn at 8:55 p.m. Moved by Mrs. Singer, seconded by
Mr. Zisson. On a polled vote the Board voted as follows: Mrs. Singer, in favor; Mr.
Grader, in favor; Mrs. Noonna, in favor; Mr. Zisson, in favor; Mr. Fox, in favor.

                                           Kyle A. Wiley
Administrative Aide

List of documents used: Holocaust Proclamation / Kuzmina recognition / FoArts Abbot Hall request /
Contract info, Hobbs House and Fireworks / 1 Day Liquor Licenses, MFoArts, Marblehead Museum /

