                                  Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                               Thursday, October 4, 2018
                                                Marblehead High School

Members Present:                           Meredith Tedford, Jennifer Schaeffner
                                           Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor

Also:                                      Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                           Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                           Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations
                                           Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance

Members Absent:                            David Harris

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm.

     B. Commendations

     C. Public Comment

     D. Student Representative
        Dan Howells, Student Rep, Sophomore and Class President
        • Freshman class officer elections were held and the results will be available tomorrow
        • Peer Mediation Team spoke to all the grades
        • The Class of 2021 are having a restaurant fundraiser on October 23rd
        • The Sustainability Fair will be held October 6th
        • PSAT for Sophmores and Juniors will be held October 13th
        • MHS Drama Club performance of The Mariner’s Revenge on October 10th
        • Open House for 8th graders on October 25th
        • Annual bus evacuation drill that was recently done took 22 minutes
        • Freshman Day of Service Project October 24th

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
    1. Asbestos Abatement Contract Award approval
       Mr. Lord noted that the low bidder for the asbestos abatement contract at the Veterans Middle School was Encore
       Contracting from Lawrence. We received six bids
       with Encore’s bid of $13,750 as the lowest. His recommendation is to award the contract to Encore.

        Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the Asbestos Abatement Contract. The motion was seconded by Ms. Gold
        and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 4-0, in favor.

     2. Gerry Closing costs
        Superintendent Perry explained that these closing costs are not related to the issue from last year. This is a leak in
        one of the drums in boiler. Mr. Lord noted that the mud drum leak on the boiler was examined by our boiler
        maintenance contractor who stated that while he could replace the drum, the repair was risky.
        The boiler is over sixty years old with many issues making any repair at this point suspect. Mr. Lord worked with
        the Fire Chief, Building, Wire and Plumbing inspectors to come up with a list of tasks that would need to be
        accomplished to shut down the building for the winter with no heat. The cost of the shutdown comes to
        approximately $12,740. Mr. Lord recommended that we proceed with this work as soon as possible and noted that a
        budget source is needed to fund these items.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                                 10/4/18

    3. BCG Building committee and SC joint meeting minutes 8/23/18; 9/6/18
       Ms. Gold made motion to approve the BCG Building Committee and School Committee joint meeting minutes of
       8/23/18 and 9/6/18. The motion was seconded by Ms. Schaeffner and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 4-0, in
       favor.

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        1. Organizational Chart
           Superintendent Perry made note that this organizational chart is presented to the Committee each year.

       2. Distance Learning Days
          Superintendent Perry explained that they have researched and spoken to other districts who have taken
          advantage of these Distance Learning Days which was instituted due to the frequency of snow days in recent
          years. DESE stated that they would leave it up to School Committees and their Districts on whether or not to
          institute these plans. She noted that the power point presented this evening is the first step in our process to pilot the
          distance learning days for the 2018-2019 school year. This power point is for informational purposes only as we are
          currently working with the unions to insure compliance within the contract.

           Mr. Fox, Principal at the Veterans School, thanked the committee which was comprised of a teacher or
           administrator from each of our schools. Distance Learning Days are when students take part in academic
           assignments at home. Those assignments allow the district to “count” the cancelled day as a day of school. Our
           goals are to provide students with a grade appropriate, active learning experience and/or additional practice for
           material already taught. If fully implemented for every cancelled day, it would allow the school year to begin,
           knowing what the last day of school will be. Mr. Fox noted that this involves all staff because it is a work day.
           Superintendent Dr. Perry noted that she is working with Assistant Superintendent Dr. Smith at professional
           development for Paras and Tutors. Ms. Taylor and Ms. Schaeffner asked about how the DLD will be dealt with
           on IEPs for students with special needs. Mr. Fox responded that there was no need to add anything to IEPs. Ms.
           Schaeffner replied that it could belong as an item on a student's IEP and should be reviewed by Mr. Bellucci as
           to how to implement this with the SPED Coordinators.

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills
        #17061 $ 5,891.19
        #17062 $      540.00
        #17096 $416,261.52
        #17097 $ 39,779.42
        #17102 $ 24,387.62
                $486,859.75

       Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the schedule of bills for October 4, 2018 totaling $486,859.75. The motion
       was seconded by Ms. Gold and the Committee VOTED unanimously in favor, 4-0.

    2. YTD Budget Executive Summary
       Ms. Maniaci presented the YTD Budget Executive Summary.

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. BCG Building Update
      Mr. Lord noted that the district attended the MSBA’s Facilities Assessment Sub Committee meeting on the 26th
      where we presented our PSR report. Mr. Lord noted it was well received. This will then get forwarded to the full
      MSBA board for a vote on October 31st which will allow us to begin schematic design. Dr. Perry noted that they
      received feedback from the board this week which was very positive. Mr. Lord noted it scored our facilities,
      maintenance and operations section with a score of 1.61 which is higher than expected.

       Ms. Tedford noted that on Wednesday, October 9th Superintendent Perry and Mr. Lord will be presenting an update
       to the Selectmen.



                                                                 2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                         10/4/18

         Ms. Tedford noted that the Superintendent has been attending PTO meetings and has answered questions on our
         buildings but there will be more formal presentations once forums are scheduled.

     2. Facilities Committee Update
        Ms. Tedford explained that this committee has existed in different forms over the years. This committee will look
        in more detail what the next 20 years might look like in relation to our buildings such as annual maintenance which
        is within our operating budget; capital funding that requires outside funding from our budget (large scale repairs);
        and to analyze potential repairs that would need to go to Town Meeting. The committee met for the first time and
        are reviewing each building in detail and a report will be provided to the School Committee. Tuesday, October 9th at
        7pm is the next facilities meeting.

     3. Policy Manual Completion Update
        Ms. Tedford made note that Ms. Taylor will be replacing her as SC Policy Sub Committee rep once the policy
        manual project is finished.

         Ms. Tedford noted that the entire policy manual will be voted in its entirety at the next meeting. Once done, the
         Policy Sub Committee will review the few policies that will require further discussion. As in the past, MASC sends
         us updates on any changes in policy or laws and then the Policy Sub-Committee will discuss with administration
         and bring the changes to the full Committee for a vote.

         Ms. Schaeffner noted that some of the policies in the updated manual have changed, some have remained the same
         and others were removed. Also removed were exhibits or procedures as these are not policy and should be
         contained in the handbooks.

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
        Ms. Tedford stated that at the last meeting the Committee discussed School Committee goals. Ms. Tedford noted
        that she spoke to our MASC representative, Mike Gilbert, who said that they do not have a model district that does
        a robust goal setting process because the MASC recommendation is to use the operating protocols. Mr. Gilbert
        suggested using the operating protocols to do check-in in December and at that time, if the Committee feels there
        should be an addition they can modify the protocols to include it.

          Ms. Taylor stated that she feels it is important for the Committee to have 4 to 5 goals above the operating
          protocols and suggested that maybe one of the goals could be meeting the operating protocols. Ms. Tedford made
          note that since this committee is an elected committee, they are self-monitoring. Ms. Tedford recommended that
          Ms. Taylor call Mr. Gilbert to discuss the issue of Goals for the School Committee and report back to the
          Committee at a subsequent meeting.

          Ms. Tedford asked what day and time would be best to schedule an executive session and said she will email the
          decided date and time to each of them.

     B. Correspondence
        C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn was made and seconded and the Committee VOTED to adjourn at 8:25pm.
                                                                     Respectfully submitted,
                                                                     Sarah Gold
                                                                     Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
Asbestos Abatement Contract
Gerry Closing costs documents
BCG Building Committee and SC joint meeting minutes
Organizational Chart
Distance Learning Days power point
Schedule of Bills
YTD Budget Executive Summary



Approved 10 18 2018

                                                             3
