                                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                             Thursday, January 10, 2019
                                               Marblehead High School

Members Present:                           Meredith Tedford, Jennifer Schaeffner, David Harris
                                           Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor

Also:                                      Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                           Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                           Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations
                                           Robert Bellucci, Dir. Of Student Services & Program Acct.
                                           Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                           Rachel Bowen, Director of Human Resources

Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 7:10 pm.

     B. Commendations
        Ms. Tedford thanked Jon Caswell and Pam Evans of MHTV and the students helping out MHTV for taping the
        meeting this evening.

     C. Public Comment
        Sarah Fox, 46 Beach Street. Noted that she sat through the 6:00pm meeting where the school budget deficit was
        explained and suggested cuts of $200,000.00 were presented. She wished the meeting had been televised.
        She noted that cutting anti-bullying prevention material, text books, curriculum, etc. in a town where the median
        house cost is $675,000 is sad and she is concerned that these cuts will adversely impact the children.

     D. Student Representative
        Dan Howells, Student Rep, Sophomore and Class President
        Today all students participated in another ALICE training. This is second time practicing this training
        Eleven students are participating in the District Chorus Festival on Saturday
        Lunch and Learn Program going well
        Informational meeting for Senior Projects has begun
        Senior Show auditions were held this week
        Spring Performance of “Chicago” try outs are next Monday
        Mid-terms start on Monday January 22nd through the 25th

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
    1. SC Minutes: 11/15/18; 12/5/18
       Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the School Committee meeting minutes of 11/15/18 and 12/5/18. The
       motion was seconded by Ms. Taylor and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

        Mr. Harris asked for the joint meeting minutes to be voted on and Ms. Tedford noted that will do so at the next
        meeting or workshop.

     2. Fitness Center floor
        Ms. Schaeffner made motion to award the fitness center flooring contract to Pavilion Flooring in the amount of
        $23,963.00. The motion was seconded by Mr. Harris and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.
        Boosters donated this amount additional.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                    01/10/2019

    3. Approval of contract addendum for the asbestos abatement
       Ms. Gold made motion to approve a contract amendment to Encore Contracting who performed asbestos abatement
       work at the Veterans School in the amount of $3400 that will be covered by the Capital Outlay account. The
       motion was seconded by Ms. Schaeffner and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

    4. Acceptance of Donations
        1. Anonymous private donations from multiple families toward Marblehead High School Math Department
           purchase of nine classroom interactive smart boards totaling $49,000 ($26,000; $13,000; $10,000).

        2. Marblehead High School Parent Council donation toward High School Math Department purchase of nine
           classroom interactive smart boards. ($10,000)

        3. National Grand Bank, from President James E. Nye, donation in the amount of $750 gifted to the Marblehead
           Public Schools Fine Arts Programming. (*annual contributor to this program)

        4. Marblehead Female Humane Society donation in the amount of $1,250 gifted to the Marblehead Public Schools
           METCO Program. (*annual contributor to this program)

       Ms. Gold made motion to accept these multiple donations. The motion was seconded by Ms. Schaeffner and the
       Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
       1. HS Math Department interactive technology initiative presentation
          Mr. Bauer and Mr. Giardi spoke to the new math project. They have revamped the RTI process and the MCAS
          performance has improved. Mr. Giardi noted that last spring twelve teachers discussed how they can maintain
          consistency in the Math department. They looked into Interactive Smart Boards and visited a school in RI that
          has been using these new boards. In order to fund this project the PCO and several families made donations. All
          twelve teachers will have these setups in their classrooms. We will partner with the Tech Department for teacher
          professional development.

      2. School Calendar 2019-2020 draft/discussion
         Superintendent Perry explained that in collaboration with the Marblehead Teachers Association, a school
         calendar for the 2019-2020 school year has been drafted and presented to the Committee for review this evening.
         As has been the case in the past several years, teachers will be returning to school on Monday, August 26th and
         students on Tuesday, August 27th. By contract, Friday, August 30th teachers and students will be off and will
         return the day after Labor Day, Tuesday, September 3rd. September 3rd will also be the first day for Kindergarten.
         As was done last year, kindergarten screening will take place that last week in August.

          Kindergarten Orientation will take place next Monday, January 14th at the lower Bell School at 7:00pm. Parents
          of incoming kindergarten students are welcomed to attend.

          We have instituted Distance Learning Days this year which means if we are successful, we could get out as soon
          as June 17th.

          Mr. Harris asked since Open Houses are on the calendar, why could we not include Commencement date. Dr.
          Perry noted that the commencement date could change as it is contingent on time, learning and/or days off and is
          not decided until after the start of the new school year.

          School Committee will be asked to vote this calendar at the January 24, 2019 SC meeting.

MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                        01/10/2019

        3. HS LED project update
           Mr. Lord explained that the NG and Standard Electric combined to help us do an LED upgrade project at the
           High School. They did the work over the winter break and replaced 88 lights in the gym and replaced them with
           LED lights that have an occupancy sensor; café replaced all fluorescent tubes with LED tubes and all the can
           lights with LED lights. The project is completed and is funding neutral for us. The NG and Standard Electric
           came to us with a proposal to fund this for four years at 0% interest and the electrical savings is more than the
           monthly payment to pay for this project. We will see savings immediately this year and once the project is paid
           off the savings will go much higher. Project was two-fold for us, not only a cost savings but it also replaced
           many broken and non-operating lights and bulbs in the cafeteria and gymnasium and it also got rid of the
           annoying humming/buzzing sound in the gym. We already received positive feedback.

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills
        #17364 $ 11,088.00
        #17387 $ 1,295.00
        #17419 $861,613.41
        #17420 $ 33,030.17
        #17430 $ 35,747.32
        #17446 $ 5,607.52
        Total $948,381.42

         Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the schedule of bills for January 10, 2019 totaling $948,381.42. The
         motion was seconded by Ms. Gold and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

         Ms. Maniaci made note that some of the transfers on this schedule are dependent on whether the vote for transfers
         goes through.

   2.    YTD Budget Executive Summary
         Superintendent Dr. Perry noted that this report shows transfers in the FY19 school year to cover a deficit of
         $731,411.00 due to out of district placements. She noted we had the same deficit last year. Our out of district
         placements have grown due to services that we cannot provide. Mr. Bellucci has over 20+ years in this district and
         he has developed many special education programs however there are some children in our district for whom we
         cannot provide adequate education and we started this year with a deficit. Last year we did without replacing a
         curriculum specialist at the Village School and also put off hiring a media specialist at the Village School. We
         also used savings realized from retirements and class size reductions. We previously had a deficit in salaries in
         2016 and took care of it internally. Now tuition-out has brought us to a $731,411 deficit. As of now, we have
         found $200,000 by cutting curriculum, technology, etc.

         Ms. Schaeffner noted that the district did appropriate for our out of district placements but these costs are variable
         and we are mandated to pay them.

         Mr. Bellucci said that one reimbursement that comes from the state is Circuit Breaker. If your costs are over 25%
         you can apply for extraordinary funds but they expect your town to budget for this. If you apply two or three years
         in a row, they will audit to see why the town isn’t budgeting enough funds to cover these expenses.

         Ms. Tedford noted that all School Committee members are representatives for students because they don’t vote or
         pay taxes and the look to the Committee to provide them with the education that their parents expect in
         Marblehead. Ms. Tedford said they are incredibly thankful to the private donations that have been received to help
         further the curriculum but we desperately need total funding that will affect all the students.

         Ms. Maniaci, School Business Manager, noted that the transfers are from the operating budget into the Special
         Education tuition-out line. Several administrators noted what will be affected: the Facilities Department; Central
         Admin Curriculum Development (proposed cuts mean no expansion of science kits, no replacement or
         refurbishment of kits, no expansion of socio-emotional and bullying prevention kits, no purchase of additional

MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                   01/10/2019

    curriculum to support student advisory at Village and Veterans School, no expansion of RTI or ELA or literature
    and non fiction books or Social Studies text books); Technology Department (computer maintenance, halting
    purchase of IPADS for 3rd grade MCAS online testing, halting purchase of software for Smartboards, halting
    repair of tech equipment); Athletic Department (halt purchase of uniforms and equipment); remaining cuts will be
    from HS instructional line, Middle School technology line, Village books and periodical lines; and Elementary
    books, periodical and replacement of instructional equipment line).

    $200,000.00 Transfers are as follows:
    1. $20,000 from facilities and custodian salary lines – freeze overtime. Rearranging how we can cover overtime.

    2. $60,000 cut in curriculum central line which stopped the purchase of FOSS science kits. Teachers are currently
    sharing the kits. Dr. Smith noted that it will impact curriculum expansion, will limit RTI, Math and Science
    Curriculum as well as affect social emotional kits for bullying prevention.

    3. $50,000 cut from computer maintenance equipment. Mr. Lord, Tech Director, stated that with the 3rd grade
    MCAS going to electronic format, we will need more computers but we will hold off on purchasing additional
    computers.

    4. $30,000 from the athletic and coach budget which will cut new uniform purchases and equipment.

    5. $10,000 cut to HS principal’s text books and instructional supplies. High School Principal Mr. Bauer noted
    they will hold off updating the social studies books.

    6. $10,000 from the middle school technology line. Veterans School Principal Mr. Fox stated that his school-wide
    walkie-talkie system is over 11 years old and not working properly but they will not update the system at this time.
    Also, they will not purchase Chrome books for 8th graders who will need to use them in the 9th grade.
    Additionally, some sections of MCAS require the use of a calculator. In the past we would provide calculators and
    some of these are no longer working but we will not be able to replace the calculators.

    7. $5,000 cut from the Village School books and periodicals line. Ms. Murphy explained that the major goal on
    their school improvement plan will be affected by this cut as there will be no access to added resources for
    teachers to reach students above or below the mark.

    8. $3,000 from the Bell School books and instructional equipment. Bell School Principal Ms. Zaeske stated that
    the majority of her budget is on supplies. They will not be buying non-fiction books. Coffin and Glover School
    Principals Mr. Satterfield and Mr. Ota also stated that this cut will prohibit getting new science books, science kits
    and will slow down library purchases.

    9. $3,000 from Glover School books and periodicals

    10. $3,000 from Glover Replacement of Equipment (instructional)

    11. $2,000 from Coffin School Books and Periodicals

    12. $4,000 from Coffin School Replacement of Equipment (instructional)

    Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the transfers totaling $200,000 as presented. Mr. Harris seconded
    the motion.

    Discussion:
    Ms. Schaeffner made noted that the district has identified $200,000 in transfers but we still have $531,411.00 to
    make up which means we need more cuts or find more funding.

    Ms. Tedford noted that over the past 6 years she’s been on this Committee and this district has made great strides
    in curriculum etc. and this is a difficult situation to vote on.

MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                                          01/10/2019

       Ms. Gold stated that even though these cuts will impact many departments in the district, we are responsible to
       close this gap and this is a start. She noted that the Committee and District need to find a solution to the rising
       costs in the Special Education Department as she does not feel there will be a decline in the near future.

       Ms. Tedford asked for a vote for the motion on the table to approve transfers of $200,000.00. The
       Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

  3.   2020 Budget Assumptions/Budget Development
       Dr. Perry and Ms. Tedford noted that these are the priorities and budget drivers for the community and school
       district.
       FY20 Budget Drivers/Goals/Themes
       SALARIES – Contractual Commitments
       1. Honor and fund collective bargaining agreements
             •    Provide Town Finance with forecasted contractual increases December 2018
             •    2.5% cola across all units
             •    Step and lane adjustments
                  o     Estimate step/grade FY20 increase across relevant staff
             •    Retiree savings – 1 committed staff member on early retirement incentive (elementary)
       EXPENSES – Budget Drivers
       2. Special Education - Stabilization/planning for increasing special education outplacements/tuition out funds
             •    Ongoing collaboration with Town Finance on capturing Medicaid reimbursement funding into Special Education Reserve Fund with
                  annual Town Meeting vote
             •    Likely reduction or ineligibility for Circuit Breaker ‘Extraordinary Hardship’ supplemental grant (year 4) ~(125,000) based on prior
                  years (DESE coming into district for a CB audit – may not be eligible for extraordinary hardship going forward – cannot count on
                  it)
             •    Increased Special Education transportation costs – additional vendor service
                  o     Pre-K
                  o     Out of district
       3. Fund loss of State Essential School Health Grant for FY20 - $84,000 which funded lead nurse, substitute nurses, specific student-based
       nursing and wellness supplies and services
       4. Buildings/Facilities/Maintenance - Maintaining building and operational facilities and related inspections/compliance
             •    Level operating budget maintenance services and supplies lines
                        o     Delineation of funding/maintenance categories – operating budget funding more progress on maintenance annually
             •    Town building maintenance Article requests – larger projects
             •    Long term planning – multiyear capital planning – Facilities Committee
             •    Elementary Building Project/Building Committee – Town Meeting
       5. Safety and Security – Improve/progress school building safety and security building on ALICE protocol and guidelines
             •    Supplies and materials recommended by Police/Fire Departments and Nationally accepted public school safety programs
                  o     ALICE classroom intruder ‘kits’ (assist with block/barricade/counter)
                  o     Blinds or window film as appropriate
                  o     Security cameras and walkie-talkies
             •    Services as recommended by the same (above) including door locking devices
             •    Ongoing training including written, onboarding/new hire, continuing pd/licensing
             •    Targeted building initiatives
                  o     High School vestibule/entry way
                  o     Monitors/Building entry staffing
       6. Curriculum – Targeting budget appropriation to advance curriculum. FY20 goals and pacing align with Assistant Superintendent’s strategic
       objectives and curriculum timelines
             •    Curriculum planning and renewal including materials and PD
                  o     Social Studies curriculum work - likely staff hours/planning – materials review/adoption would be year two
                  o     Continued focus on Science standards and materials ‘kits’ – adopted in fiscal 18, fund kit materials replacement only –
                        building budgets
                  o     Go Math! Renewal costs – subscriptions period is up FY18. Defer updating to new edition. Forecast needs for K-5
                        consumables after current inventory – building budgets
             •    Emotional and physical wellness (mindfulness, allergy aware, nutrition/food services)
             •    School Culture and Climate
                  o     Opioid/drug prevention and education
                  o     Self-Respect/Bullying prevention curriculum
       7. Communication Initiative
             •    What does that look like?
                  o     Vendor contracted services

MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                        01/10/2019

                  o     Staffing/FTE – Director of Communications? .5 FTE?
                  o     Funding
             •    Staffing a Director of Communications could encompass:
                  o     written communications to public and stakeholders
                  o     public relations
                  o     press releases
                  o     social media management
                  o     branding
                  o     accentuate the positive
                  o     community partnerships and outreach
                  o     website content/Dashboard content
                  o     records access officer//Public and Media inquires

    4.   Kindergarten Tuition 2019-2020 Recommendation
         Ms. Maniaci stated that all fee based programs are given a full accounting of funds and we try to keep the pace
         with cost of living. It is important to note that the tuition revenue is a supplement, and not a sole source, of total
         funding for district K and Pre-K programming which is in part funded by the district building level operating
         budgets. The average tuition rate for fiscal 19 for those districts not receiving State grant funding toward full day
         kindergarten programming is $3,538. The full day Kindergarten tuition range in reporting comparative districts is
         $1,800 - $5,000. Marblehead no longer receives State Grant Kindergarten funding. Full Day Kindergarten
         programming is NOT mandated by the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education but has long been
         considered an essential best practice for early childhood development and has had 99% or greater full day program
         enrollment in Marblehead. As a factor of the annual district Kindergarten tuition vote, School Committee has
         recommended annual discussion of smaller incremental cost of living tuition increases to alleviate large one
         year variable future increases.

         With this in mind, the school administrative budget and finance team is recommending a 2.5% increase for the
         2019-2020 full day kindergarten tuition rate. This would set the annual rate at $3,516, an increase of $86 over
         school year 2018-2019. The recommended increase seeks only to align with and capture collectively bargained
         COLA increases for Units A and Paras for fiscal 20. Kindergarten tuition revenue pays kindergarten
         professional teaching and support staff and associated fringe insurance, and a 2.5% increase will work to keep
         pace with contractual salary increase expenses for those staff members charged to the tuition revolving fund.
         The district will continue to offer sliding scale financial aid, installment payment options, and appropriate
         discounts for twins/siblings, and second year students.
         As in past practice, a vote to set the FY20 Kindergarten tuition rate will be reflected pro-rata to set the Pre-
         School peer-model tuition rate for FY20. An increase relative to the recommended Kindergarten tuition rate, or
         2.5%, for FY19 would be an annual Pre-School peer-model tuition rate of $4,340 full day/$2,196 half day, an
         increase of $106 full/$54 half over school year 2019-2020.

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. School Committee meetings dates for 2019-2020
       The dates for School Committee meetings for the 2019-2020 school year were distributed. She noted that this will
       be voted on at a subsequent meeting.

         Ms. Tedford made note that the meeting on January 24th was to be at the Veterans School but will now take place
         at the High School so it can be televised live.

    2.   BCG Building Update
         Mr. Harris gave a brief update on the progress of the Building project and noted that the Schematic Design was
         submitted and that they received feedback the first week in January. We had anticipated that we would appear
         before the MSBA for a Facilities Assessment meeting but our OPM heard from the MSBA and they are pleased
         with the submittal. We have listened to the MSBA’s recommendations as we went through the Schematic Design
         and the cost of our project has continued to come down. We hope to receive a decision around February 13th for a
         date when we meet before them. This is all good news. The BCG will have a meeting next Thursday, January 17th
         at 7:00pm at the Glover School and a joint meeting of the BCG Committee with the School Committee on January
         31st with a guest trainer from Jason Tait from OCPF (Office of Campaign and Political Finance). He will be doing
         a training for all of us on the do’s and don’ts in regards to public employees, elected officials and appointed

MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                     01/10/2019

          officials in what they can and can’t do in regards to advocacy and campaigning for the project. The meeting will
          begin at 6:30pm and will be held at the Glover School.

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
        none

     B. Correspondence
        Ms. Tedford noted she will send out thank you notes to those who gave donations.

     C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn was made and seconded and the meeting adjourned at 8:42pm.

                                                                           Respectfully submitted,
                                                                           Sarah Gold
                                                                           Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
SC Minutes: 11/15/18; 12/5/18
Fitness Center floor
Approval of contract addendum for the asbestos abatement
Acceptance of Donations
School Calendar 2019-2020 draft/discussion (in packets)
Schedule of Bills
YTD Budget Executive Summary
2020 Budget Assumptions/Budget Development
Kindergarten Tuition 2019-2020 Recommendation
School Committee meetings dates for 2019-2020

Approved 2/7/2019

