                 Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                        and the Marblehead School Committee
                                    Meeting Minutes
                                    August 23, 2018
                Veterans Middle School – 217 Pleasant Street – 7:00PM

Building Committee Members Present: Emily Barron, Jackie Belf-Becker (non-voting),
Eileen D’Amour, Sarah Fox, Dave Harris, Ken Lord, Amanda Maniaci, Maryann Perry,
Jeremy Pollender, Cindy Schieffer, Jason Silva, Ralph Wallace, Donna Zaeske and Jim Zisson.
Mr. Blair Nelson of the Finance Committee sat in for Mr. Berman, who was absent.

Building Committee Members Absent: Ben Berman, Kelly Lyons, Catherine Martin,
Richard Matthews, Elizabeth Rudzinski, Sean Satterfield, Aimee Sheppard, Ben Szalewicz
and Erik Weibust.

School Committee Members Present: Dave Harris, Maryann Perry, Meredith Tedford and
Sarah Gold.

School Committee Members Absent: Jennifer Schaeffner and Meghan Taylor.

Guests: David Saindon, Jim Rogers and Brian Dakin (Leftfield)

   1. Call to order
      Mr. Harris called the Building Committee meeting to order at 7:03pm.
      Ms. Tedford called the School Committee meeting to order at 7:03PM.

   2. Approval of Building Committee Minutes from 08/09/18 Meeting
      Mr. Wallace made a Building Committee motion to approve the meeting minutes for
      the 08/09/18 meeting. The motion was seconded by Ms. Zaeske and passed
      unanimously by those Building Committee present tonight and on August 9th, 9-0-9-
      4.
      Ms. Baron, Ms. D’Amour, Ms. Maniaci and Ms. Schieffer abstained, as they were absent
      from the August 9th meeting.

   3. Approval of Building Committee Invoices and Commitments
      Mr. Saindon noted there are no invoices for approval tonight.

   4. BRR Approvals
      Mr. Saindon explained that Budget Revision Request #2 (“BRR-2”) is a document
      that aligns the project budget with the previous Building Committee decision to
      authorize GGD to perform a photovoltaic (“PV”) study and analysis of the Bell site
      and fund it from Owner’s contingency. He noted that the study is complete and that
      the next time RDA is in attendance they will present an update. He summarized that
      BRR-2 totals $1,980 and is a standard MSBA form that needs to be signed by certain
      members after presentation and approval by the Building Committee. Mr. Pollender
      noted that at the original meeting when this study was discussed, the Light
      Department noted that it could reimburse the School Committee for the
      expenditure. Mr. Harris responded that he is in the process of scheduling a meeting

18_0823 GESBC Minutes_Final
Page 1 of 7
                Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                       and the Marblehead School Committee
                                   Meeting Minutes
                                   August 23, 2018
               Veterans Middle School – 217 Pleasant Street – 7:00PM

      with the General Manager of Marblehead Light and other key participants including
      RDA and Leftfield, hopefully before the next Building Committee meeting on
      September 6th to review the PV study, the potential for financing and
      reimbursement as well as some other items the Light Department would like to
      discuss such as onsite solar carports and electric vehicle chargers.
      Mr. Saindon presented BRR-3 for $2,750, which would authorizate and fund an
      updated PSR estimate for inclusion in the final PSR submission and incorporate
      recent decisions such as the L-shaped layout, displacement HVAC with full cooling
      and the flat roof. This work would be funded by remaining Owner’s Contingency. Mr.
      Harris explained that MSBA noted concerns about the cost of the project at the
      Facilities Assessment Sub-Committee (“FAS”) meeting and noted the previous
      Building Committee discussion that many of the recent decisions will reduce the
      cost of the previous PSR and show the MSBA that the project is responsive to their
      concerns and actively working to balance what is educationally appropriate with
      cost efficiency. Mr. Nelson asked what total order of magnitude that the PSR budget
      might be reduced by considering all of these decisions. Mr. Harris noted that if the
      individual estimated savings for each item were simply added together, a reduction
      of building/site costs of approximately $1.1m is possible.
      Ms. Schieffer made a Building Committee motion to approve BRR-2 and BRR-3 as
      presented tonight. The motion was seconded by Mr. Wallace and approved
      unanimously by those Building Committee members present, 13-0-9-0.

      Ms. Fox asked if the remaining contingency value is adequate, and Mr. Wallace asked
      if it would last the project until the pending Town vote. Mr. Saindon indicated he felt
      while the remaining contingency is lean, it can be adequate if cost-efficient decisions
      are made.

   5. Chairman Update(s):
      Mr. Harris noted that he forwarded both the MSBA’s PSR comments and the
      project’s responses to the Building Committee and noted that some of the responses
      indicated that information would be provided via the final PSR submission to the
      MSBA on September 12th. He continued that one such item is a redlined educational
      plan from the School (which he understood to be underway) and a second is the
      question of capacity within the school system to absorb the Bell students during
      constriction. He asked Ms. Perry for an update.
      Ms. Perry indicated that she felt the question of capacity is related to the Glover
      School and continued by explaining that originally, MSBA noted that Glover was to
      house 2 collaborative rooms and other District-wide SPED rooms. However, the
      collaborative rooms have since been relocated, PreK has moved from Bell to Glover,
      and more SPED spaces have opened throughout the system due to demand. She
      noted that SPED is not 23 students from class, that is would be 5-8 students max,
      and that when building Glover the SPED rooms were required to be sized based on

18_0823 GESBC Minutes_Final
Page 2 of 7
                Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                       and the Marblehead School Committee
                                   Meeting Minutes
                                   August 23, 2018
               Veterans Middle School – 217 Pleasant Street – 7:00PM

      them being “regular classrooms” with 20+ students. She explained that on paper,
      these “large” rooms might look to house many more SPED students than the MSBA
      realizes and noted that this is likely at the core of the confusion about why this
      project is looking for the SPED spaces that it is. If MSBA thinks that there is space
      available at Glover (which she noted there isn’t), then she could understand them
      questioning additional space beyond the current guidelines. However, based on how
      the spaces are used, and all rooms being full and Glover being at capacity, the
      additional square footage currently in the ISS is required. She continued, explaining
      that an additional question is if students can be housed somewhat comfortably
      throughout the system after Bell is closed for construction, then why does the new
      building need to be the size it is. She noted that the response will show that the
      system can temporarily sustain the added population but that it will be very tight
      and will be completed by having most programs occur inside the classroom as
      opposed to in dedicated rooms such as art and music. She reiterated that there is no
      extra space within the existing schools and that the new 450 student building,
      complete with the SPED rooms above the MSBA template, is required for the
      effective and proper delivery of education and that the response to the MSBA will
      look to clearly explain and confirm this. She indicated she feels that the design of
      this new facility is efficient and without unnecessary bells and whistles or unneeded
      spaces. Mr. Robert Bellucci, the Director of Special Education in Marblehead, noted
      that the last time students were brought into the Village School to allow for work to
      happen at another site, the program lost 3 students because parents felt that
      squeezing the programs in via larger student counts and classroom dividers
      negatively impacted their children’s education to the degree that they took them
      elsewhere. He also noted that since the Glover was built various regulation and laws
      regarding restraint, discipline and autism awareness have been created or changed.
      Mr. Bellucci summarized that special services and programs have increased and will
      continue to, and that he felt that DESE and MSBA ultimately will agree with this
      assessment.
      The Building Committee discussed enrollment, the distribution of students in
      various programs and buildings, and the various facilities that would be taken
      offline and possibly re-purposed or turned over to the Town. Ms. Perry noted that
      this would all be summarized and included in the explanation to the MSBA. Mr.
      Harris noted that the analysis will show that modular classrooms are not needed,
      which would be a major cost impact to the project and therefor of particular interest
      of the MSBA. Mr. Zisson requested the Mr. Lord or the School Department check
      enrollment for this new school year to compare it to the last projection. Ms. Fox
      asked whether it’s possible that the MSBA would require the school enrollment or
      size to be made smaller despite the fact that the Building Committee has spent a few
      years making the determination that this 450 student school was the most
      appropriate option. Mr. Saindon responded that while it’s very unlikely the MSBA
      would require a smaller enrollment, their standard process of reviewing the

18_0823 GESBC Minutes_Final
Page 3 of 7
                Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                       and the Marblehead School Committee
                                   Meeting Minutes
                                   August 23, 2018
               Veterans Middle School – 217 Pleasant Street – 7:00PM

      project’s space summary, and square footage, could result in them not offering
      reimbursement for certain spaces that the project would nevertheless be able to
      build (these spaces would just need to be 100% funded by Marblehead). Mr.
      Saindon noted that this process of marking certain spaces as “ineligible” is common
      to all MSBA projects and that he has never experienced a project where the MSBA
      reduced enrollment mid-process or reduced square footage beyond the usual
      eligible/ineligible review. The Building Committee further discussed the process of
      determining whether spaces are eligible or ineligible for reimbursement. Mr.
      Wallace noted that the MSBA’s determinations are based on their standards, and the
      DESE’s approval, and noted that this process should not be thought of as a reduction
      of enrollment, rather a determination of what areas are beyond the MSBA’s
      standards and therefor ineligible for reimbursement.

      Mr. Harris summarized that RDA is finalizing the L-shaped building layout and
      getting pricing updates for inclusion in the final PSR and that Ms. Perry is working
      on redline space plan and the capacity explanation as discussed tonight. He
      indicated that this is why there is a proposed September 6th joint Building and
      School Committee meeting so that the final PSR can be approved for submission to
      the MSBA by September 12th.

   6. OPM/Designer Update(s)
      Mr. Harris noted there was no update tonight.

      CR-R VS. Design-Bid-Build Methodology
      Mr. Saindon noted that this topic was presented at length at the July 12th Building
      Committee meeting and felt there likely was a consensus that CM-R was the
      preference, however that no motions were fielded at that meeting. He explained that
      it would be advantageous if this decision was made as soon as possible so that it can
      be included in the final PSR. He explained that estimators include a CM contingency
      on a CM-R project and that changes the construction estimate. Mr. Pollender asked
      how the decision affects the construction estimate and total budget. Mr. Saindon
      explained that such a contingency would still be in the total project budget either
      way, but in a CM-R process it’s carried within the construction estimate. Mr.
      Pollender asked what happens to any unspent contingency in the CM-R process, and
      Mr. Saindon responded that all unspent contingency money is returned to the
      Owner. Mr. Pollender asked whether the CM needs permission to use the CM
      contingency, and Mr. Saindon explained that a protocol would be put in place that all
      parties, including the Committee, are comfortable with. Mr. Lord noted that he felt
      the ability to involve a CM earlier in design and the ability to start construction
      faster were major benefits of the CM-R option. Ms. Schieffer noted that she felt
      hearing that higher caliber contractors typically work in the CM-R realm is a major
      benefit as well. Mr. Wallace noted that benefits to CM-R also include CM-R

18_0823 GESBC Minutes_Final
Page 4 of 7
                Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                       and the Marblehead School Committee
                                   Meeting Minutes
                                   August 23, 2018
               Veterans Middle School – 217 Pleasant Street – 7:00PM

      contractors being general of a higher skill and quality level and more control over
      the firm selection via a qualifications-based selection process. Mr. Pollender asked
      whether the same filed sub-bid rules apply to CM-R and Mr. Dakin and Mr. Saindon
      explained that while the same procurement laws and processes apply, a CM-R
      project is able to plug each contractors budget line with with holds with allowances
      where necessary to minimize change orders.

      Mr. Lord made a motion for the project to proceed with procurement of contractor
      services via usage of the Chapter 149A CM-At-Risk process. The motion was
      seconded by Mr. Pollender and passed unanimously by those present, 13-0-9-0.

      Educational Space Summary, Building Square Footage and MSBA Eligibility
      Review (Drivers – Price, Size, Parity to Glover?)
      Mr. Harris noted that there was no vote on this matter intended for tonight and
      recapped that the basis of this discussion is about MSBA comments about the
      eligibility of certain spaces which are over their guidelines. Mr. Saindon presented a
      category-by-category breakdown the net square footage (“NSF”) titled “Bell-Coffin-
      Gerry Space Summary Analysis, August 22, 2018” and showed how the project
      related to the MSBA guidelines in each. He noted that per MSBA comment, the PreK
      NSF was moved to the core academic category and will be considered eligible but
      the size must be capped at the MSBA guideline limit. Mr. Saindon noted that SPED
      was 2,825 over and that this overage is what the Committee has been discussing
      tonight and at previous meeting and noted the 900 sqft overage in Admin &
      Guidance that represented the Multi-Purpose room. Ms. Perry noted that most
      categories were not over the MSBA guidelines and discussed that this program is
      subject to DESE approval. Ms. Maniaci asked if DESE approves the proposed space
      summary, whether the overages in those categories would then be considered
      eligible. Mr. Saindon responded that his opinion is that if the DESE provided
      approval the spaces might be considered eligible, but that final DESE approval
      would not come until the conclusion of Schematic Design. Mr. Saindon completed
      review of the NSF breakdown and also revisited a slide from a previous June 28th
      Building Committee meeting showing that this project provides parity to Glover.
      The Committees further discussed the data, agreeing that it will be important to be
      able to clearly and succinctly explain this to voters. Mr. Saindon indicated that such
      analysis has been started by Leftfield and will be ready for review in the coming
      weeks. Ms. Tedford noted that this space summary analysis and parity comparison
      to Glover should be presented at a future School Committee meeting to help spread
      the word, Mr. Harris agreed.

      Schedule Review for Delivery of PSR
      Mr. Saindon noted that the revised/final PSR was due to the MSBA on September
      12th and that deliverables are targeted for completion a week or so before that
18_0823 GESBC Minutes_Final
Page 5 of 7
                Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                       and the Marblehead School Committee
                                   Meeting Minutes
                                   August 23, 2018
               Veterans Middle School – 217 Pleasant Street – 7:00PM

      deadline so that they could be packaged, checked and sent to MSBA. He explained
      that he views a September 6th joint Building and School Committee as required to
      approve the updated PSR. Ms. Tedford noted that there is already a full agenda for
      the September 6th School Committee meeting, but that something could be worked
      out. The Committees discussed what items need review and approval from which
      Committee, agreeing that approval of the L-shaped option by the Building
      Committee was important, and completed, and that details related to the capacity of
      the school system during construction were details that can be worked out by the
      school administration. It was also agreed that overall approval to submit the
      updated PSR was required by both Committees on September 6th. Ms. Perry noted
      that some items would still be in progress at that point, as there is a meeting
      scheduled with RDA for September 7th. Mr. Nelson and Ms. Schieffer noted that a
      clear explanation of the administrations plan for where to locate programs during
      construction would benefit the public and parents. Mr. Saindon noted that items
      that will be new or updated in the PSR which is to be approved by both Committees
      on September 6th include the redline ISS, the capacity question response, the L-
      shaped plans, flat roof, displacement HVAC with full AC clarification, revised site
      plan with less parking, CM-R methodology for contractor procurement and an
      updated project schedule and construction cost estimate. It was agreed that the PSR
      will be submitted at the 82,331 gross square footage. The Committee further
      discussed the capacity issue, noting the importance to communicate that while the
      temporary burden placed on other schools and students is manageable, it is not an
      acceptable mid or long term solution as there is not proper capacity in those
      buildings to house the added students beyond the few years required to demolish
      and re-build at the Bell site.

      Schematic Design Phase Look-Ahead
      Mr. Saindon highlighted upcoming target dates including the September 6th joint BC
      and SC meeting, September 12th submission of the revised/final PSR, September 26th
      attendance of a second MSBA FAS meeting, October 31st MSA BOD meeting, and a
      +/- target of December 20th to submit the final Schematic Design package to the
      MSBA. This would lead to a February 13th MSBA BOD final approval meeting.

   7. Schematic Design Update(s):
      Provided above.

   8. New Business
      Mr. Saindon briefly reviewed an updated site plan that was sent by RDA and noted
      that it would be presented and discussed in more detail at an upcoming meeting.




18_0823 GESBC Minutes_Final
Page 6 of 7
                 Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                        and the Marblehead School Committee
                                    Meeting Minutes
                                    August 23, 2018
                Veterans Middle School – 217 Pleasant Street – 7:00PM

   9. Public Comment
      Pat Franklin – Asked if the MSBA-requested redline ed spec relates directly to
      square footage discussion, and Ms. Perry and Mr. Harris clarified that it does not.

   10. Adjournment
       A motion to adjourn the Building Committee meeting was made by Ms. Zaeske and
       seconded by Mr. Wallace. The motion was approved unanimously by those Building
       Committee members present, 13-0-9-0. The meeting adjourned at 8:56pm.

      A motion to adjourn the School Committee meeting was made by Mr. Harris and
      seconded by Ms. Gold. The motion was approved unanimously by those School
      Committee members present, 4-0-2-0. The meeting adjourned at 8:56pm.




18_0823 GESBC Minutes_Final
Page 7 of 7
