                                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                            Thursday, September 20, 2018
                                               Marblehead High School

Members Present:                           Meredith Tedford, David Harris, Jennifer Schaeffner
                                           Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor

Also:                                      Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                           Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                           Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                           Robert Bellucci, Dir. Of Student Services & Program Acct.
                                           Rachel Bowen, Director of Human Resources

Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 7:00pm.

     B. Commendations
        Dr. Perry sent a “shout out” to all the fall teams and noted that we are proud of their demeanor, their academics as
        well as their performance.

         Ms. Tedford thanked James Mahoney of MHTV as well as the students who are helping him.

     C. Public Comment

     D. Student Representative
        Dan Howells, Student Rep, Sophomore and Class President
        • Freshman elections for Student Government/Council will be October 4th
        • Most clubs and sports have begun
        • There is a Club Fair later on this month
        • October 6 the MHS chorus will be performing at the Sustainability Fair
        • Ed Gerety gave a motivational speech to all classes, Student Government Officers, and team leaders
        • The orchestra will be performing at the MHS Open house next Tuesday, September 25th National honor soc.
        • College visits have begun

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
    1. Minutes: 8/1/2018
       Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the minutes of 8/1/2018. The motion was seconded by Ms. Gold and the
       Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

         Minutes: 9/6/18
         Ms. Gold noted that a request to add a statement that was made at that meeting should be included as part of the
         approval of the minutes. Under Gerry Warrant Article, include statement: “Ms. Schaeffner reminded the
         community that the decision of what is to be done with the building will be done at the Town meeting.”

         Mr. Harris made motion to approve the minutes of 9/6/2018 with the addition of the statement. The motion was
         seconded by Ms. Taylor and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
         1. Community Service-High School
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                     9/20/2018

          Dan Bauer, principal at MHS, introduced Mr. Ron Grenier who has been involved in this Service Learning
          project at the high school by putting together a center of community engagement. Mr. Bauer noted that in the
          near future, we will create a day of service where the students go into the community and give back to the
          community. Last year two students did this for a senior project and created a catalog of community service
          opportunities. This year, on October 24th from 8-12, our Freshman will go out to 14 different sites or projects
          in and around Marblehead and will return for a reflection piece after the day of service.

     2. ALICE update
        Dr. Perry stated that most administrators were trained as trainers in the ALICE protocol. On October 9th there
        will be a full day for the entire staff and faculty on ALICE protocol. By October 29th we hope to invite parents
        and community to explain this protocol which will then be presented to the students.

     3.    Superintendent/District Goals
           Ms. Tedford explained that since Dr. Perry has been a long time returning superintendent the Committee can
           have an informal review.

          a.   Superintendent’s Performance Goals 2017-18
               Student Learning:
               •    Allergy Awareness
               •    Service Learning
               •    Science Curriculum Alignment
               District Improvement:
               •    HS 1:1 Student Technology Devices
               •    Gerry School Building Committee
               •    Online Training and Fee Payment
               •    Human Resources Efficiency
               Professional Practice:
               •    District Wide Social Climate and Culture
               •    Communication

               Discussion followed with SC members discussing the possibility of having a PR person on retainer for
               extremely sensitive communications. This item will be placed on another agenda.

          b.   Superintendent’s Goals final narrative
               Expansion on goals noted above

          c.   FY19 District Goals
               1. Improvement and expansion of Safety and Security measures, and associated training and education for all
               students and staff
                          a. ALICE – train the trainer institute and subsequent in house staff PD and student education
                          b. Additional security cameras
                          c. Additional communication efforts and emergency preparedness including Walkie-Talkies with
                               Town emergency department connection
                          d. Continued work on crisis management/crisis response district protocol including
                               reunification/communication tree/chain
                          e. HS entrance
                          f. HS SRO/Hall monitors – building ongoing student connections

               2. Facilitate and advance new elementary building project working in support and collaboration with the
                  Building Committee
                           a. Committee work
                           b. Town Meeting prep
                           c. Communication initiatives

               3. Continuous efforts in transparency, shared information and communication with the community, students
                  and families




                                                           2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                                9/20/2018

                                a.   Website current and organized
                                b.   Transparency in updates and communications
                                c.   District and building level community and family communications through multiple vehicles –
                                     electronic, Twitter, website

                  4. Fund and Stabilize special education tuition out budget with operational and budgeting efficiencies and
                     revenue drivers
                              a. Maximize Medicaid reimbursement
                              b. File for CB extraordinary maintenance
                              c. Efficient use of special education internal level services operating budget
                              d. Efficient use of federal grant funding (rising transportation challenges)
                              e. Drive and seek new tuition in students for revenue
                              f. Most efficient use of Town special education reserve 250k
                              g. Collaborate with Town if additional Ch. 70 money earmarked for special education expenditures

                 Ms. Tedford suggested adding the facilities sub-committee to this list of goals.

                   5. Curriculum Goals 2018-2019
                       a. K-8 Science Curriculum Alignment
                       b. Differentiated Instruction in ELA and Math
                       c. PBIS and Social-Emotional Learning
                       d. Educator Development and Retention UBD Unit Development
                       e. ELA and Math Support for at-risk and ELL students
                       f. Parent and Community Engagement to Support Student Achievement
                       g. RTI Implementation and Resource Reallocation

            d.     Curriculum renewal plan
                   Review of multi-year curriculum Review and Revision Plan 2015-2010 (document online with mtg. documents)

                   Ms. Taylor suggested that the SC have discussion on their goals. Ms. Tedford said she would speak to Mr. Gilbert for
                   the best way to accomplish this task.

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills

        #16990 $     895.00
        #17020 $ 1,170.00
        #17023 $ 84,811.28
        #17039 $ 175,100.80
        #17040 $ 40,556.00
        #17044 $ 24,802.16
        Total $ 327,335.24

        Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the schedule of bills for September 20, 2018 totaling $327,335.24. The
        motion was seconded by Ms. Gold and the Committee VOTED unanimously in favor.

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. BCG Building Update
      Mr. Harris noted that the building Committee submitted the PSR.

       Letter received from MSBA inviting Town and School District to appear before the MSBA. The Facilities
       Assessment Sub-Committee will meet to hear the district’s presentation on the Gerry Elementary project and will
       provide feedback to the district before the proposed project is presented to the MSBA Board on October 31, 2018.
       This is an informational meeting only and is intended to provide an opportunity for our board members to better
       understand the district’s proposed project. Any formal actions needed by the board to fulfill, the MSBA procedures
       will continue to be taken out at our regularly scheduled board meetings. We can submit between 12-15 slides but no
       more. Next Building committee meeting is on September 27th and we will be going to the MSBA on the 26th.



                                                                    3
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                             9/20/2018

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business

     B. Correspondence

     C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn was made and seconded and the Committee VOTED unanimously to adjourn. The public
        session of the meeting ended at 9:16 pm.
                                                                     Respectfully submitted,
                                                                     Sarah Gold
                                                                     Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
Minutes: 8/1/2018; 9/6/2018                      (
Community Service-High School power point
Superintendent’s Goals 18
Superintendent’s Goals final narrative
FY19 District Goals
Curriculum Goals FY19
Curriculum renewal plan
Schedule of Bills




Approved 10 18 2018




                                                        4
