                                  Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                               Wednesday, August 1, 2018
                                                Veterans Middle School

Members Present:                           Meredith Tedford, David Harris, Jennifer Schaeffner
                                           Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor

Also:                                      Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                           Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                           Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                           Robert Bellucci, Dir. Of Student Services & Program Acct.
                                           Rachel Bowen, Director of Human Resources

Members Absent:


I. Initial Business

1. Call to Order
   Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 8:30am. She asked for a motion to go into executive session.

2. Ms. Schaeffner made motion to meet in executive session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A section
   21 (a), purpose (2) to conduct a strategy session in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel, specifically, the
   superintendent with the purpose of returning to open session. The motion was seconded by Ms. Taylor. The Committee
   VOTED unanimously in favor.


8:50 am Return to Open Session

II. Consent Agenda and Action Items

   1.   SC Minutes 6/20/18 and 6/29/18
        Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the minutes of 6/20/18 and 6/29/18. The motion was seconded by Ms.
        Gold and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

   2.   Approval of Sup contract amendment-current coursework
        Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the amendment to the Superintendent’s contract for vacation payout for
        2017-18 and re-allotment for tuition reimbursement for expedited coursework over past 4 years, and institute and
        membership fees. The motion was seconded by Ms. Taylor and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in
        favor.

        Motion to approve 2 courses for Dissertation applicable to this was made by Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms.
        Schaeffner. Discussion followed. Mr. Harris asked if there was a dollar amount to these courses. Ms. Tedford
        noted it shall not exceed $7,100 in 2019. The Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

   3.   Custodial Items to be declared as surplus
        Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the list of custodial items presented as surplus. The motion was seconded
        by Ms. Gold and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                     8/1/2018

 4.   Bill Schedules
      Schedule of bills payable for 2018 is as follows:
      #16797              $ 96,394.20
      #16843              $ 10,278.00
                         $106,672.20

      Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the Schedule of Bills for 2018. The motion was seconded by Ms. Gold and
      the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.


      Schedule of Bills for 2019 is as follows:
      #16808     $136,678.07
      #16818     $ 1,204.81
      #16828     $      255.00
      #16842     $ 72,570.01
      #16844     $ 35,240.40
      #16845     $      215.64
      #16846     $ 87,056.23
      #16852     $      281.25
                 $333,501.41

      Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the Schedule of Bills for 2019. The motion was seconded by Ms. Gold and
      the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

 5.   Boosters – Field Advertising (Policy KHB)
      Ms. Tedford explained that the Booster Club has been given a conditional grant from The Friend of $50,000 if they
      can match that amount. The goal is to help defray the cost to renovate the workout rooms into a Fitness/Wellness
      Center that all students can use. The Boosters are fundraising and are asking the Committee approval to sell
      advertising banners that will be displayed at the football field. These banners would be allowed to hand for two
      years. The Boosters will maintain the banners and the school district will not be responsible for vandalism or for
      putting up or taking down banners.

      Ms. Gold made motion to approve the request to allow the Boosters to sell advertising banners. The motion was
      seconded by Ms. Schaeffner.

      Ms. Gold made motion to amend the original motion to approve advertising banners for the purpose of raising funds
      for the Fitness Center for annual SC approval and that any two year banner sold would be allowed to hang for the
      two years. The motion was seconded by Ms. Schaeffner. The Committee VOTED unanimously in favor.

      Ms. Harris made motion to approve the amended motion. It was seconded by Ms. Schaeffner. The Committee
      VOTED unanimously in favor.

 6.   MASC Conference
      Ms. Taylor noted that she attended the MASC Summer Retreat and shared information on the workshops she
      attended.

      A motion to reimburse Ms. Taylor the $75.00 for the MASC Summer Conference was made by Ms. Schaeffner and
      seconded by Ms. Gold. The Committee VOTED unanimously in favor.

      Ms. Tedford noted that the MASC/MASS joint Conference will be held November 7-10th. She noted that she has
      attended most years but would like to open the opportunity to other members. She explained that she will re-address
      the conference in September when the full agenda is available and then perhaps different members can attend
      different workshops on different days.




                                                          2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                      8/1/2018

III. Retreat Agenda
     Workshop with Elizabeth Valerio - Valerio Dominello & Hillman, LLC
      Open Meeting Law
           •    Open Meeting Law discussion
           •    What constituted a meeting versus a gathering/training/public event
           •    Use of school email for school business
           •    Remote participation: must have a roll call vote and remote participant must be able to view all
                documents
           •    Chair must inform attendees that meeting is recorded
           •    Change in the performance evaluation of the Superintendent
           •    Recommended that our policy is not an open forum. Anyone wishing to speak can only speak on items
                on agenda. Change policy to read public comment not participation and specify only comment on items
                on the agenda. Set a specific time frame for public comment

      Sub-Committees/Agenda setting
           •    If you do a public hearing, do a joint meeting with SC and Bldg. committee.


      Bell, Coffin, Gerry Building Committee Advocacy/Town Meeting
            • For Town meeting, you can give out the date and time of the meeting and give a link to the Town
                Warrant but cannot point out individual warrants
            • At public meetings we vote to support any decision on building.
            • Distribution of materials should be sent to OCPF first but should be free of asking anyone to vote for a
                specific warrant
            • If a Ballot Committee is formed then that committee promotes a yes vote for that warrant item. As a
                School Committee member, you cannot raise money for the Ballot Committee because it’s a conflict of
                interest. You can donate money but you can’t raise money
            • Office of Campaign Finance or the Ethics Commission should be contacted before you do anything

      JANUS Decision
           Elizabeth Valerio gave a brief overview of how the JANUS decision could affect our district


   Workshop with Mike Gilbert – Massachusetts Association of School Committees
   Mike Gilbert reviewed the Committee’s roles, responsibilities, need to establish operating protocols and the importance
   of the mid-year check in.
            • Roles and Responsibilities
            • Operating Protocols
            • Mid-year check in

   Other School Committee Retreat Agenda Items for discussion
   Ms. Tedford briefly reviewed the following documents with the members:
          Liaison positions
           •    A sub-committee should only consist of committee members
           •    Safety Committee should be a Superintendent’s Advisory committee due to the nature of the content.
                Any budget decisions that might be made on safety issues should be followed up in an open meeting
           •    A School Committee member liaison to School Councils is not a member of the school council group
                because they are a SC member
           •    SEPAC is an advisory to the School Committee

          Reports Calendar agenda items distributed to members




                                                           3
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                            8/1/2018


              Current Class Size Enrollment
               Ms. Perry explained that this document shows how many class sections of grades K-4 there are this year
               compared to last year.

              Strategic Plan - (annual goals debriefing and next steps)
               Due to the time restraint, Ms. Tedford moved this agenda item to another meeting.

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
        Mr. Harris noted that the Building Committee meets a week from this Thursday. At this meeting that will made
        decision on the shape of the building, air condition, the slant of the roof, etc.

          Ms. Tedford stated that there are no other updates on the Bell Organic Garden and when we she has results all
          members will receive an update.

          Ms. Schaeffner made motion to allow public comment at this retreat and the motion was seconded by Mr. Harris.
          The Committee VOTED 4 in favor, 1 opposed. The motion passed.

          Public Comment:

          Katherine Martin, 29 West Shore Drive. Ms. Martin noted that she is on the Organic Garden Committee and she
          would like the garden to be up and running by September. She asked for a timeline when testing will be done and
          when the new soil will be added.

          Alexia Carney, 9 Gregory Street, asked the district to help find a solution so that the children can return to school
          and learn from the curriculum provided by the organic garden.

     B. Correspondence
        Ms. Tedford asked if the Committee clerk could take on the task of sending thank you notices to those who have
        donated or to those who have presented.

     C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn was made and seconded and the meeting adjourned at 2:20pm.


                                                                               Respectfully submitted,
                                                                               Sarah Gold
                                                                               Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
SC Minutes 6/20/18 and 6/29/18
Approval of Sup contract amendment-current coursework
Custodial Items to be declared as surplus
Bill Schedules 2018 and 2019
Boosters – Field Advertising (Policy KHB)
MASC Conference
Liaison positions
Reports Calendar
Current Class Size Enrollment




Approved 9/20/2018



                                                                4
