                 Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                        and the Marblehead School Committee
                                    Meeting Minutes
                                   September 6, 2018
                Marblehead High School – 2 Humphrey Street – 6:00PM

Building Committee Members Present: Emily Barron, Jackie Belf-Becker (non-voting),
Eileen D’Amour, Sarah Fox, Dave Harris, Ken Lord, Amanda Maniaci, Catherine Martin,
Maryann Perry, Jeremy Pollender, Elizabeth Rudzinski, Sean Satterfield, Cindy Schieffer,
Aimee Sheppard, Ralph Wallace, Erik Weibust, Donna Zaeske and Jim Zisson.
Mr. Pat Franklin of the Finance Committee sat in for Mr. Berman, who was absent.

Building Committee Members Absent: Ben Berman, Kelly Lyons, Jason Silva and Ben
Szalewicz.

School Committee Members Present: Sarah Gold, Dave Harris, Maryann Perry, Jennifer
Schaeffner, Meghan Taylor and Meredith Tedford.

School Committee Members Absent: None.

Guests: David Saindon, Jim Rogers and Brian Dakin (Leftfield), Gene Raymond and John
Bartecchi (RDA).

   1. Call to order
      Mr. Harris called the Building Committee meeting to order at 6:00PM.
      Ms. Tedford called the School Committee meeting to order at 6:00PM.

   2. Approval of Building Committee Minutes from 08/23/18 Meeting
      Mr. Zisson made a Building Committee motion to approve the meeting minutes for
      the 08/23/18 meeting. The motion was seconded by Ms. Schieffer and passed
      unanimously by those Building Committee present tonight and on August 9th, 12-0-
      4-5. (Yes-No-Absent-Abstained)
      Ms. Martin, Ms. Rudzinski, Mr. Satterfield, Ms. Sheppard and Mr. Weibust abstained, as
      they were absent from the August 23d meeting.

   3. Approval of Building Committee Invoices and Commitments
      Mr. Saindon presented an invoice log dated 9/6/18 totaling $40,556.00 which
      included two Leftfield invoices (July and August, each for $10,278.00) and an RDA
      invoice for $20,000.00. Mr. Lord asked if $20k is the typical RDA monthly billing
      amount, Mr. Saindon indicated that RDA’s monthly billing amount can vary.
      A Building Committee motion was made by Ms. Perry to approve the invoices as
      presented tonight on the invoice log dated 9/6/18 totaling $40,556.00. The motion
      was seconded by Mr. Lord and approved unanimously by those Building Committee
      members present, 17-0-4-0.

   4. Chair Update
      Mr. Harris indicated that the main goal of tonight’s meeting is to authorize RDA and
      Leftfield to submit the updated PSR to the MSBA on September 12th. He explained

18_0906 GESBC Minutes_Final
Page 1 of 6
                Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                       and the Marblehead School Committee
                                   Meeting Minutes
                                  September 6, 2018
               Marblehead High School – 2 Humphrey Street – 6:00PM

      that this is the second version of the PSR to be submitted and is a result of ongoing
      recent project development that the MSBA Facilities Assessment Subcommittee
      (“FAS”) requested for that development to be captured in a new submission.
      Mr. Raymond presented an update to the Committees titled “Schematic Design PSR
      Update Report - September 6, 2018”. Highlights include an update site plan (which
      responds to FAS comments about reducing parking back from the 127 site
      maximum to 100, adding green space around the site and building perimeter, the
      developed L-shaped building layout, revised bus loop and an extended drop-off
      sidewalk) and updated “L-shaped” building plans (showing a refined entry lobby
      layout, resolved egress stairwell configurations, the office suite at the main entry as
      opposed to SPED space, all custodial, kitchen and back of house space located in the
      corner of the ground floor, a community wing with the gym, auditorium and stage
      that can be closed off from the rest of the building, SPED distributed throughout the
      building, all grades in clusters, the media center on the upper floor overlooking the
      play space and the multi-purpose room on the second floor.
      The Committee discussed emailing plans that were more legible than those in the
      handout, location of SPED rooms and building entry security. It was noted that other
      schools have more than one entry, and that the plan is to have the remote entry
      staffed during pick-up and drop-off then locked during all other times. All people
      entering the building outside of pick-up and drop-off will be routed through the
      front door, which will be locked an monitored. Mr. Raymond noted that he felt these
      plans are closely in synch with the current ed plan. Public conference space was
      discussed, and Mr. Raymond noted that this could occur in the multi-purpose room,
      which might be relocated to the first floor as the plan develops.
      Mr. Raymond recapped the previously presented “Bell-Coffin-Gerry Space summary
      Analysis dated August 22, 2018” highlighting the three programmatic areas which
      are in excess of the MSBA space summary guidelines and the 6 categories that the
      project is within the guidelines. Mr. Harris and Mr. Saindon noted that the MSBA
      requested that the PreK classrooms be moved to Core Academic and brought up (by
      40 square feet each) to meet the minimum MSBA size standard, and that by doing
      this these spaces would be reimbursable. Ms. Martin asked if there was a Committee
      vote to authorize this change. Ms. Harris indicated there was not. Ms. Perry noted
      that this change was completed at the direction of the MSBA, and results in
      additional reimbursable space in the PreK classrooms. Ms. Martin expressed the
      opinion that this decision was not made in a sufficiently transparent manner and
      noted that there have been multiple requests by the Building Committee for a
      graphic presentation of reimbursable versus non-reimbursable spaces. Mr. Weibust
      agreed and noted that this has been on meeting agendas a few times but not
      presented. Mr. Saindon noted that this chart, and the information it contains, was
      presented at the last Building Committee meeting on August 23d and reiterated Ms.
      Perry’s comment that the only new changes to the square footage were directed by
      the MSBA. He noted that the ed plan ultimately has to be approved by DESE and felt

18_0906 GESBC Minutes_Final
Page 2 of 6
                Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                       and the Marblehead School Committee
                                   Meeting Minutes
                                  September 6, 2018
               Marblehead High School – 2 Humphrey Street – 6:00PM

      that in the event DESE agrees that the 2,825sqft over-run of the MSBA template is
      required for the delivery of education then that overage will likely be considered
      reimbursable. He also indicated that a decision to cut any such square footage that is
      over the MSBA guidelines, at this point, was not going to return full value as the
      design is advancing to the degree that rooms simply cannot be carved out cleanly.
      Mr. Weibust and Ms. Martin noted that while this chart is helpful, it does not include
      the explanation of why the space beyond the MSBA template is needed and exactly
      where it is located. Ms. Fox and Mr. Franklin noted that these discussions need to
      occur openly to demonstrate to potential voters that the process is being respected.
      The Committees re-reviewed the three categories which the design is over the
      MSBA guidelines for: Core Academic is 1,220 over due to moving PreK classrooms to
      this category per MSBA request (but this overage will be reimbursable), SPED 2,825
      over with the spaces distributed throughout the building, and Admin & Guidance
      which is 900sqft over for the multi-purpose room (which will not be reimbursable).
      Mr. Weibust and Ms. Martin requested a detailed explanation of where the SPED
      over-run occurred and why it was needed. Ms. Perry provided a detailed summary
      of every SPED room in the design, referring to them in plan and describing their use.
      She explained that she feels the root of the MSBA question is a mis-understanding of
      how the Glover space is used and continued that when that school was built the
      DESE required SPED classrooms to be of the same size as standard classrooms.
      However, Marblehead caps SPED class sizes at +/- 6 students despite the room size
      and for this reason the MSBA likely feels that there is more space at Glover than
      there is. She reiterated that no Glover SPED students will be transferred to this new
      school and that all of it’s spaces are required for the student population from the
      Bell, Coffin and Gerry schools. SPED spaces considered over the MSBA guidelines
      that were discussed include the language based room (capacity 5-6), the SPED
      academic skills room (for 6, 7 and 8, year old students, capacity 6-7), the resource
      room (for children who cannot access extended learning spaces, ELL, and tier 2/tier
      3 students). Ms. Perry also explained that while office space (+/- 120 sqft) for a vice
      principal is not reimbursable the Town has learned that this role is required for
      schools of this size. The function of the OT/PT room, and it’s comparative size to the
      Glover room, was reviewed along with the SPED testing room, which is required to
      give students a place to focus. Two de-escalation rooms were noted, where students
      are brought to for a safe space to calm down. A SPED conference room is included so
      that meetings with parents and students can be conducted in private, away from
      classrooms or hallways. SPED coordinator and secretary offices are included so that
      planning and administration of the program can occur outside of shared and
      classroom space. She noted that if these spaces are not implemented into the new
      building then students will be outsourced to programs outside of Marblehead, which
      she explained was both against the community’s desire to educate all children
      locally and also prohibitively expensive. She added that she feels that upon detailed
      review, DESE and ultimately the MSBA will agree that these spaces are required and

18_0906 GESBC Minutes_Final
Page 3 of 6
                Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                       and the Marblehead School Committee
                                   Meeting Minutes
                                  September 6, 2018
               Marblehead High School – 2 Humphrey Street – 6:00PM

      noted that her role is to advocate for these programs as strongly as possible because
      they directly impact the quality of education that is able to be delivered.
      Ms. Martin asked why there was no longer a STEAM room. Ms. Perry indicated that
      while she wanted a dedicated STEAM room, RDA has noted that the multi-purpose
      room can be designed in as flexible a manner as possible so that it can be used for
      STEAM, music, METCO or other uses and that there is a slightly higher likelihood of
      reimbursement for a multi-purpose room compared to a dedicated STEAM space.
      Mr. Saindon noted to the Committees that if one is thinking of these spaces that are
      over the MSBA guidelines as something to delete, there would not be a financial
      efficiency captured at this point because the plan is sufficiently developed and
      removing a space will not result in a total deduction of its square footage. He
      indicated that if money/budget was the main driver of any concern here, there are
      better ways to save money at this point. He noted that the plan as discussed at the
      last meeting is to submit the updated PSR at 82,331 gross square feet. The
      Committee discussed the sequence of the MSBA and DESE’s review of this
      information and Mr. Wallace stressed that the MSBA process must be followed, that
      these decisions need to be made now as the project is already well into Schematic
      Design and noted that Ms. Perry’s explanation of the SPED spaces was appreciated.
      He explained that how individual Town and School districts manage SPED programs
      is a topic of debate on all MSBA projects but that the Committee must realize that
      simple “deleting” any square footage at this point is not feasible as the process is
      beyond the point where this can cleanly happen in the building plans. Ms. Martin
      and Mr. Weibust noted that while they felt this discussion was overdue, it was
      informative and appreciated and noted that the second step that needs to be taken
      is for the Committee to be able to clearly explain these discussions to voters. Mr.
      Harris noted that Ms. Perry and the school staff have been working on this response
      for the last few weeks and that the final content will be included on the September
      12th updated PSR and sent to the Committees.

   5. OPM/Designer Update(s):
      None.

                                      General PSR Review
      Covered above.

               Updated Construction Estimate and Budget for PSR Submission
      Mr. Saindon noted that he received the updated estimate yesterday from VJ
      presented a high-level analysis the information if contained that will be included in
      the updated PSR. He indicated that due to the numerous Committee decisions since
      the original PSR that the estimate construction total has come down by $1,010,870
      which, when run through various soft cost categories that are values based on a
      percentage of the construction cost, results in a total budget reduction of $1.26m.

18_0906 GESBC Minutes_Final
Page 4 of 6
                Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                       and the Marblehead School Committee
                                   Meeting Minutes
                                  September 6, 2018
               Marblehead High School – 2 Humphrey Street – 6:00PM

      Mr. Weibust asked why the markups category went up, Mr. Saindon explained that
      was due to the decision to use CM-R, which relocates the contractor’s contingency
      into the construction contract. On a non-CM-R project this contingency would still
      be carried, but it would be outside of the construction contracts, as it was before.
      Mr. Zisson asked when an updated analysis showing the individual tax impact to the
      Town will be ready, Mr. Harris noted it is being worked on and should be available
      for presentation at the next meeting.
      Mr. Weibust asked if the response to the MSBA question regarding the transition
      plan is part of the September 12th submission and whether it has been approved by
      the School Committee. Mr. Harris responded that a draft was received by the School
      Committee today and will be included in the submission of the 12th. Mr. Weibust
      asked if it is the same as the last presentation, Mr. Harris indicated he had not yet
      had a chance to review it. Ms. Martin noted that she felt that this discussion, and the
      decisions related to it, have occurred behind closed doors. Ms. Tedford noted that
      this was discussed in detail at the joint meeting on August 23d. Ms. Martin asked if
      the diagrams requested by MSBA were included and available. Ms. Tedford
      responded that they are included and will be made available and added that per
      previous discussion the decision on how to handle this temporary timeframe is the
      responsibility of the School administration and is not under the prevue of either the
      Building or School Committee to approve it as it’s an operational decision. Mr.
      Harris indicated that this topic will be discussed by the School Committee, even
      though approval is not required. Ms. Martin and Ms. Fox noted the importance of
      having the topic discussed in public meetings, so voters could directly hear the
      information and ask questions.
      Ms. Martin made a motion that an alternate plan for student distribution during
      construction be considered by the School Committee and School Administration in
      lieu of what’s to be included in the PSR, acknowledging that the current transition
      plan will be submitted with the updated PSR. She noted that she feels that people
      are not happy with the plan, and that it should not be considered final. The motion
      was seconded by Mr. Weibust. Mr. Pollender commented that this decision is not
      within the scope of this committee and noted that he understands the plan to be a
      work in progress and not set is stone. Ms. Tedford noted that any such building
      process is going to be a challenge and inconvenience some group or groups of
      people and noted that there are already parents who have to deal with 3-4 different
      drop-offs every day. She added that she does not feel that it is an accurate
      characterization that this discussion has occurred behind closed doors. Ms.
      Schaeffner noted that the transition plan is mostly identical to the one that was used
      during the Glover build.
      School Committee members Ms. Tedford, Ms. Gold and Ms. Taylor left the meeting to
      begin an already‐scheduled School Committee meeting at 7:00pm.
      Mr. Lord noted that MSBA is mostly looking for verification that there is space to
      house the students and that modular classrooms are not required. Ms. Perry

18_0906 GESBC Minutes_Final
Page 5 of 6
                Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                       and the Marblehead School Committee
                                   Meeting Minutes
                                  September 6, 2018
               Marblehead High School – 2 Humphrey Street – 6:00PM

      respectfully noted that although this Committee does not have the authority to
      approve or dis-approve the transition plan, she will come to the next Building
      Committee meeting ready to present it and answer questions an added that if any
      committee members have questions they are free to reach out to her. Ms. Martin
      noted that under the understanding that this topic will be an agenda item at the next
      Building Committee meeting, she withdrew the motion on the floor. Mr. Weibust
      asked whether this topic could be covered at another meeting as he will not be able
      to attend on the 27th. Ms. Martin noted that as long as it’s an agenda item at one of
      the upcoming meetings it is acceptable. Mr. Zisson summarized that no matter what
      the final plan is, the most important thing is that it is clearly explained to the Town
      and voters.

            Approve/Vote PSR to the Submitted to the MSBA for September 12th
      Ms. Martin made a motion to approve RDA and Leftfield, on behalf of the Building
      Committee, to submit the revised PSR to the MSBA for review and consideration.
      Items to specifically note include a red-lined education plan, space study at 82,331
      GSF, construction value estimated at $44.37m, total project budget of $56.34m., plan
      approved as L-shaped, flat roof design, displacement air with full air conditioning,
      site modifications made in response to MSBA commentary, utilization of CM-R as the
      preferred method of construction procurement, and a facility and student capacity
      analysis as requested by the MSBA. The motion was seconded by Mr. Pollender and
      approved unanimously by those Building Committee members present, 17-0-4-0.

                             Schematic Design Phase Look Ahead
      None.

   6. MSBA Feasibility Study Process
      None.

   7. New Business
      The next meeting is scheduled for September 27th.

   8. Public Comment
      None.

   9. Adjournment
      A motion to adjourn the Building Committee meeting was made by Mr. Weibust and
      seconded by Mr. Zisson. The motion was approved unanimously by those Building
      Committee members present, 17-0-4-0. The meeting adjourned at 7:14pm.




18_0906 GESBC Minutes_Final
Page 6 of 6
