                                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                             Thursday, November 15, 2018
                                               Marblehead High School

Members Present:                          Meredith Tedford, Jennifer Schaeffner, David Harris
                                          Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor

Also:                                     Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                          Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations
                                          Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance


Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm.

     B. Commendations
        Mr. Harris commended High School Principal Dan Bauer and the Guidance Staff as well as the student recipients
        who received National Merit Scholarships and John and Abigail Adams Scholarships at a breakfast held at the
        Masonic Temple. A thank you went out to Don Doliber as well. Over 65 students were either National Merit
        Recipients or John and Abigail Adams Scholarship recipients.

         Ms. Schaeffner withed the Powder Puff team good luck.

     C. Public Comment

     D. Student Representative
        Dan Howells, Student Rep, Sophomore and Class President
        • The Jefferson Forum Club held their annual Turkey Drive on Wednesday
        • The Powder Puff game will be held Saturday November 17th
        • The Senior Progressive Dinner will be held this Saturday the 17th
        • The Pep Rally will be held on Wednesday, November 21st
        • Today’s Advisory block was to help plan out events for Spirit Week
        • Sing Free or Die Hard Acapella Concert will take place at the HS Auditorium, Tuesday, November 20th
        • Next Wednesday is early release
        • Thursday we will be the annual Thanksgiving Marblehead/Swampscott football game

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
    1. SC Minutes: 10/18/18; 11/1/18
       Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the minutes of 10/18/18 and minutes of 11/1/18 with noted changes below.
       The motion was seconded by Ms. Taylor and the Committee VOTED unanimously in favor, 5-0.

        On the 11/1/18 minutes:
        II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
             1. HS LED update proposal
                at end of the paragraph add:
               Ms. Schaeffner asked about any incentives from Marblehead Light Department and Mr. Lord indicated that
               had been asked and there are no incentives available at this time through any municipal light department.
        VI. Closing Business:
             B. Correspondence
                 last sentence should read:
                Ms. Schaeffner asked for a thank you to go out to Rep. Lori Ehrlich's office and Senator Brendan Creighton's
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                        11/15/18

              office for sending representatives to support MPS at the MSBA meeting.

    2. Weight Room/Fitness Center Contract Approval
       Muffy Pacquette reported that they received four bids and gave the best option. She noted that she is looking for the
       School Committee to approve the contract to Groom. Mr. Lord noted that the work would happen during the winter
       break.

       Ms. Tedford thanked Ms. Pacquette and the Committee for meeting their goal. Ms. Pacquette thanked the Booster’s
       for meeting their target and thanked the Marblehead Friends for their grant. She noted that Leap Fitness has
       offered to allow our athletes to work out for no fee during our construction phase.

       Ms. Schaeffner made motion to award the contract for the Weight Room/Fitness Center to Groom Construction.
       The motion was seconded by Ms. Gold and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        1. October 1 Enrollment Report
           Dr. Perry noted that this report shows the trends of our enrollments. The Charts show the district enrollments by
           grades and schools.

       2. Superintendent and District Goals
          Dr. Perry presented the District Goals:

           Student Learning
           Goal-1
           By April 2019, support increase student achievement by addressing curriculum development, implementation,
           and behavioral outcomes for all students.

           District Improvement
           Goal-2
           By April 2019, improve and expand safety and security measures, and associated training and education for all
           students and staff.

           Goal-3
           By April 2019, facilitate and advance a new elementary building project working in support and collaboration
           with the Building Committee.

           Goal-4
           By April 2019, fund and stabilize special education tuition out budget with operational and budgeting
           efficiencies and revenue drivers.

           Professional Practice
           Goal-5
           By April 2019, continued efforts in transparency, shared information and communication with the community,
           students, and families.

       3. Salary Ranges Administration
          Dr. Perry explained that the salary ranges were provided for all administrators even though this year there will
          only be two principals up for renewal. Ms. Tedford explained that the schools that are used to compare are
          those suggested by DESE due to specific criteria.

           Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the salary ranges provided. The motion was seconded by Ms. Gold and
           the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.




                                                             2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                         11/15/18


       4. ALICE Update
          Ms. Tedford stated that she received a lot of positive feedback from the parent forum on ALICE.
          Dr. Perry noted that all teachers and staff has been trained, parents have attended a forum and the next group to
          train will be the students. She stated that they are currently working on developing a kid friendly curriculum for
          the younger students as well as a unification plan, use of walkie-talkies, etc.

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills
        #17224 $      720.00
        #17243 $      270.00
        #17260 $ 14,773.80
        #17261 $ 18,437.49
        #17262 $340,652.34
        #17263 $ 11,237.00
                $386,090.63

       Ms. Gold made motion to approve the schedule of bills for November 15, 2018 totaling $386,090.63. The motion
       was seconded by Ms. Taylor and the Committee VOTED unanimously in favor, 5-0.

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. BCG Building Update
      Mr. Harris noted that the next Building Committee meeting is scheduled for Monday, November 17th at and will be
      held at the Glover school. He explained that they will examine two estimates that were submitted. The School
      Committee will need to vote and approve this number at the joint December 13th meeting. This will become the
      target number that we’ll be locked into.

       Value Engineering is a working group that consists of 7 or 8 people. They will first revue the items in the design
       that could be value engineered and potentially reduce the cost of the project. Then the working group will bring
       those recommendations forward to the Building Committee meeting on Monday, November 19th . The goal for
       Monday’s meeting is to look at items that will have an impact on the design of the building. Next meetings are:
       Monday, November 19th; Thursday, November 29th and a joint meeting on December 13th, all held at the Glover
       School.

       Ms. Schaeffner noted that a group of parents has formed to begin the advocacy for this initiative and there is a plan
       to try to reach out to every constituency in town with information.

       Ms. Tedford stated that she and Ms. Schaeffner met with the Central PTO for a positive and exciting meeting.

       Mr. Harris made mention that the architect is looking to include any specific aspects that would bring in the
       individuality of each of the three schools into the new building.

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
        Ms. Tedford noted that the Facilities Advisory Group has met three times and that they are working on a
        spreadsheet that contains any or possible issues at each building.

        Ms. Schaeffner stated that she received an email communication from resident Jody Magee. He asked that the
        Committee consider changing the Gerry School playground signage.

        Ms. Taylor stated that as she has a child in the Coffin/Gerry district she has heard concerns regarding parking at
        the Gerry playground as a matter of ‘playground’ conversations. She also noted that at the School Committee
        meeting on April 12th, a parent raised the issue during public comment. She also noted that the town winter
        parking ban hours are 12am-7am. Ms. Taylor also noted that as per meeting minutes available online, the vote that
        occurred regarding Gerry playground parking occurred in Sept 2017 when the building was being used as a school.
        The current situation is different and therefore warrants a review/discussion by the committee.


                                                             3
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                      11/15/18


          Ms. Tedford noted that the Committee was previously presented with this issue and that the Committee voted not
          to take any action on the signage.

          Ms. Taylor made motion to place the Gerry School parking lot usage and signage issue as an agenda item. The
          motion was seconded by Mr. Harris and the Committee VOTED 4 in favor, 1 against.

     B. Correspondence

     C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn was made and the meeting adjourned at 8:45pm.

                                                                           Respectfully submitted,
                                                                           Sarah Gold
                                                                           Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
SC Minutes: 10/18/18; 11/1/18
Weight Room/Fitness Center Contract Approval
October 1 Enrollment Report
Superintendent and District Goals
Salary Ranges Administration
Schedule of Bills




Approved 1/10/19




                                                            4
