                               Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                           Thursday November 21, 2019
                                         Marblehead High School Library

Members Present:                            Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Jennifer Schaeffner, David Harris and
                                            Sarah Fox

Also:                                       William, H. McAlduff Jr.-Interim Superintendent
                                            Larry Buchsbaum, Board of Directors-Samaritan Inc.
                                            Daniel Bauer, High School Principal
                                            Muffy Paquette, Boosters President

Absent:

I.        Initial Business and Public Involvement
          1. Call to Order
               Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7pm.

          2.   Commendations
               There were no commendations to share.

          3.   Public Comment
               There were no public comments.

          4.   Dan Howells, Student Rep, Junior and Class President
                Dan congratulated the participants of the state cross country meet and recognized fellow student
                  Loeden Rodriguez for his win.
                The Girls’ Powderpuff game against Swampscott is scheduled for Saturday
                The annual Thanksgiving Day Football is scheduled for 10am at Piper Field against Swampscott
                Sing Free of Die Hard, an Acapella Concert will be Tuesday at 7pm in the High School
                  Auditorium.
                Next week will be Spirit Week which will consist of sport competitions, a hip hop club dance
                  performance and will wrap up with a cheerleader pep rally.

II.       Consent Agenda and Action Items
          1. Minutes
             a. September 19, 2019
                 Ms. Gold made a motion to accept the minutes form the September 19th meeting and asked is
                 anyone had anything to add.

                   The motion was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor. The motion carries 5-0, all in
                   favor.

          2.   Appointment of Essex North Shore Agricultural and
               Technical School Committee Representative
               The vote to appoint the representative to the school committee was put on hold until further
               information from the town moderator would be provided.

          3.    Approve changes to Policy AC & Policy ACAB
               AC-Non-Discrimination Policy & ACAB-Sexual Harassment Policy
               Per the recommendation of the School Committee’s legal council the Policy Subcommittee
               recommended approving changes to policies AC and ACAB.
               Ms. Schaeffner read a prepared statement which was read when the same policies changes were
            originally approved at the September 19th meeting. It was noted that a process for filing complaints
            against the Superintendent was added.

            Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the policy changes as in packet as of November 18th. The motion
            Carries, 5-0 in favor.

III.   Teaching/Learning Superintendent Report
       1. Mental Health Presentation
          Mr. Larry Buchsbaum, Board of Directors for Samaritan’s Inc and a thirty year resident of Marblehead
          spoke about a free program they offer to help students manage pressure and stress. He discussed the
          reality of lives taken through suicide and how preventative outreach programs can help not only to
          educate the individual suffering but also educate peers about the warning signs of a friend struggling.

            Mr. Buchsbaum mentioned that Samaritan’s Inc was originally founded in England by Emily Dickens.
            He noted that they have 300 volunteers and about 600 total educational workshops in a year. It was
            also shared that in addition to visiting schools that the Samaritan’s also provide hotlines and grief
            counseling.

            The School Committee thanked Mr. Buchsbaum for sharing information about the free program as they
            all agreed that it was not something they had access to growing up and that as Ms. Gold stated, “Not
            talking about it doesn’t help.”

            Ms. Fox inquired at what grade level the program started to which Mr. Buchsbaum shared that if there
            would be an interest to take part as a district that he would be thrilled.

       2.    Marblehead All-Sports Boosters – HS Tennis Courts
             Ms. Gold noted that the committee would be going out of order of the agenda to allow Muffy
             Paquette, the President of the Boosters to present before High School Principal, Mr. Bauer shared his
             enrollment report.

             Ms. Paquette was present to discuss a proposal to repair the high school tennis courts. Varsity Tennis
             Coach, Tracey Ackerman was also present. Ms. Paquette and Ms. Ackerman shared photo handouts of
             the tennis courts to show the need for repair. They shared that the current home court was located at
             Seaside which proposed issues surrounding community play and restroom use since there are no
             restrooms located at Seaside. Ms. Paquette asked the School Committee’s approval to fundraise
             $100,000 to repair the courts. She stated that repairing would be much more affordable than replacing
             them. She also shared that the Boosters would pledge to keep a reserve fund to maintain the $2,000 to
             $3,000 yearly upkeep of the courts. Ms. Paquette mentioned that since the courts could only be
             worked on during the months of May through September that the timing of approval by the committee
             would be important for bidding purposes.

             Ms. Fox thanked Ms. Paquette and Ackerman for presenting and a series of questions occurred.
             The School Committee members had questions regarding: the integrity of the asphalt base, the
             warranty period of the new work to be completed and the condition of the fencing around the courts,

             It was also shared that the best way to get involved would be to contact the Boosters at
             marbleheadboosters.org

             Ms. Schaeffner made a motion to accept fundraising and the repair program of the tennis courts by the
             Boosters. The motion carries, 5-0 all in favor.

       3.   Marblehead High School Class Size Report
            High School Principal, Dan Bauer presented a report looking at class size trends. The report was
            broken down by core subjects and electives. He noted that the electives included a choice for all and
            also included mindfulness and service learning options. Mr. Bauer’s report showed average class sizes
           ranging from around 17 to just under 20 students per class. He stressed that the priority was to make
           sure every student met their graduation requirements.

            The School Committee discussed physical education requirements, partnering with colleges or
            universities for dual enrollment and the potential for any outlyers in specific subject areas with regard
            to large numbers. They also discussed the success of co taught classes with helping to keep the overall
            average class size down.

IV.   Finance Organizational Support
      1. Schedule of Bills
          Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the Schedule of Bills totaling $484,940.91. The motion was
          moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Schaeffner. The motion carries, 5-0 in favor.

           18765 429,204.16
           18769      360.00
           18770 24,723.08
           18772    9,615.50
           18774 21,038.17
            ________________
           Total $484,940.91

V.    School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
      1. Bell, Coffin, Gerry Building Committee Update
         Mr. Harris shared that the contract to hire the company Gilbane as Construction Manager, C.M for the
         new elementary school building project was complete and signed.

           An extensive discussion surrounding the building project’s next steps began. A question pertaining to
           when Gilbane would begin work onsite and the percent completion for design and deliverables was
           discussed. Ms. Schaeffner also inquired about a timeline and/or a calendar that could be shared that
           would show deliverable date submissions. Mr. Harris shared that the calendar is something the
           Building Committee is working on and that once the C.M could confirm some deliverable dates, things
           such as the start of the demolition of the Bell School would be on there. Ms. Schaeffner also
           questioned plans for community outreach prior to demolition. Mr. Harris stated that the committee
           would be making regular updates to their website and that Gilbane will do door to door flyers notifying
           of blasting. He also shared that Gilbane would be hosting a public informational night to explain the
           building process and answers questions the community may have.

           After the discussion it was decided that there would be a building project presentation scheduled for
           6pm the night of the school committee meeting scheduled for December 12th. Mr. Harris would
           confirm the availability of RDA and Leftfield so they could present an update. Ms. Fox shared that the
           presentation would be informative prior to voting on the next deliverables which was scheduled for the
           January 7th Building Committee

           It was also mentioned that the deadline for school naming suggestions would be in early December
           and that the naming of the new school would become a future agenda item.

      2.   Superintendent Search Update
           Ms. Schaeffner and Ms. Fox shared that the sub-committee met last Tuesday to finalize the successful
           candidate profile for Marblehead. Ms. Fox thanked the community for the great information that went
           into helping to build the candidate profile. Ms. Schaeffner shared that the profile would be posted to
           the website.

           It was also stated that the first meeting for the selection committee would be November 25th.
              Superintendent McAlduff congratulated the committee for staying ahead of the deadlines of the
              Superintendent Search and thanked the participants for their involvement with the surveys and focus
              group. He shared that the committee was well prepared to go forward and that he was “optimistic for
              the remainder of the process.”

         3.   MASC/MASS Joint Conference Update
              Ms. Gold shared that herself and Ms. Schaeffner attended the MASC/MASS Joint Conference in
              Hyannis. Some of the seminars attended discussed: Special Education life skills beyond high school, a
              violence prevention program for Sandy Hook Promise, Pathways to Support LGBTQ and a substance
              abuse program hosted by Attorney General, Maura Healey.

              Ms. Schaeffner suggested that money be built into the budget for the new Superintendent and his
              secretary to attend the conference next year and that, “there were lots of great opportunities to meet
              professionals form all areas.”

              After the update, Ms. Fox asked if there could be a monthly update for sub-committee updates.
              She shared that the Facilities Subcommittee recently met and that a member from Sustainable
              Marblehead, Jean would like to be a representative. She also mentioned that Mr. Moretti, the Interim
              Business Manager had many great ideas pertaining to capital improvement planning.

              Superintendent McAlduff confirmed that he would add subcommittee update as a reoccurring future
              agenda item.

VI.      Closing Business
         1. New Business
             None

         2.   Correspondence
              None

         3.   Adjournment
              Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9pm.

                                                                                         Respectfully Submitted,
                                                                                         Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                                         Marblehead School Committee

Meeting Documents:
Policy Updates AC & ACAB
Samaritans Inc. Presentation
High School Class Size Report
Boosters Fundraising Letter
Schedule of Bills $489,940.91

Approved January 23, 2020
