                                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                              Tuesday, January 29, 2019
                                    School Administrative Offices conference room

Members Present:                           Meredith Tedford, Jennifer Schaeffner, David Harris
                                           Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor

Also:                                      Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                           Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                           Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations
                                           Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                           Rachel Bowen, Director of Human Resources
                                           Robert Bellucci, Dir of Student Services and Accountability

Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 8:15AM.

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
    1. School Calendar 2019-2020
       Ms. Tedford asked for a motion to approve the school calendar for the 2019-2020 school year. Ms. Schaeffner
       made motion to approve the 2019-2020 School Year calendar as presented. The motion was seconded by Ms. Gold.
       Discussion followed.
       Mr. Harris noted that if the Distance Learning Days goes well, it could alleviate using days at end of year for snow
       make up days. Ms. Tedford also noted that DLD could also be used at the beginning of the school year if the
       weather is too hot. She heard from many parents and those of High School students seem to like starting before
       Labor Day because their students are already involved in school sports however younger students’ parents prefer an
       after Labor Day start because of vacation schedules. Superintendent Perry suggested that the Committee form a
       calendar sub-committee next year and work with religious groups, the union and parent input to determine the
       2020-2021 calendar depending on how well DLD worked for this past year.

        Ms. Gold asked “If we don’t use DLD days this year, can it be used for the following year as a pilot year?” Ms.
        Tedford noted it could. Ms. Tedford stated that she will address DLD days at the end of the school year if there
        hasn’t been any need to use any of these days.

        Ms. Tedford asked for a vote. The Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor. Motion passed.

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        1. Superintendent’s Narrative for Town Report
           Ms. Tedford explained that this is the narrative that is sent to the Town for the annual Town Report.
           Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the Superintendent’s narrative for the Town Report. The motion was
           seconded by Ms. Taylor and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

VI. Closing Business
    New Business
    Superintendent Perry read a prepared statement and announced her retirement.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                    1/29/2019

     Ms. Tedford read a prepared statement noting she will not run for re-election this year.

     Both statements are attached to the end of the minutes.

     C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn was made and the meeting adjourned at 8:35AM.

                                                                             Respectfully submitted,
                                                                             Sarah Gold
                                                                             Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
School Calendar 2019-2020
Superintendent’s Narrative for Town Report




Approved by SC on 2/7/2019




                                                               2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING   1/29/2019




                              3
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING   1/29/2019




                              4
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING   1/29/2019




                              5
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING   1/29/2019




                              6
