                             Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                              December19, 2019
                                        9 Widger Rd. Conference Room

Members Present:                           Sarah Gold, Jennifer Schaeffner and Sarah Fox

Also:                                      William, H. McAlduff Jr.-Interim Superintendent

Members Absent:                            Meagan Taylor and David Harris


    I.       Call to Order
             Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 10:31am and explained that Mr. Harris would be participating
             by phone. Ms. Gold invited Ms. Schaeffner to update the committee regarding the Superintendent
             Screening Committee activities.

    II.      Announcement of Final Candidates for Position of Superintendent of Marblehead Public Schools.
             Ms. Schaeffner read a prepared statement sharing that there were a total of twenty one applicants for
             the position and that the screening committee was, “very pleased with the qualifications of all of the
             candidates in the applicant pool.” She shared that after preliminary interviews and a vote that took
             place at a December 16th screening committee meeting that the two finalist candidates that would be
             recommended for consideration by the school committee would be:

             John Buckey, Ed.D- Principal, Nantucket High School
             Theresa McGuinness, Ed.D- Assistant Superintendent, Watertown Public Schools

              Ms. Schaeffner commended the screening committee for their dedicated work and then
              opened the floor to public comment.

              Ms. Caity Martin of 29 W Shore Drive stated that it was a pleasure being part of the
              Superintendent Search Screening Committee and stated that the professionalism,
              collaborative approach and diversity of the group exhibited the best of the town.

              Ms. Schaeffner thanked Ms. Martin and the other individual members of the screening
              committee. She also thanked NESDEC for their guidance during the search.

              It was explained that the next steps would involve, scheduling an interview training session
              with NESDEC, scheduling candidate visit days to Marblehead with evening interviews,
              discussing potential visits to the candidates districts and scheduling an executive session to
              put together a draft contract. After discussing January dates for finalist interviews, it was
              decided that the committee would hold the NESDEC Interview Workshop on January 2nd and
              candidate visit days and interviews on Monday the 6th and Tuesday the 7th. It was also
              mentioned that feedback forms would be provided to the community during the candidate
              visit days.

    III.     Adjournment
             Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 10:52am.

                                                                                         Respectfully Submitted,
                                                                                       Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                                       Marblehead School Committee

Meeting Documents:
Prepared Statement
Finalist Candidate Resumes

Approved February 26, 2020
