                                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                            Thursday, September 10, 2019
                                               Marblehead High School

Members Present:                              Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Jennifer Schaeffner,
                                              David Harris, Sarah Fox

Also:                                         William H. McAlduff Jr., Interim Superintendent

Members Absent:

I.    Public Meeting

      1.    Call to Order

            Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:17pm and confirmed with the school committee that the group
            was prepared to invite the first consultant firm into the meeting. Four consultant firms were invited to be
            interviewed for the Marblehead Superintendent Search. Each firm was provided thirty minutes (30) for their
            presentations including a series of questions and answers to follow the individual interviews. The four
            consultant firms that were in attendance for the interview night were:

            a)   New England School Development Council-NESDEC
            b)   Edward J. Collins Center for Public Management
            c)   Hazard, Young, Attea and Associates-HYA
            d)   Massachusetts Association of School Committees-MASC

II.   Interviews of Consultant Groups for the Marblehead Public Schools Superintendent Search

      a) New England School Development Council-NESDEC

           NESDEC was the first consultant firm to be interviewed. The interview began at 7:18pm. Ms. Gold
           introduced representatives from NESDEC, Director, Mr. Art Bettencourt and Senior Consultant of ten (10)
           years, Ms. Carolyn Burke to the school committee and thanked them for coming. Ms. Gold explained the
           time frame allotted and that there would be time nearing the end of their presentation for questions and
           answers.

          Mr. Bettencourt and Ms. Burke gave a brief history of NESDEC. They shared that NESDEC started in
         1982 and that the company headquarters are located in Marlboro, MA. They stated that their mission is to
        “maintain a high-performance status for schools.” It was noted that NESDEC has completed over 600
         successful candidate searches to date currently averaging about 10-20 searches a year.

           Ms. Fox inquired about the renewal of the superintendent contracts to which both Mr. Bettencourt and Ms.
           Burke agreed that a majority of the contracts are renewed due to the up-front work with matching the proper
           candidate to the appropriate district. Ms. Burke shared the importance of customer service which she
           mentioned does not come across during the proposal process and noted NESDEC’s availability throughout
           the search.

           A series of questions and answers regarding public vs. private recruiting, the process of narrowing applicant
           pools and the involvement of screening candidates was all discussed. Mr. Bettencourt noted that Marblehead
           would be an attractive search for qualified applicants due to the districts academic scores, the building of a
           new elementary school and having the support of the Marblehead community.
b) Edward J. Collins Center for Public Management

   The Collins Center was the second consultant firm to be interviewed. Their interview began at 7:52pm. Ms.
   Gold introduced representative, John Brackett from the Collins Center to the school committee and
   mentioned that she was sorry to hear their lead contact, Ms. Anne Wilson was unable to attend due to family
   matters. Ms. Gold thanked John for attending and sent her best to Ms. Wilson. Ms. Gold explained the time
   frame allotted and that there would be time nearing the end of the presentation for questions and answers.

   Mr. Brackett began the interview thanking the school committee for their understanding of Ms. Wilson’s
   absence and stated how unfortunate it was that she could not be present. Mr. Brackett shared that both
   himself and Ms. Wilson have many years of experience in Massachusetts not only as consultants but as
   previous Superintendents as well. Mr. Brackett mentioned his familiarity with the search process from
   both sides and how he understands the importance of confidentiality along with the pressure that coincides
   with the search. Mr. Brackett stressed, “the goal of the Collins Center is for both the candidates and the
   school committee members to feel informed, prepared and comfortable during the search process.”

   Mr. Brackett shared that the Collins Center is made up of small teams that commit to few superintendents
   searches a year. He stated that the Collins Center intentionally focuses on fewer searches a year to be able
   to provide the extra support and attention that the searches require. He also noted that the Collins Center
   began a Superintendents Induction Program last year which provides coaching and mentoring for new
   superintendents.

   A series of questions and answers regarding how focus groups are run, what the Collins Center online
   surveys look like and how risk is reduced by bringing forward qualified candidates was discussed.

  c) Hazard, Young, Attea and Associates-HYA

    HYA was the third consultant firm to be interviewed. The interview began at 8:27pm. Ms. Gold introduced
    representatives from HYA, Jim Jolicouer and Don Macrino to the school committee and thanked them for
    coming. Ms. Gold explained the time frame allotted and that there would be time nearing the end of their
    interview for questions and answers.

    Mr. Jolicouer and Macrino started the HYA interview with a PowerPoint presentation mapping out the
    Superintendent Search Process HYA provides. It was noted that Mr. Jolicouer has been a former
    Superintendent in Leominster, MA with primarily a financial background. Mr. Macrino shared that his
    background has consisted of teaching, school administration and consulting. During the beginning of the
    PowerPoint, it was mentioned that the Lighthouse Mosaic displayed in front of the Village School was
    symbolic to the current search for a permanent superintendent in that it represented a compass guiding a
    future qualified candidate to the direction of the beautiful community of Marblehead.

    It was mentioned that HYA has taken part in many MA and CT superintendent searches within the last few
    years. It was explained that the search process would begin with a planning meeting in which a school
    liaison would be established for future communication. The school committee would then establish their
    use of the HYA online portal system which provides up to date information daily. Mr. Jolicouer and Mr.
    Macrino mentioned the option of virtual conferences to accommodate busy schedules.

    The types of focus groups that would help develop a leadership profile of the next superintendent was
    referenced and a series of questions and answers regarding working with screening committees, the
    interviewing approach and performing thorough background checks was all discussed.

 d) Massachusetts Association of School Committees-MASC

    MASC was the final consultant firm to be interviewed. The interview began at 9:00pm. Ms. Gold
    introduced representatives from MASC, Executive Director, Mr. Glenn Koocher and Ms. Dorothy Presser
    to the school committee and thanked them for coming. Ms. Gold explained the time frame allotted and that
    there would be time nearing the end of their interview for questions and answers.
          Mr. Koocher stated that MASC conducts Superintendents searches solely in Massachusetts and that he has
          been part of sixty (60) candidate searches to date with MASC. Ms. Presser shared that she has been
          consulting for the last five years in central and suburban Massachusetts in regions similar to the town of
          Marblehead.

          Mr. Koocher explained that the search process would consist of focus groups, online surveys, pre-
          screenings and pare down lists. He also mentioned the availability of workshops for new superintendents to
          ensure success in their new role. It was also mentioned that MASC already has a familiarity with
          Marblehead due to their involvement with prior searches within district.

          Mr. Harris inquired what the makeup of one of MASC’s last screening committee was. Mr. Koocher and
          Ms. Presser shard that it consisted of about 11-13 individuals-3 school committee members, faculty, central
          office administration, parents, community members and a police chief. It was stated that each district is
          unique and that no focus group will be the same.

          Ms. Taylor asked how the success of screening committees is ensured. Ms. Presser responded by explaining
          that orientation meetings are scheduled and confidentiality agreements signed and stated that there is
          always administrative support available to screening committees.

          Ms. Schaeffner asked what the attractiveness of our Marblehead district was. Mr. Koocher replied that it is
          well known for its high academic performance with a good reputation in a great community.

          Ms. Gold thanked MASC for coming and mentioned the conclusions of the interviews for the evening.

III.     Closing Business

          a) New Business

               At the conclusion of the interviews at 9:30pm Ms. Gold motioned to discuss voting to affirm the
               amendments to building contracts for Left Field and RDA. After a short group discussion, it was
               unanimously agreed that a meeting would instead be held on Friday, September 13, 2019 to affirm the
               contract amendments so that more time could be provided to review the amendment documents.

          b) Correspondence

          c)    Adjournment

                The meeting was adjourned at 9:53pm.

                                                                                Respectfully Submitted,
                                                                                Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                                Marblehead School Committee

Meeting Documents:
NESDEC Interview Materials
Collins Center Interview Materials
HYA Interview Materials
MASC Interview Materials

Approved 10/22/2019
