                            Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                        Thursday November 7, 2019
                                      Marblehead High School Library

Members Present:                       Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Jennifer Schaeffner, David Harris

Also:                                  William, H. McAlduff Jr.-Interim Superintendent
                                       Evan Katz- Interim Business Manager

Absent:                                Sarah Fox (remotely participated by phone)

I.        Initial Business and Public Involvement
          1. Call to Order
              Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:06pm.She noted that Ms. Fox would be
              participating remotely by phone.

          2. Commendations
             Ms. Gold congratulated the Cross Country teams at both the Veterans Middle Schools and
             The High school for their Northeastern Conference wins (NEC) wins. She shared that the
             Veterans Boys Cross Country team finished in 1st place overall with six (6) wins and zero
              losses and mentioned that the Girls Cross Country team finished 3rd overall with five (5)
              wins and 1(one) loss. Ms. Gold also recognized 8th grade division champions, Lydia Bailey
              and Graham Kramer and the high school division champion, Logan Rodriguez. She also
              noted that Nate May, Peter Clifford and Will Lamb all won NEC All Star recognition status
              and congratulated both coaches, Mr. Mcintosh and Heenan.

          3. Public Comment
             None

          4. Student representative – Dan Howells
              Mr. Howells shared that he recently attended a student focus group for the superintendent
                search and mentioned that he enjoyed being part of it. He noted that the characteristics
                that students were looking for in a superintendent consisted of: a) Someone who is
                understanding of mental health concerns, b) Supports the LGBTQ student population,
                and c) Promotes inclusion and diversity
              National French week was this past week. Students could participate in activities during
                their study halls and win prizes.
              The Boys Soccer team had a successful playoff win Sunday the 3rd against greater
                Lowell and their next game will be Saturday the 9th against Belmont.
              The Cross Country state meet will also be Saturday the 9th.
              The Football team will have an away game tomorrow, Friday 11/8 against Melrose
              Next Friday and Saturday (November 15th and 16th) will be the Peter and Wendy Play at
                the Middle school both beginning at 7pm
              Ms. Taylor thanked Mr. Howells and the high school students for participating in the
                focus groups and mentioned that the point of view of the students is important for the
                different perspective they offer.
II.    Consent Agenda and Action Items
       1. Minutes
          a. 9/13/19, 10/3/19
             Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the minutes from September 13, 2019 and October 3,
             2019.Ms. Taylor accepted the motion and it was seconded by Ms. Schaeffner. The
             motion carries, all in favor 5-0.

III.   Teaching/Learning Superintendent Report
       1. Veterans Middle School Class Size Report
          The Principal of Veterans Middle School, Mr. Fox shared a report on current class sizes.
          He noted that the average number of students per class had remained roughly the same
          (around 22-24 per class) compared to the previous nine (9) years of data. He did note that due
          to a larger than normal 7th grade class, the number averages had increased a bit to reflect
          closer to 25 students per class in some of the core curriculum subjects such as English and
          Social Studies. Mr. Fox stated that the average number of new students they usually received
          per year was around eighteen (18) and that this year they received fifty one total (45 7th
          graders alone) and that the increase also reflected students returning from other Schools for
          example.

           When asked by Ms. Schaeffner if the same number of teachers has remained the same over
           the last five to six year in relation to the number of students, Mr. Fox shared that the number
           of teachers had actually gone down. He mentioned that hiring dually certified teachers has
           allowed the school to add additional core classes so that the average number of students in
           each class could be brought down.

       2. October 1st Enrollment Report
          Superintendent McAlduff presented an enrollment report reflective of October 1st enrollment
          data and stated that the report should be considered an introduction to the FY21 budget
          development process. He informed the committee that the numbers in the report would
          inform administration while developing the future budget looking closely at staffing needs.
          He also mentioned the second part of the report reflected enrollment numbers for the previous
          seven (7) years. Superintendent McAlduff noted that the numbers would be important to
          reference due to determining the districts eligibility for Chapter 78 and Entitlement Grants.
          He also shared that the O.O.D (out of district) students which accounted for about forty seven
          (47) students were not included in the report.

           He informed the committee that the report was based on projections using the Survival
           Cohort Methodology going out ten (10) years in which the methodology looked at the
           differences in previous years grades and the current years incoming grade. It was shared that
           by using the methodology to look at the 2021 school year, projections would show an
           enrollment of 2,847 students (a drop of over 100) students. It was also noted that the report
           does not account for things such as the number of building permits the town has pulled which
           could represent an increase in family size and that obtaining census date from the town could
           provide that type of useful information. Superintendent McAlduff also shared that he was
           impressed with the numbers of students from 8th grade returning from another school to
           attend Marblehead High School.

           When asked by Ms. Fox if the Superintendent considered the ten (10) year projections that
           the state completed for the elementary school building project, the superintendent noted that
           he had not and that he would look at the report to compare the numbers of the one hundred
           (100) student difference for grades Kindergarten through 3rd grade.
         The school committee was also informed that the New England School Development Council
         (NESDEC) would be providing a more detailed report sometime in December that would
         look more closely at future enrollment projections.

          Ms. Taylor thanked the Superintendent for the useful information.

IV.   Finance Organizational Support
      1. Schedule of Bills
          Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $1,058,005. The motion
          was accepted by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Mr. Harris. The motion passes, 5-0 in favor

          #18672    $664.40
          #18693 $421,237.38
          #18709 $223,101.00
          #18719 $ 66,313,84
          #18720 $319,707.17
          #18721 $ 1,720.88
          #18722 $ 25,260.33
          ________________
          Total $1,058,005.00

          When Ms. Gold inquired if the school committee had any questions, Ms. Schaeffner
          mentioned looking for an “add to services” bill for around $5,700 from RDA to which Ms.
          Gold confirmed was not in the schedule.

      2. FY20 Budget Update
         a. Consolidated Budget Review
            Superintendent McAlduff presented a FY20 budget update stating that the point of the
            update was to bring the salaries update discussed at the October 22nd meeting and the
            expenditures piece of the budget together. He shared the next steps in the budget process
            would be to take the transfer line items that the school committee normally votes to
            transfer and update them with the town’s Softright system so that adjustments could be
            accounted for.

              Ms. Schaeffner inquired if the process would clear up budget transfers going forward and
              whether or not the process would set up the district for where they would need to be with
              the budget for FY21. The Superintendent clarified that there should not need to
              be many more future transfers but to account for some and that there would still need to
              be a number of line item adjustments pertaining to the specific naming of function codes
              to make future reporting more easy.

              When discussing the key changes in the Special Education O.O.D tuition and
              transportation expenditures, Superintendent McAlduff recognized the work of the
              Director of Student Services, Eric Oxford and his Administrative Assistant, Peg for
              positive changes in revenue sources from additional funding from Circuit Breaker and
              Federal Government Grants. It was noted that O.O.D tuition costs change quickly and
              would be monitored closely.

              Superintendent McAlduff also stated that he would be sharing ideas at a future school
              committee meeting regarding ways to reduce reliance on outside transportation providers
              when accounting for FY21 budgeting.
            After the presentation Ms. Gold clarified that Superintendent McAlduff was
            recommending a motion to, “Use FY20 actual numbers to make changes to the Softright
            budget document to bring it into alignment.” To which Mr. Harris added, “to allow
            Town Finance Director, Ms. Nieto and the town to make that adjustment.”

            Ms. Schaeffner thought the motion should include language to reference the change from
            the Interim Superintendent FY20 budget to be charged to FY20 actual line budget.

            Superintendent McAlduff recommended the motion to be, “Move to ask the Town
            Finance Director to input into the Softright system the numbers that appear in the FY20
            actual column versus the FY20 Superintendent column.”

            The motion was moved by Mr. Harris and Seconded by Ms. Taylor. The motion carried,
            5-0 all in favor.

V.   School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
     1. Bell/Coffin/Gerry Building Committee Update
        Mr. Harris shared that there would be a joint meeting with the school committee scheduled
        for Thursday November 14th.

        Mr. Harris also shared that the Gilbane Company had accepted the Construction Manager
        Opening and that the Owner’s Project Manager would be moving forward with finalizing the
        contract to which the Building Subcommittee would negotiate with Gilbane. He also shared
        that the architect was working on the first pass of the design themes for the new school which
        they would present at the meeting on the 14th. Ms. Schaeffner inquired whether the design
        decision would be decided by the subcommittee to which Mr. Harris replied that initially they
        would and then present to the school committee.

        It was shared that the Architect submitted Design and Development documents and a full set
        of design documents would be delivered to the administration building to which Mr.
        McAlduff shared would be put on display. When Ms. Schaeffner asked when the next design
        deliverable was, Mr. Harris confirmed that it was the first week in Jan when the design and
        deliverables would go to the Massachusetts State Building Authority ( MSBA) with
        Superintendent McAlduff mentioning that the submissions are at about sixty (60%) percent.

        Ms. Schaeffner clarified if there would be a timeline regarding the information the building
        committee would be receiving moving forward to which Mr. Harris confirmed that there
        would be and that the particular process was first discussed last month regarding a look ahead
        projected out through July.

        a. Affirm Change to Architect’s Contract
           Superintendent McAlduff explained that Raymond Design and Associates (RDA)
           Amendment #4 and Budget Revision # 6 was related to a vote surrounding the use of the
           new elementary school gymnasium that took place at the October 10th building committee
           meeting. He further explained that the architectural contract changes pertained to an
           independent estimate that was completed for looking at the cost associated with
           potentially expanding the gymnasium of the new elementary school by five hundred
           (500) square feet.
 Superintendent McAlduff shared that the Town CEO who would like the school
 committee’s affirmation of the building committee’s decision before approving the
 changes to the contract.

 Ms.Gold motioned to affirm the building committee’s vote to approve RDA’s
 Amendment # 4 and building Revision # 6 in the amount of $5,700. The vote was moved
 by Mr. Harris and seconded by Ms. Taylor.

 Ms. Fox and Ms. Schaeffner both shared their concerns regarding the contract
 amendment and budget revision and a conversation regarding understanding the process
 for “add to scope” services occurred. Ms. Schaeffner questioned if the amendments were
 negotiable to which it was confirmed that they were not due to the building committee
 having already voted in favor of the changes. She also stated she was not comfortable
 with the revision portion. Ms. Fox shared that she felt that the original gymnasium
 estimate could have been more accurate to begin with. Mr. Harris shared that in the event
 a future design suggestion came up that it would go back to the full building committee
 first to understand how the changes could affect the building budget.

Ms. Schaeffner made a motion to amend the original motion to include only the
reimbursable expenses of the cost consultant in both amendment 4 and amendment 6.

Ms. Taylor clarified whether the amended motion would change the dollar value being
paid to which Ms. Schaeffner confirmed that it would make the dollar value $2, 750.

The amended motion was voted to reflect:

Ms. Schaeffner-Yes
Ms. Taylor-No
Ms. Gold-No
Ms. Fox-Yes
Mr. Harris-No

The amended motion does not carry, 3-0.

The school committee then voted on the original motion which was to affirm the building
committee’s vote to approve RDA’s Amendment # 4 and Building Revision # 6 in the
amount of $5,700. The vote was originally moved by Mr. Harris and seconded by Ms.
Taylor. The original motion was voted to reflect:

Ms. Schaeffner-No
Ms. Taylor-Yes
Ms. Gold-Yes
Ms. Fox-No
Mr. Harris-Yes

The motion carries, 3-2 in favor.
   b. Surplus Items from the Bell School
      Superintendent McAlduff shared that both Upper and Lower Bell Schools had been
      emptied out over the summer. He explained that thirty four hundred (3400) pieces of
      instructional materials were left behind and that they would be picked up through a
      vendor that Magic Hat has worked with. Superintendent McAlduff also shared that five
      (5) exterior memorial benches that had previously donated and a picnic table would be
      salvaged by the construction managers and that the mosaic reception desk would be
      salvaged and utilized in the new building. When asked by Mr. Schaeffner if the Organic
      Garden had been salvageable, the Superintendent confirmed that it had been transplanted
      to Eveleth. Ms. Gold mentioned that anyone with questions or concerns should refer them
      to Eveleth Principal, Donna Zaeske.

       Both Ms. Fox and the Superintendent thanked Principal Zaeske for the fantastic job she
       has done with clearing out the Bell Schools and the Superintendent stated, “ she deserves
       a lot of credit.”

       Ms. Gold made a motion to declare the approximately 3400 reading and instructional
       materials that remain at the Bell School as surplus to which was moved by Mr. Harris and
       seconded by Ms. Taylor.

       Ms. Schaeffner-Yes
       Ms. Taylor-Yes
       Ms. Gold-Yes
       Ms. Fox-Yes
       Mr. Harris-Yes

       The motion carries, 5-0 in favor.

   c. Building Project Naming Update
      Ms. Schaeffner shared that naming boxes that were decorated by both the Eveleth and
      Coffin Students have been placed around town. She stated that all of the schools have a
      box and there was one put in the upstairs of the Town Administration Building, one at the
      National Grand Bank and coffee shops. Ms. Schaeffner explained that she would pick up
      the boxes around December 2, and that anyone who would like to submit suggestions
      could also do so by emailing schoolname@marbleheadschools.org. A conversation
      regarding when the school committee would decide to deliberate on the suggestions
      occurred and although no formal vote was taken, it was decided that deliberation would
      happen after the holidays in the New Year.

2. Superintendent Search Update
   a. Finalize the Membership of the Superintendent Screening Committee
      Ms. Schaeffner informed the school committee that the NESDEC Focus Groups had a
      great turnout and shared that social emotional learning side was an important mention
      amongst all focus groups.

       Ms. Schaeffner also mentioned that the link on the school website to the Superintendent
       Survey would be taken down on Friday November 8th. She also shared the information
       from both the focus groups and the survey would be what would help to build the
       candidate profile that the school committee would be scheduled to discuss on November
       19th.
       Mr. Harris shared that he would not be able to attend on the 19th but that he could call in
       or speak with NESDEC. Harris –away at vacation could call in or speak with NESDEC
       reps

       Ms.Schaeffner shared that the first screening committee meeting would be November 25th
       And that they would next be selecting names out of a “hat” to complete the screening
       committee. Ms. Schaeffner named all current nine (9) members of the screening
       committee and shared that two 2 community members and two parents would be selected.
       One community member would be a former educator and one parent would represent the
       Kindergarten through sixth grade level and the other would represent the seventh through
       twelfth grade level.

       The current members named were:

       Jason Silva-Town Administrator
       Jackie Belf-Becker-Chair, Board of Selectmen
       Dan Bauer-Principal, Marblehead High School
       Eric Oxford-Director of Student Services
       Tawny Callaghan-Teacher
       Rachel Leavitt-Teacher
       Brian Birke-SEPAC
       Sarah Fox-School Committee
       Jenn Schaeffner-School Committee

        Superintendent McAlduff and his Administrative Assistant, Lisa Dimier selected name s
        from the bag provided. The two community members that were selected were:
        Libby Moore-Former Educator
        Joan Rosenthal

        The two parents that were selected were:
        Katie Martin-Grades K-6th
        Deborah Whitney-Grades 7th-12th

3. Delegate Assignment for MASC Conference “11/8/19”
   Ms.Gold shared that both herself and Ms. Schaeffner would be attending the MASC
   conference the following day in Hyannis. Ms.Schaeffner mentioned that she had been
   nominated as VICE Chair for the Division One section and asked the school committee for
   their vote to nominate her as a delegate.

   Ms.Gold motioned to approve Ms. Schaeffner to be the delegate for the Marblehead Public
   Schools at the Massachusetts School Committee’s Conference November 8th, 2019. The
   motion was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor.

   The motion was then amended by Ms. Gold to state that Jenn be the official delegate and
   herself (Sarah Gold be the alternate). Ms. Fox moved the motion and it was seconded by Ms.
   Taylor.

   The roll call vote for the amended motion was:
   Ms. Schaeffner-Yes
   Ms. Taylor-Yes
   Ms. Fox-Yes
             Ms. Gold-Yes
             Mr. Harris-Yes

             The roll call vote for the amended motion was the same. Both motions carry, 5-0 in favor

VI.     Closing Business
        1. New Business
           Due to scheduling conflicts, the meeting that was scheduled for December 5th would be
           rescheduled to another time. The tentative dates that were held were December 17th and 19th.

             Ms. Fox confirmed with the school committee members that they could participate in the
             Christmas walk to which Ms. Gold stated she would follow-up on.

        2. Correspondence

        3. Adjournment
           Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:43pm

             A roll call vote was taken to adjourn
             Ms. Schaeffner-Yes
             Ms. Taylor-Yes
             Ms. Gold-Yes
             Ms. Fox-Yes
             Mr. Harris-Yes

             The motion to adjourn carries, 5-0 all in favor.

                                                                               Respectfully Submitted,
                                                                               Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                               Marblehead School Committee

Meeting Documents:
Vets Class Size Report
October 1st Enrollment
Schedule of Bills
FY20 Budget Review
Special Ed Out of District and Transportation Costs
Architect’s Contract Changes
Gerry School Meeting Minutes 10.25.19
Superintendent Screening Search Committee Membership
Surplus Items From Bell School

Approved December 12, 2019
