                              Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                           Friday September 19, 2019
                                        Marblehead High School Library



Members Present:                            Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Jennifer Schaeffner, David Harris
                                            and Sarah Fox

Also:

Absent:                                     William, H. McAlduff Jr.-Interim Superintendent

I.        Public Meeting
          a. Call to Order
             Ms. Gold calls the meeting to order at 7:00pm.

II.       Initial Business and Public Involvement
          1. Commendations
          2. Public Comment
          3. Dan Howells, Student Rep, Junior and Class President
                It was shared that the Distractology Program simulation had been set-up to share with students the
                   negative effects of distracted driving. Mr. Howells shared that those students who visited during
                   their study hall periods found it to be informative.
                It was shared that the ALICE lock down training occurred earlier that day, (September, 19th). Mr.
                   Howells mentioned that the high school students have an understanding of the training but that he
                   feels the training would become clearer once they will reach the evacuation portion of the training.
                The PSAT’s for sophomores and juniors are scheduled for 10/19/19 and sign-ups are currently
                   being held.
                The first home football game is scheduled, Friday September 20th. Mr. Howells noted that students
                   have been reminded of the rules so that games can be safe and represent Marblehead positively.
                Mr. Harris mentioned beating North Andover in their first away game win to which Marblehead
                   ended North Andover’s thirteen (13) game winning streak. He also commended the sophomore
                   quarter who back stepped up to fill in for the injured starting quarter back.

III.      Finance Organizational Support
          1. Schedule of Bills
              Ms. Gold apologized to the school committee for leaving the schedule of bills out of the school
              committee packet. She mentioned to the committee that she would understand if members wanted to
              abstain from voting.

              Mr. Harris shared that he was comfortable voting on the schedule since three other school committee
              members had reviewed and signed the schedule.

              Ms. Fox asked if the Building Committee’s invoices would be included in the schedule of bills
              moving forward to which Ms. Gold replied that she believed they would.

              Ms. Gold motioned for the committee to accept the schedule of bills totaling $211,439.85. The motion
              was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor. The motion carries, 5-0 in favor.
           Ms. Gold Mentioned that since Superintendent McAlduff was not present that they would move on to
           the communication and discussion items.

           Ms. Schaeffner inquired if the committee knew when they would receive an update regarding FY20
           reporting. She asked if it would be regular reporting or if that would not take place until the new
           contracted Director of Business and Finance, Ms. Cresta started in December.

           A conversation regarding FY20 reporting began and Ms. Gold shared that the new Interim Business
           Manager, Mr. Moretti who began on September 7th had been tasked with a few very specific things
           such as confirming the district FTE’s and should expect some reporting while Mr. Moretti remained in
           district. Ms. Gold mentioned that she would follow up with Superintendent McAlduff regarding a plan
           for FY20 reporting.

IV.   School Committee Communication and/or Discussion
      1. MHS Advisory Program Stipend
         High School Principal, Mr. Bauer was present to discuss the school committee’s approval of two
         stipends in the amount of $1,650 each for a High School Advisory Program. The stipends would cover
         the ten (10) months of the school year totaling about fifty (50) hours per year.

           Mr. Bauer noted that the goal of the program would be for the stipend advisors to make an adult
           connection with every student to help support the social emotional needs of the students. He shared
           that the Advisory Program would be designed so that the advisor would follow the students through
           their four year at Marblehead high School.

           A series of questions and answers regarding lesson plans, tracking the success of the program and
           long-term funding was all discussed. When asked by Ms.Schaeffner how the stipend positions would
           be funded, it was shared that the funding would come from the Educatius Revolving fund.

           Ms. Gold asked for a motion to approve the two stipends in the amount of $1,650 each to fund the
           Marblehead advisory stipends. It was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox. The motion
           carries, 5-0

      2.   Approval of Policy
           Ms. Schaeffner read a memo introducing the revisions to existing Title IX and Non-Discrimination
           policies. It stated that the policies were drafted by the district’s counsel to make sure the policies have
           the clarity and specificity required by law.
           a. Policy AC+ AC-R
                It was mentioned that policy AC represented the district’s Non-Discrimination policy, and that
                AC-R was a new policy focusing on Non-Discrimination and Harassment Prevention.
           b. Policy ACAB
                It was also shared that policy ACAB was the district’s Sexual Harassment policy.

               Ms. Gold made a motion to approve policies AC, AC-R and ACAB. The motion was moved by
               Ms. Schaeffner and seconded by Ms. Taylor. The motion carries, 5-0.

               Ms. Taylor noted that MASC was in the process of revising their policies as well.

               Ms. Fox inquired if the committee was required to read the policies before they changed them and
               voted on the change to which the consensus was, no.
3.   Search Consultant Decision
     Ms. Gold shared that there was an open meeting held last Tuesday September 10th to interview the four
     search firms who submitted proposals to assist with the Superintendent Search. She shared that out of
     the four firms including the Collins Center, HYA, MASC, NESDEC that the Collins Center had to
     unfortunately withdraw their proposal application.

     Ms. Schaeffner clarified if the committee would be making a motion or having a discussion first to
     which Ms. Gold stated that she felt a discussion would be best.

     Mr. Harris asked if members were assigned to complete reference checks with each firm. It was shared
     that Ms. Gold reached out to Hingham regarding NESDEC, Ms. Fox reached out to an additional
     twelve (12) references for NESDEC to which she did not speak to all and Ms.Schaeffner spoke to four
     (4) references for MASC.

     After each committee member shared their reference check updates, Mr. Harris thanked Ms. Fox and
     Ms. Schaeffner for all the calls they made. He also inquired if the committee thought HYA should be
     removed from consideration to which the consensus remained that there was no need to create a
     motion to eliminate HYA since everyone was in agreement to move forward with a decision.

     After a discussion, it was unanimously decided that the committee was interested in both MASC and
     NESDEC. After further discussion it was decided that working with NESDEC would be the best fit for
     the Marblehead Public Schools Superintendent Search. It was also mentioned by multiple committee
     members that since MASC was involved with the recent Interim Superintendent Search, that it would
     be to the benefit of the district to utilize what resources MASC may still have readily available to the
     committee.

     Ms. Gold made a motion to enter into a contract with NESDEC pending successful contract negations
     for the Superintendent Search for Marblehead Public Schools. The motion was accepted by Ms.
     Schaeffner and seconded by Ms. Taylor. The motion carries, 5-0.

4.   Discussion of Community Communication
     Ms. Gold opened the conversation sharing that a quote from an article written in a Maine newspaper
     regarding the hiring of a former employee had recently been brought to her attention. She shared that
     her intention was to reach out to the press that published the article to comment and thought that it
     would be best to discuss her intentions with the school committee prior to reaching out to the Maine
     publication. Ms. Gold read a prepared statement.

     Ms. Schaeffner shared that she did not think it was necessary to release a statement. Ms. Fox stated,
     “My only concern with seeking them out to give a statement is potentially dipping our toe into a pond
     we don’t want to get into and opening ourselves up for issues.” After a discussion, no vote was taken,
     however, it was unanimously decided that it was not necessary to respond to the published quote and to
     focus on moving the school district towards a positive direction, focusing on the future and not the
     past.

     A discussion regarding how to better communicate with the community occurred. Ideas about
     newsletters, open forums and office hours were discussed.

     Ms. Taylor mentioned being as proactive and efficient as possible.
     Mr. Harris mentioned the successful tweeting of Marblehead High School Principal, Mr. Bauer.

     Ms. Fox mentioned that MASC may be able to offer some good suggestions.

     Ms. Schaeffner mentioned the importance of more structure with sub-committee reporting.

     Ms. Gold also referenced community engagement and how she would like the school committee to
     walk in the holiday parade this year to which everyone decided was a great idea.

5.   Building Project Update
     a. Report on Progress
         Mr. Harris shared an update regarding the new elementary building project. Mr. Harris shared that
         the building committee discussed a communication plan regarding the public at a recent meeting.
         He shared the importance of proper communications more specifically with property abutters that
         would be more directly impacted by the noise and deliveries. Regular website updates, newsletters
         and an informative Facebook page was all discussed.

          It was also shared that the building committee was able view a 3-d walk through of the new school
          last week. Mr. Harris shared that it was exciting to visualize the way hallways, entryways and
          lighting would all look.

          Mr. Harris mentioned that the sub-committee to choose the construction manager met earlier that
          evening to discuss the requests for qualifications (RFQ’s) that were submitted. He noted that the
          six (6) companies that submitted their RFQ’s were:
          Agostini
          Bond Brothers
          Gilbane
          Shawmut Construction
          Walsh
          Dimio

          Mr. Harris noted that once all qualified candidates had been confirmed the requests for proposals
          (RFQ’s) would go out and remain open for two weeks. The process would then be to hold open
          interviews and once the building committee selected a candidate, bring that candidate to the school
          committee to affirm the vote. It was noted that the timeline would be the end of October.

          Ms. Schaeffner inquired if the new construction manager would be part of the design and
          development process to which Ms. Fox and Mr. Harris agreed that to their understanding of the
          timeline, they would unfortunately not be able to provide much input.

     b.   Discussion on Naming the New School
          Ms.Schaeffner mentioned that a discussion regarding the process of naming the new elementary
          school should be further discussed.

          Ms. Fox noted that the community should be involved and the school committee should decide
          what that would look like.
         Mr. Harris did clarify that it has been confirmed that the school committee has the final say in
         naming of the new elementary school but that all considerations would be accepted.

         Ms. Taylor mentioned the variety of ways to include the community reminding the committee of
         the importance of remaining aware of community members that do not have access to technology
         and mentioned the potential of a naming sub-committee.

         Ms. Gold stated that the first step would be to put together a way to receive ideas and that reaching
         out to the technology department regarding setting up an email for submittals would be a good
         place to start.

         After a discussion, it was decided that the email address would be a productive starting point and
         that a sub-committee may not be necessary. It was also decided that Ms. Schaeffner would be in
         charge of placing “name the school” boxes around town.

         Ms. Gold suggested that most submissions should be in by Thanksgiving.

6.   Dates for Joint BOS Meeting (Board of Selectmen)
     Ms. Gold informed the school committee that there would be a joint meeting with the Board of
     Selectmen scheduled for next Thursday September 26 th at 7:30pm at the High School. She shared that
     the meeting was being held to discuss an article that had been voted on at a previous town meeting
     discussing ways in which the town and schools could work together to coordinate with each other to
     best use funds throughout the town.

7.   MASC Joint Conference
     Ms. Gold mentioned that the MASC/MASS Joint Conference is scheduled for November in Hyannis
     and that she would like to be able to send at least two committee members. Ms. Taylor confirmed the
     dates would be November 6th-9th.

     Ms. Schaeffner and Ms. Fox expressed interest in attending depending upon the days that would be
     coordinated to attend.

     Ms. Gold stated that she would add discussing the conference further as an agenda item at another
     upcoming meeting to confirm plans for the attendees.

Closing Business
1. New Business
    Ms. Fox shared that Sustainable Marblehead had reached out to both herself and Mr. Harris sharing a
    document about initiatives they would like Marblehead Public Schools to take up. It was decided that
    Ms. Fox would reach out to Sustainable Marblehead about scheduling a time to meet with the Building
    Committee and/or the School Committee.

     It was also decided that Ms. Fox would share the information with the Superintendent for consideration
     to present at a future school committee meeting.

     Ms. Gold also stated that per Superintendent McAlduff’s recommendation that the committee should
     confirm a potential date to begin the orientation process for the Superintendent Search with NESDEC.
               After confirming meeting calendars, it was decided that Wednesday, October 2 nd at 7pm would be best
               for all for scheduling. Ms. Gold would reach out to NESDEC to confirm the date, plan for the evening
               and time frame allotted for the orientation.

          2.   Correspondence (MTRS) (NEASC)
               Ms. Gold shared that a letter from NEASC addressed to High School Principal, Mr. Bauer informed
               the high school that the Committee on Public Secondary Schools voted to accept the high school’s five
               (5) year progress report and accepted its accreditation.

               Ms. Gold also shared that the Massachusetts Teachers Retirement System alerted Marblehead Public
               Schools that they had been selected as one of the schools who would be audited regarding their
               employee census data this year.
          3.   Adjournment
               Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:24pm




                                                                                            Respectfully Submitted,
                                                                                            Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                                            Marblehead School Committee




Meeting Documents:
Schedule of bills totaling $211, 439.85
Advisory Program Stipend Materials
Policy Revisions AC and ACAB
New Policy AC-R
Superintendent Search Consultant Decision Materials
Community Engagement Discussion Memo
Massachusetts Teachers Retirement System, MTRS audit letter
New England Association of Schools and Colleges, NEASC approval accreditation letter


Approved 11.21.19
