                    Record of the Marblehead School Committee Budget and Transition Workshop
                                                February 25, 2019
                                             Marblehead High School

Members Present:                           Meredith Tedford, Jennifer Schaeffner, David Harris
                                           Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor
Also:
Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and made the following statement:
        Statement RE: Superintendent Dr. Maryann Perry
        Recognizing our responsibility and the current budget challenges, the School Committee has accepted the
        Superintendent’s resignation effective June 30, 2019. The Superintendent’s last day in the district will be late May
        as the School Committee has required that she use her accrued vacation prior to the effective day of her resignation
        otherwise, as required by law, the Committee would have had to pay out that accrued vacation.
        The School Committee has begun discussing the process of recruiting and hiring a replacement, and may have an
        interim in place prior to the current Superintendent’s last day in the District in order to facilitate a smooth
        transition for our faculty, staff and students. As the District and the current Superintendent will be working on the
        transition, we have excused her from school committee and school building committee meetings. Other
        administrators will be in attendance at these meetings on an as-needed basis. This plan allows the School
        Committee to maintain continuity in the District, and is both fiscally responsible and educationally appropriate.

         Statement RE: Additional Vacancies
         The School Committee has accepted the resignation of our Business Manager, Amanda Maniaci effective as of this
         Thursday, February 28. We will be working with the Town Administrator and Town Finance Director on any time
         sensitive issues, including accounts payable and payroll, until such time as we have a filled the vacancy. We
         anticipate posting for the position, at least as an interim, as soon as possible.

         The School Committee has acknowledged the retirement of Bob Bellucci, Director of Student Services and
         Accountability as of June 30, 2019. We posted for an interim internal position and will be interviewing two
         candidates.

         Rachel Bowen, our Director of Human Resources will be leaving the District as of March 8th. Until then, Rachel
         will be managing any and all appropriate postings, both interim and otherwise, for open administrative positions
         pending continued discussions by the School Committee.

         The School Committee will keep the community aware of any decisions regarding next steps in our hiring
         processes at our publicly posted meetings.


Motion for Executive Session
        Ms. Tedford called for a motion and vote to meet in executive session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws
        chapter 30A, section 21(a) for the following purpose:
             • Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the Marblehead Education
                 Association Unit A regarding a request for additional sick leave days for one employee.

         Ms. Schaeffner made motion to meet in executive session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A,
         section 21(a) for the following purpose: Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with
         the Marblehead Education Association Unit A regarding a request for additional sick leave days for one employee.
         The motion was seconded by Ms. Taylor and the Committee VOTED on a roll call vote: Ms. Taylor-yes; Ms.
         Gold-yes; Mr. Harris-yes; Ms. Schaeffner-yes; Ms. Tedford-yes; 5-0 in favor.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                          2/25/19

        Ms. Tedford noted that the motion passes. The Committee will now be meeting in executive session pursuant to
        Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A, section 21(a) for purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to
        collective bargaining with the Marblehead Education Association Unit A regarding a request for additional sick
        leave days for one employee. The Committee will be reconvening in open session.

II. Executive Session Agenda
    Meeting to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the Marblehead Education Association
    Unit A regarding a request for additional sick leave days for one employee.

Return to Open Session 7:15PM

    Ms. Tedford noted that since the M.A.S.C. representative, Dorothy Presser, was currently in attendance and to be
    thoughtful of her time, we would take this section of the agenda next.

    Administration Transition Workshop with Dorothy Presser from MASC
    M.A.S.C. Representative - Dorothy Presser
    Ms. Presser presented the Committee with two scenarios: one with a spring search and the other with an interim and a
    longer search. She explained that even if the Committee agreed to do a spring search, an interim would still need to be
    in place as the search would more than likely not be completed until late fall. An important note would be when a
    schedule is drafted for a search, that those interested are informed that they must commit to the dates on the schedule.
    She also noted that in considering an interim, the Committee should consider retired superintendents. This process
    could be advertised as soon as the committee is ready and someone could be in place as soon as six weeks. She noted
    that M.A.S.C. keeps a list of
    retired superintendents who have shown interest in interim positions. The posting would be posted on both the
    M.A.S.C. and M.A.S.S. web sites as well as sent out in other ways. MASC can post the position, collect resumes, and
    coordinate the interview process if necessary. Ms. Presser noted that interim superintendents are typically interviewed
    by the Committee in open session.

    Mr. Harris asked if it was typical for an interim to work only a few days a week but Ms. Presser noted that typically
    they work full time.

    Ms. Tedford stated that if the Committee could expedite an interim search and have someone in place before July 1,
    then that interim could work solidly with the current superintendent.

    Mr. Harris noted that over the next two months, the major focus for the Committee would be the building project and
    finalizing the budget process and noted how much of the Committee’s time will be spent on these two items.

    Ms. Tedford said she feels that an interim should be here for at least 6 months so he/she can possibly help fill the
    positions.
    Mr. Harris suggested that the Committee make a decision on which way they want to go, interim and spring search or
    interim and longer search, in order to have a choice of interims before other districts start looking for interims.

    Ms. Presser noted that MASC can post as soon as this Friday if the Committee makes a decision this Thursday.

    Ms. Schaeffner reminded the Committee that the Business Manager and the Student Services Director are School
    Committee hires and noted that the business manager is a big position to fill. Mr. Harris reminded the Committee that
    we currently have an Article for Town Meeting that could potentially mean that we may be working with the Town to
    fill this position. Ms. Presser noted that the Committee could go through M.A.S.B.O. for a retired interim business
    manager.

    Ms. Schaeffner made motion to initiate a permanent superintendent search for a start date of July 1, 2020. The motion
    was seconded by Ms. Taylor.




                                                             2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                           2/25/19

    Mr. Harris noted that he felt a consulting firm could start now with a spring search but Ms. Tedford stated that the
    focus should be on the building project. An interim could take us through the first stages of this process and build the
    way for the permanent superintendent.

    Ms. Tedford asked for a vote for the motion on the table which is to initiate an extended search with the start date for
    that superintendent of July 1, 2020. The Committee VOTED , 5-0, in favor.
    Ms. Tedford said that she will finalize the interim superintendent job description with Ms. Bowen and will send it off
    to MASC.

    Ms. Schaeffner noted that she spoke to John Bracket of the Collins Center at UMass Boston who perform many
    municipal searches to see if they sometimes work at finding superintendent candidates.

    Ms. Presser reminded the Committee that the main criteria for an interim is an experienced superintendent. She also
    noted that a retired superintendent could start sooner than someone who is currently employed.

    Ms. Gold made note that the position was posted internally but did not generate any interest.

    Mr. Harris noted that the Superintendent’s last day in district will be May 24th.

    Ms. Tedford noted that it might be helpful if M.A.S.C. could review governance issues for the new Committee
    sometime after the elections.

    Ms. Schaeffner asked if anyone will reach out to M.A.S.S. (response was yes) and if she should reach out to John
    Bracket at the Collins Center of UMass Boston to see if there would be a cost to this service (response was yes she
    should speak to them).

8:15 start regular meeting agenda

Mr. Harris stepped out of the meeting at 8:15

III. Consent Agenda& Action Items
     1. Budget Sub-Committee Mtg. Minutes: 1/24/19 at 230pm
        Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the Budget Sub-Committee meeting minutes of 1/24/19. The motion was
        seconded by Ms. Gold and the Committee VOTED 4-0. The motion passes.

    2. High School unused books declared as surplus
       Ms. Gold made motion to approve the request to declare the list of unused books as surplus. The motion was
       seconded by Ms. Taylor and the Committee VOTED 4-0. The motion passes.

Mr. Harris returned to the meeting at 8:25

    3. DECA State competition (overnight)
       Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the overnight stay of two nights to attend the DECA State Competition.
       The motion was seconded by Mr. Harris and the Committee VOTED 5-0. The motion passes.

    4. Interim Director of Student Services salary range
       The Committee was presented with a salary range recommendation for the position of Interim Director of Student
       Services which is a one year appointment for the period of July 1, 2019 – June 20, 2020. Ms. Tedford reminded
       the Committee that even though this range is very broad, someone coming in with little experience as an interim
       would be at the lower end of the range. Open session interviews will take place tomorrow morning for two
       candidates for this interim position and if one of them is recommended, that person would be presented to the
       Committee at another meeting.

       Ms. Gold made motion to approve the salary range of $115,000 - $178,000. The motion was seconded by Ms.
       Taylor and the Committee VOTED 5-0 in favor. The motion passes.



                                                              3
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                          2/25/19

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills
        #17555 $     540.00
        #17614 $ 6,732.70
        #17646 $241,151.83
        #17647 $ 20,292.46
        #17652 $ 24,192.94
          Total $292,909.93

        Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $292,909.93. The motion was seconded by
        Ms. Gold and the Committee VOTED 5-0 in favor. The motion passes.

        Ms. Tedford noted that once our business manager leaves, we will be working with the Town

   2.   FY19 Budget transfers $78,275 approval
        Ms. Tedford noted that these are the transfers/cuts that were previously presented to the Committee. She asked for
        a vote on these transfers.

        Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the transfer/cuts of $78,275. The motion was seconded by Ms. Taylor
        and the Committee VOTED 5-0 in favor. The motion passes.

   3.   FY20 Budget Discussion
        Ms. Tedford stated that the Committee is working though this budget season and she noted that the district budget
        will carry a deficit into next year. Ms. Schaeffner noted that for FY20, with a level services budget, we will have
        $623,359 deficit for that year which is why we need to work on balancing the budget.

        Ms. Tedford explained that she asked Ms. Maniaci to provide the SC with a template document that she gives the
        principals each year, and what a level services as well as a 20% cut would look like. She also noted that the
        principals are working on this. Ms. Tedford noted that this also reflects a cut to the curriculum line which Ms.
        Maniaci and the Assistant Superintendent are working on. Principals are also reviewing enrollment numbers
        which will give us a better handle on the number of classes.

        Mr. Harris asked if the Committee could please receive a report of the exact position, grade, and subject of those
        retiring what which of these positions will need to be back filled.

        Ms. Tedford suggested that the Committee meet before the building committee this Thursday. They can begin at
        6:00pm with a hard adjournment for 7:00pm. At this meeting the Committee can review interim search materials
        that Ms. Bowen can provide as well as discuss the budget. Then the following morning, March 1st, the Committee
        can meet at 8:15am to continue budget discussion. Our next regularly scheduled meeting is on March 7th.

        Ms. Tedford noted that the school district is scheduled to meet with FinCom on March 18th.
        Ms. Schaeffner noted that the SC needs to decide who will present to FinCom because generally it’s the
        superintendent and the business manager.

        Mr. Harris stated that he cannot make the Friday morning meeting but believes it would be important for the
        assistant superintendent, Mr. Bellucci and the principals to be in attendance.

        Ms. Tedford made note that her concern is that she perceives there to be a structural problem in the school budget
        because each year we need to make transfers and cuts. We cannot continue to work with a level budget and expect
        to repair, upgrade and maintain our facilities, technology and curriculum.

        Ms. Schaeffner noted that we asked for support from the town and we did not receive that support. We asked for
        $750,000 and received $250,000 last year. We had the establishment of a reserve fund and a vote to approve the
        appropriation of $250,000.




                                                             4
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                                                    2/25/19

           Mr. Harris noted that the citizens of the town have been generous in the way they’ve banded to help build a turf
           field, a track, white boards for the district and stated his desire to work with the allotted amount to which point Ms.
           Tedford made note that we do rely on many groups and are thankful for their donations but that since the majority
           of the budget goes to salaries, the small amount left does not cover what is needed, especially since the tuition
           costs has increased by 2.63%. We’re looking for more inclusion but with this comes the need for more teachers,
           tutors or paras. Ms. Tedford noted that she is incredibly frustrated by the list of needs that will not be fulfilled.

           The Committee discussed the need for a placeholder meeting the week of March 11th. Further discussion will
           follow.

V. Closing Business
   A. New Business
        Ms. Schaeffner informed the Committee that there is a petition for a special town meeting.
        Mr. Harris mentioned that there will be a Building committee meeting this Thursday, the 28th. Discussion will be
        on the maximum grant for funding; the project schedule, overall transition schedule and if passed at Town
        meeting, the approximate date that construction would start. When school is out for the year, the Bell will be
        closed and we will begin prepping the Village School to accept the 3rd graders and the Eveleth School for
        Kindergarteners. Ms. Zaeske will be the principal for Kindergarten and grade 3 and Mr. Satterfield for the 1st and
        2nd grades. Mr. Lord is reviewing air quality testing at Eveleth and will start trial runs on busses from Coffin to
        Eveleth in order to nail down start times.

           Ms. Tedford noted that the test runs are happening this week and within the next few weeks with forum dates
           decided, the Committee will be able to present a written document that includes all of this information. Mr. Harris
           stated that he feels this document should go out to community on district letterhead (transition schedule for school
           project).

           Ms. Schaeffner said that the first forum date is scheduled for March 28th and perhaps the presentation can be
           finalized during the week of March 15-20th. Ms. Tedford suggested that Mr. Harris email Mr. Lord and cc
           Superintendent Perry to let them know what information he will need and by what date he will need it so he can
           work on the power point presentation for the forum.

           Dates noted were Thursday, March 28th and Tuesday, April 23rd for forums. Also noted was Warrant hearing date
           of March 25th.

           Ms. Taylor noted her concern about supporting the chair and vice chair and asked if information and tasks could
           be shared in order for all members to have the knowledge basis. Ms. Tedford noted that much of what they know
           comes from asking questions of the administrators and that any member with questions should make an
           appointment to speak to these administrators while they are still in district. This is the best place to start and the
           best way to gain knowledge of how departments and processes work.

           Ms. Schaeffner made note that she will not be present for the March 7th or March 21st meetings.

     B. Correspondence
     C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn was made and the meeting ended at 9:45pm
                                                                                              Respectfully submitted,
                                                                                              Sarah Gold
                                                                                              Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
Budget Sub-Committee Mtg. Minutes: 1/24/19@ 2:30pm
High School unused books declared as surplus
DECA State competition (overnight)
Salary range recommendation for the position of Interim Director of Student Services, a 1 yr apt. fromf July 1, 2019 - June 30, 2020
Schedule of Bills
FY19 Budget transfers $78,275 approval

Approved 3/21/19



                                                                            5
