                              Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                            Tuesday October 22, 2019
                                          The Glover School Cafeteria



Members Present:                            Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Jennifer Schaeffner, David Harris
                                            and Sarah Fox

Also:                                       William, H. McAlduff Jr.-Interim Superintendent
                                            Evan Katz- Interim Business Manager

Absent:

I.        Initial Business and Public Involvement
          1. Call to Order
               Ms. Gold calls the meeting to order at 7:02pm.
          2. Commendations
               Mr. Harris read an open letter from Jeffrey Doherty, President of Goldthwait Reservation addressed to
               High School Principal, Daniel Bauer that was in the Marblehead Reporter. The letter recognized the
               efforts of everyone involved in the Service Day cleanup of the reservation the former week. Mr.
               Doherty extended the reservations gratitude and mentioned the environmental stewardship of the
               students.

               Ms. Schaeffner asked for a moment of silence in recognition of the passing of a former physical
               education teacher, Mr. Bill McCarthy. Ms. Schaeffner extended her condolences to his family and
               shared that he was beloved by all.

          3.   Public Comment

          4.   Dan Howells, Student Rep, Junior and Class President
                PSAT’s were last Saturday for Sophomores and Juniors
                Last Sunday was the Booster’s annual Scholarship Drive
                There was an ALICE training Monday 10/21 that focused on the decision making aspect of
                  ALICE
                October 24th will be the 8th grade Open House night at the High School
                The Drama Club will be hosting a fundraiser at Chipotle on 10/30/19
                The National Honor’s Society Blood Drive will be 10/30/19

II.       Consent Agenda and Action Items
          1. Minutes
             a. August 15, 2019
             b. September 5, 2019
             c. September 10, 2019

                  Ms. Schaeffner noted the omission of certain names from the minutes from the night of September
                  10th, the night of the consultant interviews for the Superintendent Search and stated that she would
                  provide them to the Superintendent’s Assistant, Ms. Dimier to include them.

                  Ms. Gold made a motion to accept the minutes from 8/15/19, 9/5/19 and 9/10/19 with the addition
                  of the missing names on September 10th. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by M
                  s. Fox. The motion carries, 5-0.

          2.   Approval to declare HS English books as surplus
            Superintendent McAlduff shared that the High School book room was relocated over the summer
            which provided an opportunity for staff to look at books no longer in use and ones that were no longer
            able to be used.

            Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the High School English books as surplus which was moved by
            Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor. The motion carries, 4-0 as Mr. Harris was not present at this
            time to be included in the vote.

            A short discussion regarding what to do with the books occurred. Ms. Gold inquired if Magic Hat
            would take them to which Ms. Schaeffner mentioned she was not sure due to the amount.
            Superintendent McAlduff indicated that he would like to see them donated.

       3.   Approval to declare Village School balance beam surplus
            It was shared that a former physical education balance beam from the Village School that is no longer
            in working order be accepted as surplus and disposed of.

            Ms. Gold made a motion to declare the Village School balance beam as surplus which was moved by
            Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor. The motion carries, 4-0

III.   Teaching/Learning Superintendent Report

IV.    Finance Organizational Support
       1. Schedule of Bills
           #18634 $226,177.23
           #18635 $253,415.88
           #18638 $41, 771.96
           #18643 $8,910.00
           #18644 $16,053.67
          + ------------
           $ 546,328.74

       Ms. Gold apologized to the school committee for not having totaled the schedule of Bills. Ms. Schaeffner
       read aloud the individual totals to which Ms. Gold then made a motion to accept the individual listed
       schedule of bills. The motion was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Schaeffner. The motion passes,
       5-0 in favor.

       Ms. Taylor inquired about funds related to the closed Bell School to which Ms. Fox shared that at the time
       the budget was created that there was no line item for Eveleth to reflect the change.

       Ms. Gold mentioned that the business office could always assist with invoice questions.

       Superintendent McAlduff mentioned creating cover memos for the schedule of bills moving forward to
       make the process smoother.

       2.   End of Fiscal Year 2019 Report
            Superintendent McAlduff introduced Mr. Evan Katz to present the end of FY 2019 report and
            thanked him for his professionalism and service to the district mentioning that his expertise has been
            invaluable.

            Mr. Katz thanked Superintendent McAlduff and noted that working with the school committee and the
            business office administration staff of Mary, Kathy, Diane and Barbara made it easy to stay on the
            additional time.

            Mr. Katz presented highlights from his reporting which focused on grants and revolving fund
            accounts. He recommended building a conservative budget when planning for each fiscal year ahead to
            build in enough caution so that the Superintendent and school committee could respond to unexpected
          events.

          A conversation regarding all-day kindergarten enrollment and the revenue from the use of facility
          rentals took place. It was noted that where budget lines were over or under funded should be more
          closely looked at in support of perhaps consolidating smaller accounts.

          When Ms. Schaeffner mentioned reliance on Circuit Breaker, Mr. Katz also shared the importance of
          paying close attention to the increasing costs of special education and stated that with the states proper
          funding that they could continue to rely on that higher level of support.

          Mr. Katz noted that the specific areas to pay special attention to when building the budget would
          include salaries, special education out of district tuition and transportation costs, energy costs,
          substitute salaries and the tax deferred match for employees.

          When asked by Mr. Harris to provide a comparison of the Softright accounting system currently in
          place versus other programs such as Munis for example, Mr. Katz shared that the only thing he wished
          Softright could do better was to encumber salaries since salaries made up the biggest part of the budget.

     3.   FY20 Budget Update
          a. Salaries Report
          b. Staffing Report
             Superintendent McAlduff shared a PowerPoint presentation reflecting FY20 salaries organized by
             bargaining and non-bargaining groups. The data reflected the building location and FTE (full time
             equivalency) status of all staff with the exception of food service workers which had not been
             calculated yet.

               He shared that the Interim Business Manager, Mr. John Moretti had spent the last six weeks
               working on spreadsheets determining salaries and identifying the staff receiving other payments
               such as longevity and stipends.

               Superintendent McAlduff shared that the two basic assumptions made when determining the
               recommended staffing salary budget of $34,678, 015 consisted of 1) assuming the same staffing
               levels as FY19 and 2) assuming the completion of all collective bargaining agreements and cost
               of living, COLA increases for all staff. It was shared that the starting point for salaries began with
               the numbers used from the FY19 salary audit completed in May of 2019, accounted for the step
               increases less any adjustments for unfilled positions to bring the new salary total to a positive net
               difference of around $237, 757. It was mentioned that the report was still a work in progress and
               that overtime for custodians also needed to still be calculated. The report also specified that the
               district currently has 529.27 FTEs with a staff head count of 562.

               It was noted that another salary (including expenses) update would be shared at the next school
               committee meeting scheduled for November 7th.


V.   School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
     1. BCG Building Committee Update
        Mr. Harris shared that the subcommittee for selecting the CM (construction manager) for the new
        school building project completed interviews last Wednesday and Thursday. It was shared that a
        scorecard was developed and that the building committee would be reconvening on Wednesday
        October 23rd at 7:30pm for final deliberations.

          Mr. Harris stated that he thought Marblehead would be well served by any of the six (6) potential
          CM’s and Ms. Fox contributed that the hope was to have a CM on board within the next few weeks so
          the project could move into the permitting and demolition stages.

     2.   Superintendent Search Update
                     Ms. Schaeffner shared that the invitation letter for candidate submissions had gone live on NESDEC’s
                     website. She also stated that her and Ms. Fox had been working on finalizing the screening committee
                     and that interested parents and community members should submit their application by email by
                     November 1st. Ms. Schaeffner shared that the interested applicants would be selected at the November
                     7th school committee meeting with the first screening committee meeting scheduled for November 25 th.

                     It was also mentioned that focus groups would be held on October 28th and 29th both during the day
                     and throughout the evening.

                     Ms. Fox informed everyone that the survey which would help build Marblehead’s Superintendent
                     Candidate Profile was live on both the school and the town’s websites and would remain available
                     until November 8th.

                     When Ms. Taylor inquired about the process for selecting the remaining search committee applicants a
                     group conversation occurred. Ms. Taylor stressed the importance of a fair and transparent process and
                     mentioned that the school committee had not yet decided what that would be. Although no formal vote
                     was taken, the consensus was that the names would be drawn out of a “hat” at the next school
                     committee meeting scheduled for November 7th.


VI.             Closing Business
                1. New Business

                2.   Correspondence

                3.   Adjournment
                     Ms. Gold motioned to enter into executive session (returning to open session for the purposes of
                     adjournment) pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws: Chapter 30A, section 21(a) for purpose (3): to
                     discuss strategy in relation to a former employee because an open meeting may have a detrimental
                     effect on the litigating position of the school committee.

                     The motion was accepted by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor. A roll call vote was
                     taken:
                     Ms. Schaeffner-yes
                     Ms. Fox-yes
                     Ms. Taylor-yes
                     Mr. Harris-yes

                     Ms. Gold noted they would be returning to open session for the purposes of adjournment.

VII.            Executive Session
                Meet in Executive Session


                                                                                          Respectfully Submitted,
                                                                                          Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                                          Marblehead School Committee



       Meeting Documents:
       Memos-Declared Surplus
       Schedule of Bills
       End of FY 2019 Report
       FY20 Budget Update Reports


       Approved December 12, 2019
