                          Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                       Friday September 13, 2019
                  Marblehead Administration Building Superintendent’s Conference Room

Members Present:                          Sarah Gold, Jennifer Schaeffner and Sarah Fox

Also:                                     William, H. McAlduff Jr.-Interim Superintendent

Members Absent:                           Meagan Taylor and David Harris

I.      Initial Business and Public Involvement
        a. Call to Order
             Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 1:30pm.

        b.   Public Comment
             Ms. Martin, a member of the building project committee stated that she would like to share her concern
             about a vote that took place at the building committee meeting last night. Ms. Martin shared that she
             felt that the committee as clients was not provided accurate cost estimates from the OPM for the new
             gymnasium that was presented last night. She added that she did not feel the committee was provided
             enough pricing information to make an informed vote regarding the seating in the gymnasium. She
             noted that the new elementary school is being built for use for the next 30 years and that no seating in
             the gymnasium would preclude Marblehead from many activities and tournaments. Ms. Martin also
             mentioned that Marblehead did not have the historical rental information to inform the rate of rentals
             for revenue to the school. She also shared that she would like the building committee to be looking
             towards the future.

II.     Affirmations of Building Project Contracts
        a. RDA Contract Amendment
            Ms. Gold motioned to affirm the contract for the RDA contract amendment
            The motion was moved by Ms.Schaeffner and seconded by Ms. Fox. The motion carries,
            3-0 in favor.

        b.   Leftfield Contract Amendment
             Ms. Gold motioned to affirm the contract for the Leftfield contract amendment. The motion was
             moved by Ms.Schaeffner and seconded by Ms. Fox. The motion carries, 3-0 in favor.

        c.   Massachusetts Building Authority Project Funding Agreement
             Ms. Gold motioned to affirm the contract for the Massachusetts Building Authority Project
             funding Agreement. The motion was moved by Ms. Schaeffner and seconded by Ms. Fox. The motion
             carries, 3-0 in favor.

             Ms. Fox shared that wished there was more deliverables presented before design and development.

III.    New Business

IV.     Adjournment
        The meeting adjourned at 1:44pm

                                                                                           Respectfully Submitted,
                                                                                           Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                                           Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
Raymond Design Associates, RDA Contract Amendment #3
Leftfield Contract Amendment # 1
Massachusetts Building Authority Project Funding Agreement

Approved 11/7/2019
