                               Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                           Thursday, September 5, 2019
                                         Marblehead High School Library

Members Present:                            Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Jennifer Schaeffner,
                                            David Harris and Sarah Fox

Also:                                       William, H. McAlduff Jr.-Interim Superintendent
                                            Dan Howells-Student Representative

Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business and Public Involvement

     1. Call to Order
        Ms. Gold called the meeting back to order in open session at 7:10 pm. She welcomed everyone and
        addressed the room reminding public comment speakers to please add their name and address to the sheet
        and to share their name and address when commenting.

     2. Commendations
        Ms. Fox thanked the custodial staff at Eveleth for their hard work in preparing the Eveleth School for
        opening day.

          Ms. Gold also noted and thanked the parks and recreation department along with the garden committee for
          their involvement as well.

          Mr. Harris mentioned how the administrative staff and teachers showed a great team effort to start the 2019-
          2020 school year moving in a positive direction.

     3. Public Comment
        Ms. Gold opened up the floor for public comment. Community member Cindy Loewen, a member of the
        Marblehead Racial Justice Team thanked the school committee for the work they are doing with the
        METCO Program. Ms. Loewen mentioned that she enjoyed attending the METCO Back to School Night.
        Ms. Loewen also thanked the school committee for their focused involvement in the Superintendent Search.

     4. Student Representative
        Dan Howells, Student Rep, Junior and Class President
         Student Peer Mentor Program-Juniors and Seniors will be paired with Freshmen to help with the high
            school adjustment (the program enjoyed a successful last year)
         Picture Day will be Friday September 6th
         Fall sports started back up and September 20th with be the first home football game against Gloucester
         The Distractology Program is a free program coming to the high school to teach students about the
            dangers of distracted driving (students can receive $15 gas card for completing the course)

II. Superintendent of School’s Report

     1.   District Reports and Updates (Sarah Gold Introduces)
          a. Opening Day Report
              Superintendent McAlduff mentioned the positive feedback he received from each of the principals
              regarding opening day at each of the school buildings. He also commended the Marblehead Public
              Schools staff and personnel stating how impressed he has been with them during the district’s time of
              transition. Superintendent McAlduff also thanked the administrators, staff and custodial and
              maintenance workers and bus drivers for all the extra effort over the summer to prepare the buildings
              for opening day. He specifically thanked Mr. Bloodgood, Director of Facilities and Eveleth Principal,
              Ms. Zaeske for all of the summer preparation that contributed to a successful building opening at the
              Eveleth School.

         b.   Enrollment Information
              Superintendent McAlduff gave a brief overview of the current enrollment numbers and mentioned that
              the numbers will be monitored regularly to provide a more detailed enrollment report sometime after
              October 1st.

         c.   Personnel Update
              Superintendent McAlduff shared that he was “happy to report” that Michelle Cresta signed her contract
              today (9/5/19) to begin work on Monday, December 2 nd as the new Director of Finance. He also shared
              that, Mr. John Moretti will become the Temporary Director of Finance beginning on Monday,
              September 9th.

              Ms. Schaeffner asked if the current Interim Director of Finance, Mr. Katz will remain with Marblehead
              Public Schools alongside Mr. Moretti.

              Superintendent McAlduff responded by clarifying that Mr. Katz will remain with the business office
              part time to complete the FY19 end of the year report which should be completed and share by the end
              of October.

              It was noted by the Superintendent that almost all of the hiring should be complete with the exception
              of a handful special education positions the Coffin and Village Schools.

         d.   Transportation Update
              Superintendent McAlduff gave an update about district transportation sharing that, “all has gone well.”
              He noted that the timing of school hours and the bus schedules may need to be more closely examined
              to adjust for the population of parents experiencing difficulty with trying to arrive on time to multiple
              buildings for pick up.

III. Finance Organizational Report

    1.   Schedule of Bills
         Ms. Gold made a motion to accept the schedule of bills in the amount of $643, 512.58. Ms. Fox approved
         and the motion was seconded my Ms. Taylor. The motion carries, 5-0 in favor.

         It was decided that school committee agenda item information would be placed in the shared Dropbox
         folders on the Friday prior to meeting so the committee members would be provided ample time for
         reviewing documents prior to the next scheduled school committee meeting.

    2.   Fiscal Year Budget Update
         Ms. Gold shared that Superintendent McAlduff will provide an update on the current year fiscal budget.

         Superintendent McAlduff reported that the two major components of the approved FY20 budget of
         $39,624,425 were salaries and expenses. Referencing the May 2019 audit completed by Melanson and
         Health, it was noted that the same number of FTE’s could be assumed.

         Superintendent McAlduff provided the school committee with a document outlining various places where
         funds were made available to cover the $1.1 million Gap. It was noted that adjustments from unfilled
         vacancies and an adjusted curriculum development plan were utilized and that such adjustments would not
         directly impact services to students. It was also mentioned that such adjustments should not considered
         sustainable beyond the 2019-2020 School Year.
        It was also noted that the budget for Special Education transportation and out of district placement for
        students would be examined more closely to strategize alternate sources of funding such as specific grants
        for transportation in order to support appropriate funding for the Special Education Department.

        Superintendent McAlduff mentioned the need to look more closely at individual building salaries in which
        future requests of line item transfers may need approval from the school committee since the budget has
        already been approved.

        Ms. Fox wanted to note that no staff or personnel were terminated to meet funding and that all unfilled
        positions were due to resignations or retirements.

        Ms. Taylor thanked Superintendent McAlduff for all of his efforts thus far.

        Ms. Schaeffner asked if there was a proposed date for a meeting with the B.O.S regarding discussing the
        budget for next year to which Ms. Gold replied that the joint meeting should take place within the next six
        (6) weeks.

IV. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion Items

   1.   Superintendent Search
        a. Review of Requests for Proposal
           Superintendent McAlduff provided an update on the search for seeking out a consultant firm to assist
           the school committee in hiring a new Superintendent of Schools. He stated that he originally reached
           out to six (6) firms, of which only four (4) responded. The four consultant firms that responded were:

            Collins Center for Public Management at UMASS Boston
            HYA-Hazard, Young, Attea and Associates
            MASC-Massachusetts Association of School Committees
            NESDC-New England School Development Council

            It was noted that the proposals included fixed fees, travel rates and reimbursable advertising fees.
            Ms.Schaeffner inquired about the budget for the search to which the consensus estimated around a
            previous mention budget of around $35,000

            After discussing the individual search firms, Mr. Harris mentioned that he was prepared to make a
            motion to invite the Collins Center, MASC and NESDEC to the interview session that would be held
            on Tuesday September 10th at 7:15pm. The motion was seconded by Ms. Fox which was then amended
            by Mr. Harris to which he motioned to invite all four (4) candidates to the Tuesday meeting. Ms. Fox
            seconded and the motion carried, 5-0 in favor.

   2.   Review of School Committee and Superintendent Goals for 19/20 School Year
        Superintendent McAlduff shared a report with the school committee on both the short and long term
        2019/2020 school year goals. It was stated that some of the most important goals currently being worked on
        involved the filling of central administration vacancies, closing out the FY19 budget and creating a
        transition plan for the new school which included a focus on transportation.

        Superintendent McAlduff shared that long term plans and priorities would be revisited later in the year to
        readjust if needed.

        Ms. Schaeffner noted that the maintenance of school buildings is something the sub-committees should
        further focus on moving forward. Ms. Fox agreed that it should a long-term goal of the facilities committee.
   3.   BCG Building Vote
        Mr. Harris gave an update regarding the building of the new elementary school. He shared that OPM,
        building committee member, Catherine Martin and the Town Administrator, Jason Silva met to go over the
        new site plans. Mr. Harris noted that they are in the process of receiving submissions for construction
        managers. He mentioned that there would be an update from the architect regarding progress towards
        design completion at the next meeting which has been scheduled for September 12th. It was also mentioned
        that the naming of the new elementary school still needed to be added as a future agenda item.

   4.   Approval of Policies
        The vote to approve updated policies was put on hold until the policy committee could further review the
        individual policies.

   5.   Donations
        The vote to approve donations was also put on hold

   6.   Proposed MHS Fitness Center Supervisor Stipend
        Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the stipend for a Supervisor to the new Fitness Center at the
        Marblehead High School. The stipend would be in the amount of $3,000 for the year from the hours of
        2:45-5pm and would be funded by the All Sports Boosters. Ms. Fox agrees with the motion and the motion
        is seconded by Ms. Taylor. The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

   7.   Approval of 2019-2020 Liaisons/Subcommittees
        Ms. Gold made a motion to accept the following individuals to be appointed as subcommittee
        representatives and liaisons to S.A.C’s. The motion is amended to remove herself from the health/wellness
        subcommittee to include Ms. Taylor instead. Ms. Fox approves the motion and it is seconded by Ms.
        Taylor. The motion carries, 5-0 all in favor.

        Budget Committee
        Sarah Fox/Meagan Taylor
        Policy Committee
        Jennifer Schaeffner/Meagan Taylor
        Safety Committee
        Sarah Gold/Sarah Fox
        B.C.G Building Committee
        Sarah Fox/Jennifer Schaeffner
        Facilities Committee
        Sarah Fox/Jennifer Schaeffner
        Health/Wellness Committee
        Meagan Taylor/Jennifer Schaeffner
        SEPAC
        Sarah Gold
        Liaisons to the School Advisory Council
        Eveleth/Coffin-Sarah Fox and Jennifer Schaeffner
        Glover- Jennifer Schaeffner
        Village- Meagan Taylor
        Veterans- Sarah Fox
        High School- Sarah Gold

V. Closing Business
   1.   New Business
        Ms. Gold mentioned the hard work of new Director of Student Services, Eric oxford and wanted to thank
        him for his efforts.

        Mr. Harris mentioned a neighbor inquiring about new building milestones and how this should be further
        discussed at a future school committee meeting. He mentioned updates to the website and elsewhere as
        construction progresses.

   2.   Correspondence
        a. A letter from High School Principal Dan Bauer to parents was shared. The letter informed parents of
           senior year events including prom, scholar night, trips and graduation. It was noted that graduation has
           been moved to Friday, June 5th from 6-7:30pm.

        b.   A letter from DESE regarding an audit conducted in the Fall of 2018 was also shared. It was noted that
             the findings from the audit were addressed and that the district was now in compliance.

        c.   A final letter from MASC was also shared. The letter stated that the Magic Hat Thrift Store had been
             nominated as an outstanding partner and would be recognized at a conference dinner on Thursday,
             November 7th in Hyannis.

   3.   Adjournment
        Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:43pm.

                                                                                Respectfully Submitted,
                                                                                Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                                Marblehead School Committee

Approved 10/22/2019
