                            Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                          Thursday October 3, 2019
                                      Marblehead High School Library

Members Present:                         Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Jennifer Schaeffner,
                                         David Harris and Sarah Fox

Also:                                    William, H. McAlduff Jr.-Interim Superintendent
                                         Dan Howells-Student Representative

Members Absent:

                                                          VISE
I.      Initial Business and Public Involvement

        1.   Call to Order
             Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:02pm. She asked if anyone had any commendations they
             would like to share to which Ms. Fox replied that she did.

        2.   Commendations
             Ms. Fox thanked the high school girls’ soccer team for their work with the Marblehead Youth
             Soccer Association, MYSA. Ms. Fox also thanked the Superintendent’s Administrative Assistant, Lisa
             Dimier and High School Librarian, Ms. Susan Shatford for all of the “behind the scenes” work they
             complete for securing rooms for meeting spaces for the school committee and their subcommittees.

        3.   Public Comment

        4.   Dan Howells, Student Rep, Junior and Class President
              It was shared that Mr. Howells has landed the lead in the High School play, Captain Hook
              The High School had their 3rd annual activity fair with 52 active clubs taking part
              The Freshman class recently held officer elections
              Due to the improved composting system with separate areas for trash, composting and recycling,
                the trash out has been greatly reduced at Marblehead High School
              Auditions for the performing arts competition, Marblehead’s Got Talent hosted by the Rotary
                Club of Marblehead are scheduled for 10/3 from 6-9 and 10/7 from 6-9pm in the auditorium. The
                competition will take place in February and winners will be allotted college scholarship funds.
              It was announced that the next Football game is scheduled for Friday 10/4 against Beverly

II.     Consent Agenda and Action Items

        1.   Minutes: 8/15/19; 9/5/2019
             The vote to approve minutes from August 15th and September 5th was postponed until the school
             committee was provided additional time to further review them.

        2.   Appointment of the District’s Representative to the NEC Board
             Superintendent McAlduff shared a memo he wrote to the school committee mentioning that past
             practice has been to appoint the Superintendent of each member district as the Northshore Education
             Consortium (NEC) Board representative. He noted that he had already attended two meetings and that
             he would be happy to serve for the 2019/2020 school year. Superintendent McAlduff did note that the
             school committee should still vote and also vote again in the spring to appoint a new representative
             when a new Superintendent is appointed. Ms. Gold made a motion to appoint Interim Superintendent
             McAlduff as the Marblehead Public Schools Representative on the NEC’s Board of Directors. The
             motion carries, 5-0 in favor.
III.   Teaching/Learning Superintendent Report

       1.   Distance Learning Days
            Veterans Principal, Mr. Matthew Fox was invited to discuss the winter 2018/2019 Alternative
            Structured Learning Day Pilot Program that was implemented due to the frequency of snow days in
            recent years. Mr. Fox mentioned that the program, known as Distance Learning Days (DLD) was
            unfortunately not utilized due to lack of snow days.

            Mr. Fox shared a memo from the Commissioner of Elementary and Secondary Education that was sent
            to Superintendents on June 26, 2019 stating that the pilot program would be discontinued. The memo
            further stated that a one year extension in the form of a waiver would be provided to previously
            approved school districts in which case Marblehead would qualify. Mr. Fox mentioned that the school
            committee should decide whether the waiver should be utilized during the 2019/2020 school year.

            Superintendent McAlduff explained that it was not necessary to vote regarding the use of the waiver
            since it was already in place. A group discussion regarding the use of the pilot program waiver
            occurred.

            Ms. Schaeffner noted her concerns regarding the pressure on the school calendar regarding late
            dismissal in June due to snow days.

            Ms. Fox also mentioned her concern regarding the curriculum plan for special education students
            during the distance learning days.

            Ms. Gold shared that the distance learning days also made it more difficult for parents to sort out a plan
            for childcare when school was canceled yet the parents still needed to work.

            Ms. Fox confirmed with Mr. Fox that no action needed be taken to which the school committee
            unanimously agreed. The committee also agreed that the school calendar concerns would need to be
            more closely looked at once a new Superintendent was in place. Principal Fox was thanked by all for
            attending to discuss the distance learning day pilot program.

       2.   Safe Routes to School and No Idling Campaign
            Judith Black from Sustainable Marblehead and Judith Crocker from the Massachusetts Department of
            Transportation presented a Powerpoint about the federal program, Safe Routes to School run by the
            Massachusetts Department of Transportation.

            It was shared that the goal of the program has been to increase the health and safety of communities by
            encouraging exercise when walking to school while simultaneously increasing pedestrian health and
            safety by decreasing traffic and pollution from idling cars. It was noted that parent traffic is estimated
            to include about thirty (30) percent of the current traffic on the road.

            The representatives provided a history of the program stating that the program originated in Denmark,
            could now be found in over forty five (45) countries and is currently being utilized in sixty (60) percent
            of Massachusetts Schools. It was explained that the curriculum is geared toward middle school
            students including thirty (30) minute lesson plans and would include webinars for educators. Ms. Black
            also shared that member districts would be provided access to additional grants after six (6) months.

            The representatives offered to provide input for optimal traffic flow at the new elementary school. Ms.
            Black form Sustainable Marblehead also suggested the future investment in electric buses to cut down
            on ozone levels from idling which could be contributing to asthma and help to save school districts
            money in transportation cost over the long term.

            The school committee thanked both representatives for coming and agreed that it would be helpful to
            have input regarding the traffic plan for the new school. Ms. Fox shared that she would be interested in
            learning more about the grant opportunities and receiving more information. Ms. Gold thanked both
            representatives and noted that “we are always looking for ways in how we can better support our
            students.”

IV.   Finance Organizational Support
      1. Schedule of Bills

            #18576 $64,428.03
            #18579 $8941.43
            #18589 $263,161.82
            #18594 $20,732.19
            #18596 $45,391.33
            #18597 $18,366.75
                   + ------------
                   $ 421,021.55

            Ms. Gold made a motion to accept the Schedule of Bills totaling $421,021.55. The motion was moved
            by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor. The motion passes, 5-0 in favor.

      2.    Report on FY20 Expenditures
            Superintendent McAlduff shared an expense report compiled as of September 26th. It was noted that a
            few line items such as the computer and supplies budget for central admin and the custodial funds
            budget showed overages. He further explained that the overage for the computer and supplies for
            example were due to license renewals and that line items with overages would balance out as the
            school year continues. Superintendent McAlduff also noted that he would need to follow up with
            principals to track down other overages to ensure appropriate line item expenditures moving forward.
            He also mentioned that he will be presenting a personnel salary report at the next school committee
            meeting scheduled for mid-late October. Interim Business Manager, Mr. Evan Katz will also present a
            report on the FY19 End of the Year Closeout.

            When asked by Ms. Schaeffner if the report included every expense, Superintendent McAlduff replied,
           “ Yes, I was pleasantly surprised and remain optimistic about this year’s budget.” “We are in a good
             place but will still monitor closely.”

            Ms. Fox thanked Superintendent McAlduff and stated that, “ It would be helpful moving forward to
            see areas where we are running over.” Ms. Gold agreed and mentioned also where finances are being
            underutilized.

V.    School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
      1. BCG Building Committee Update
         Mr. Harris provided an update on the elementary school building project. He shared the interviewing
         process for selecting a construction manager is underway. He stated that requests for proposals were
         expected to be returned by October 11th. He further shared that meetings will be held on both October
         16th and October 17th to interview the construction manager applicants. It was mentioned that the
         building committee has also reserved October 23rd as an additional night to deliberate voting should
         they need.

            Ms. Gold mentioned to please keep the school committee informed if things need to happen sooner.

            Ms. Fox shared her concern over a recent vote that took place regarding the gymnasium of the new
            elementary school in which she noted there had been expressed concern from other committee and
            community members about the outcome. A group discussion occurred in relation to having a more
            collaborative approach amongst subcommittee members, the architect and construction manager when
            reviewing cost estimates to ensure a detailed understanding so that the subcommittee would be better
            informed prior to any voting moving forward.
     Ms. Schaeffner also mentioned the importance of staying within the budget allotted for the building
     project and affirmed that the goal is to end with the best product for the town and students.
     Mr. Harris agreed with Ms. Schaeffner and further contributed that the new construction manager
     would help to guide the building committee and school committee through future decisions and voting
     which would ultimately help the project to meet costs and clarify architectural plans.

2.   Orientation Meeting with Superintendent Search Consultant Update
     Ms. Gold mentioned that the school committee had met with NESDEC last evening, Wednesday
     October 2nd and shared that some good decisions were made for the makeup of the Superintendent
     Search Committee.

     Ms. Fox shared that with the guidance of NESDEC the number of members for the search committee
     would equal thirteen (13) and consist of:

     1Central Office representative
     1 Principal
     2 Teachers
     1 SEPAC representative
     2 School Committee Members (Ms. Schaeffer and Ms. Fox)
     1 Parent-Prek-6
     1 Parent-7th-12
     2 Public Officials
     2 Community Members (Retired Educators)

     It was shared that focus groups and online surveys will be set up to help build a candidate profile.

     Ms. Schaeffer shared a letter she would be submitting to the press to inform the community of the
     search. The committee thanked Ms. Schaeffer for her work writing the letter and Ms. Gold stressed
     the importance of only serious applicants applying to be part of the committee as a lot of time and
     commitment would be expected of them.

     Superintendent McAlduff inquired if the committee wanted to vote on the makeup of the search
     committee to which Ms. Taylor replied that she felt they should vote because the makeup is what they
     would be working from to narrow down the search committee.

     Ms. Fox motioned to designate the screening committee members as listed above for a total of thirteen
     (13) members. The motion is seconded by Ms. Taylor, The motion carries, 5-0 in favor.

3.   Follow-Up to School Naming Discussion
     Superintendent McAlduff shared that there has been an email address setup for receiving name
     suggestions for the new elementary school.

     Ms. Gold stated that the email to send suggestion to is schoolname@marbleheadschools.org

     It was also mentioned that the technology department would be working on a message to invite the
     community to click on a link to notify people where they vote.

     A short discussion about how to get the message out the community occurred. It was decided that
     Ms.Schaeffner would be responsible for distributing boxes throughout the town for paper submissions.
     Ms. Fox thought it may educational and fun to get the kindergarteners involved in designing some
     boxes. A mid-November deadline for submissions was mentioned.

4.   MASC/MASS Joint Conference – Discussion
     Ms. Gold asked the school committee if anyone had an interest to attend the MASC/MASS Joint
     Conference in Hyannis in November. Ms. Schaeffner mentioned that she would be happy to attend one
     day as she would already be in the area as a representative for the Special Education Committee she
              takes part in. Ms. Gold mentioned she could attend on Friday. Superintendent McAlduff asked Ms.
              Gold and Ms. Schaeffner to confirm the days they would be attending with his Administrative
              Assistant Ms. Dimier so she could finalize their registration.

VI.      Closing Business
         1. New Business
             Ms. Schaeffner stated that due to the building committee interviews scheduled for the 17 th and other
             school committee member conflicts that the next school committee meeting scheduled for the 17 th
             should be moved to Wednesday the 16th or another date. It was agreed that Tuesday, October 22 nd
             could work for all and the committee mentioned the importance of inviting MHTV for broadcasting.

         2.   Correspondence
              It was mentioned that the Superintendent McAlduff, Ms. Gold and Ms. Fox received an email earlier
              that day related to the building project and that the information would be shared at one of the next
              school committee meetings to allow other committee members time to review the information.

         3.   Adjournment
              The meeting Adjourned at 9:27pm

                                                                                    Respectfully Submitted,
                                                                                    Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                                    Marblehead School Committee

Meeting Documents:
Northshore Education Consortium (NEC) Board of Directors Appointment Memo
Distance Learning Days Presentation Materials and PowerPoint
Safe Routes to School and No Idling Campaign Materials
Schedule of Bills
FY20 Expenditures Report
New England School Development Council (NESDEC) orientation follow-up memo
New Elementary School Naming Process follow-up memo
MASC/MASS Joint Conference Discussion follow-up memo

Approved 11/7/2019
