                                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                             Thursday, January 24, 2019
                                               Marblehead High School

Members Present:                           Meredith Tedford, Jennifer Schaeffner, David Harris
                                           Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor

Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business
     1. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm. She noted that this was an unusual meeting because none of
        the administrators are present. Due to this fact, they will modify the agenda. Some agenda items need to be voted
        on this evening by the Committee. She noted that they received a lot of feedback from the community on both sides
        of the issue but it is the role as board members to remain calm and respective as they have a process that they must
        follow.

        Ms. Tedford reminded anyone who wants to speak in public comment to add their name to the sheet and to say their
        name and address when called.

        Mr. Harris made a motion to take items out of order on the agenda. First he would like to give an update on the
        Bell Coffin Gerry school; secondly, he feels the Committee needs to have a discussion and vote on warrant articles
        because town warrant closes tomorrow; the white water rafting trip needs to be voted on; new business and finally
        the last item would be public comment. Ms. Taylor seconded the motion.

        Ms. Tedford stated that she was not comfortable to take items out of order. Ms. Schaeffner noted that the
        Committee needs to vote on the letter to the selectman and the school calendar but Mr. Harris disagreed with what
        needs to be voted this evening. He stated that since there was no representation from the administration and due to
        the lack of confidence he has in the superintendent, certain items should not be discussed or voted on. He added
        that we are going to potentially have two meetings next week which includes one with the building committee and
        if something on this agenda needs to be voted on, we could do it after the meeting with the building committee. He
        agreed to vote on the letter to selectman and would amend his motion to include this but stated that he feels that
        with his lack of confidence in the superintendent, the Committee shouldn’t conduct any business that isn’t
        necessarily necessary.

        Ms. Schaeffner reminded the Committee that by the Unit A contract, the school calendar has to be voted on by
        January 31st.

        Ms. Tedford asked the Committee to have the Public Comment at the beginning of the meeting then follow agenda
        items noted by Mr. Harris.

        Ms. Schaeffner noted she would prefer to hold the public comment at the beginning to respect everyone’s time and
        to hear what the public has to say.

        Ms. Schaeffner noted that the FY19 budget discussion that is on the agenda includes a vote on the cuts that were
        mentioned and discussed at the last meeting and the FY20 budget discussion was going to be an update from the
        budget sub-committee meeting held earlier today.

        Ms. Taylor noted she has questions on the budget and is not comfortable about voting without discussion and
        questions to the administrators.

        Ms. Tedford restated the motion made by Mr. Harris which now includes voting on the Letter to the Selectmen on
        the Revolving Funds; BCG Building Update; Warrant Articles; White Water Rafting approval; and Public
        Comment. She asked for a vote for the motion on the floor. The Committee VOTED as follows: Mr. Harris-in
        favor; Ms. Schaeffner-in favor; Ms. Taylor-in favor; Ms. Gold-against; Ms. Tedford-against. The motion was 3-2
        and the motion carries.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                      1/24/2019


     Ms. Schaeffner made motion to hold the Public Comment at the beginning of the meeting. The motion was
     seconded by Ms. Gold. The Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

  2. Commendations
     none

  3. Public Comment
     Amy Ruocco, 227 Pleasant Street. Suggested that the district starts addressing the special education program
     problems and improve that Department.

     Rebecca Larson, 12 Amherst Road noted that she is reading a statement for Brenda Kim, 86 Clifton Ave. Brenda
     felt many students leave the district because our district doesn’t offer what some of our students need and want such
     as technical education or other opportunities that some private schools now offer.

     Sarah Fox, 46 Beach Street. Stated her frustration that no one from Central Admin was present at the meeting.

     Catherine Martin, 29 West Shore Drive. Thanked school committee for appearing and told the Committee that it is
     their responsibility to make a motion tonight to change the culture of backroom deals.

     Xhazzie Kindle, 163 Jersey Street. Stated she had many questions for the Superintendent and that contractually she
     should have been present at this meeting.

     Paul Baker, 42 Elm Street. Thanked the School Committee for being here and noted his disgust by the lack of
     administrators. He stated that the Committee has lost the confidence of the town, the finance committee and the
     community.

     Cindy Loewen, 12 Trinity Road. Stated she is a parent, volunteer, stake holder, SEPAC member, involved in
     METCO and other communities, search committees and site based for 18 years and as stakeholders has every right
     to ask questions. Administration needs to change in culture.

     Dr. Melissa Kaplowitch, 10 Camille Terrace. Has three children in system and thanked teachers who have taken
     care of her children and noted she appreciates them each day. Stated that the events that have taken place over the
     last several weeks were shameful and that it’s the Committee’s responsibility to be the leaders that they were
     elected to be. She urged the Committee to take action tonight.

     Rachel Selby, 58 Orchard Street. Read the vision and mission statement. Urged the Committee to take action
     against illegal actions of the administration and to not breach their responsibility.

     A community member asked if the superintendent is suspended, then what happens? Ms. Tedford explained that
     there is a process that has to be followed and the School Committee’s actions must adhere to this process.

     Ms. Schaeffner thanked everyone who attended and commented. She reminded the community that as a School
     Committee, they must adhere to all State and Federal laws regarding personnel confidentiality. We are required
     under law to discuss personnel discipline or performance in executive session with legal counsel and the person
     who is being discussed is allowed to attend and bring their legal counsel.
     Mr. Harris also thanked the community members in attendance. He stated that the Committee needs to hear from
     them at the School Committee meetings and also at the Building Committee meetings and the budget hearings but
     that they should please understand that the Committee needs to conduct the business before them and there will be
     public comment at other meetings as well. He noted that anyone can go online to the Attorney General’s web page
     and view the guide to the Open Meeting Law.

     Ms. Tedford noted that in terms of the administration not attending, it’s important to have respect and that there is
     another side to this and when criticism falls on the Superintendent, it also falls on her team as they are a unit.




                                                           2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                        1/24/2019

       Regardless of their lack of attendance here tonight, we as a committee have a responsibility to conduct business.
       This has been a difficult time for the community, the staff and the teachers and the School Committee recognizes
       this.

Taken out of order

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion item
   1. Building Committee Update
      Mr. Harris noted that we are at the stage where we have submitted the Schematic Design to the MSBA. We will be
      meeting with the MSBA on February 13, 2019 for their scope and budget. This Tuesday we had a scope and budget
      project review with the sub-committee of the MSBA and today we received comments from the MSBA that
      included three items. One recommendation was to remove the lift from the stage and replace it with a ramp; as well
      as two other small items. Our reimbursement rate, has gone up to 38.56% and that is to be formalized by the board
      on the 13th but this is the preliminary reimbursement rate we’ve been given. They reviewed all square footage
      that’s been submitted under the MSBA guidelines and we have less than 2000 sq. feet in the entire school that is not
      eligible for reimbursement which speaks volumes to the efficiency of the design. We will meet next Thursday for
      an update from the Office of Campaign Finance to see what we can and can’t do during the next phase to promote
      the project. Subject to change, but based on the information we received Tuesday, the estimated district share has
      decreased from forty-one million, ninety-three thousand to forty million, forty-five thousand.

    2. Budget Liaison Update
       Not discussed

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
    1. School Calendar 2019-2020
       This item was postponed for approval at another meeting.

    2. Senior White Water Rafting Trip (out of state & overnight)
       Ms. Schaeffner gave a brief description of this request as follows:
       Each year during Senior Week, some high school seniors take an overnight, out-of-state trip to New England
       Outdoor Adventure in Millinocket, Maine. They leave early on a Tuesday morning, stay overnight, go white water
       raft the next day and arrive back in Marblehead that evening. It is a good team building experience. The details are
       listed below:
       The trip is the annual senior trip to Millinocket, ME to go white water rafting. They will be leaving on June 4 at
       7:30 a.m. and driving to New England Outdoor Center in Millinocket. The students will have the afternoon to play
       lawn sports, kayak, canoe, swim, or just hang out. Students spend the night in cabins (heating, full bathrooms, etc.)
       on either the boys' or girls' side of the campsite, under the watchful eyes of the faculty chaperones. On Wednesday,
       the students will raft in the morning, eat lunch at the rafting site, and then load back in the buses for the drive
       home. We are back at MHS around 8:30 p.m. Last year's trip included 80 students and 10 faculty chaperones. The
       full cost of the trip to each student is $215, which covers all costs (food, lodging, rafting and equipment, etc.)
       excluding food or drinks at the rest stop. The rafting trip has been specifically designed for MHS, to be fun, but not
       overly challenging, as many students have not rafted before.

       Mr. Harris made motion to approve the Senior White Water Rafting Trip. The motion was seconded by Ms.
       Schaeffner and the Committee VOTED unanimously in 5-0, in favor.

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
       1. MHS Attendance Update
          Not discussed.

      2. Class Size Report Veterans and High School
         Not discussed.




                                                             3
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                       1/24/2019

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills
          a. new bill schedule protocol
             Not voted on.

    2. Kindergarten Tuition
       Not voted on.

    4. FY 20 Budget discussion
       Not discussed.

    5. Letter to Selectman on Revolving Funds
       Ms. Tedford noted that this is a standard item that needs to appear on the warrant each year. The letter reads as
       follows:
       Dear Ms. Belf-Becker and members of the Board of Selectmen;

       Please accept this letter as a request from the School Committee and School Department Administration to
       reauthorize the following revolving fund for fiscal year 2020.

       Special Education Revolving Fund
       In the amount of $950,000 in anticipated expenditures, in fiscal year 2020, for the use of School Committee
       authorized expenses within the scope and conditions pertaining to this fund.

       Revenue sources into this fund are from the following:
          • Tuition collected for special education students tuitioned-in to the Marblehead Public Schools Special
              Education Programming
           •    Funds collected, from outside districts or student/family agreement, to pay for additional special education
                contracted services for out of district special education students provided through the North Shore Special
                Education Consortium
           •    Proceeds or costs from approved special education public and private placements

       Said funds are to be expended on costs directly related to the Marblehead Public Schools special education
       programs directly servicing Marblehead students.

       Ms. Gold made motion to approve the letter to the Selectmen on Revolving Funds. The motion was seconded
       by Mr. Harris and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

    6. Discussion of Warrant Articles for Town Meeting
       Warrant articles
       Ms. Tedford noted that the language was written by Town Counsel but the School Committee must vote on adding
       these articles to the warrant. Board of Selectmen will determine the number of the article which is why there is a
       blank in the title of each article. Mr. Harris also noted that the dollar amount is included in the motion by
       Massachusetts law. Once we get that amount on February 13th from the MSBA, it will then be included in the
       motion that the Town Moderator makes.


       Article ____ on new school building
       Mr. Harris noted that this first article is for the new school to see if the Town will vote to appropriate, borrow or
       transfer from available funds, an amount sufficient to be expended under the direction of the Elbridge Gerry School
       Building Committee for the design and construction of a new Pre-K through Third Grade Elementary School with
       an approximate square footage of 81,935 square feet located at 40 Baldwin Road in Marblehead, Massachusetts
       inclusive of abatement and demolition of the existing school structures on said property; new parking lots, a multi-
       purpose field, and all other costs incidental and related thereto, which school facility shall have an anticipated
       useful life as an educational facility for the instruction of school children of at least 50 years, and for which the
       Town may be eligible for a school construction grant from the Massachusetts School Building Authority


                                                             4
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                    1/24/2019

   (“MSBA”). The Town acknowledges that the MSBA’s grant program is a non-entitlement, discretionary program
   based on need, as determined by the MSBA, and any project costs the Town incurs in excess of any grant approved
   by and received from the MSBA shall be the sole responsibility of the Town. Any grant that the Town may receive
   from the MSBA for the Project shall not exceed the lesser of (1) 37.08 percent (%) of eligible, approved project
   costs, as determined by the MSBA, or (2) the total maximum grant amount determined by the MSBA. Or take any
   other action relative thereto.

   A motion was made by Ms. Schaeffner to approve the Article for the new building. The motion was seconded
   by Ms. Gold and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

   Article______ Discontinue and Change of Use - Portion of Baldwin Road
   To see if the Town will vote to discontinue and abandon that portion of Baldwin Road, so called, as shown on a
   plan dated January 29, 1958 entitled “Baldwin Road Alteration”, including 5,176 square feet +/- and which said
   plan is on file in the office of the Town Clerk and further, that once the use thereof is changed from municipal use
   to school use under the care, custody and control of the School Committee for school purposes; or take any other
   action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Selectmen and School Committee.

   Mr. Harris noted that there is a knuckle at the lower Bell that the new school will be on. This article will address
   this issue. It will have no impact to the neighbors and was sponsored by the Board of Selectmen and School
   Committee.

   A motion was made by Ms. Schaeffner to approve the Article to discontinue and change use of a portion of
   Baldwin Road. The motion was seconded by Mr. Harris and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in
   favor.

   Article __ Sharing of Administrative Functions
   To see if the Town will vote to accept the provisions of Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 71, Section 37M and
   authorize consolidation of [administrative functions, including but not limited to financial, personnel, and
   maintenance functions] of the school committee with those of the town, provided that such consolidation only occur
   upon a majority vote of the School Committee and a majority vote of the Board of Selectmen, or take any action
   relative thereto.

   Ms. Schaeffner noted that this was received yesterday from the Town Administrator and in light of some recent
   actions, it was requested that the School Committee consider this article. She further explained that we would need
   to adopt this article, to follow Massachusetts General Law Part I, Title XII, Chapter 71, Section 37M, in order to
   begin discussion on consolidating administrative functions of Town and School departments such as financial,
   personnel, maintenance, or technology, between the Town and the School District. Any consolidation of functions
   would require a majority vote of the School Committee and the Board of Selectmen. This article would allow us to
   begin discussion.

   A motion was made by Mr. Harris to approve the Article of sharing administrative functions. The motion
   was seconded by Ms. Schaeffner for discussion.

   Mr. Harris stated that the idea would be for efficiencies and to save money for the Town where there might be
   duplication of effort between departments that could be combined. There may be areas of expertise in the School
   District that we could help the Town with and other areas that the Town could provide better services. There would
   be a sub-committee of both the School Committee and the Selectmen to discuss this. He noted that he believes we
   do have the opportunity for consolidation and people with more expertise. Ms. Taylor asked if there was time to
   consider this before voting on it. Ms. Schaeffner explained that if the Committee adopts this, it can go on the Town
   Warrant and it allows us to have these discussions. Then it would go for a vote of the School Committee and the
   Board of Selectmen.

   Ms. Gold asked if it’s passed tonight but in two months we don’t want to do this, what then? Ms. Tedford noted
   that just because this gets on the warrant it does not require us to consolidate. It allows us to begin discussion with
   the Town. She noted that the Town doesn’t have an HR Director and that could be one position that could work for
   both.


                                                         5
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                        1/24/2019


         Ms. Tedford asked for a vote for the motion on the table. The Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.


         ARTICLE___
         To see if the Town will raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum to supplement the School
         Department’s operating budget for Fiscal Year 2020, contingent upon the passage of a Proposition 2 ½ ballot
         question, or take any other action thereto.

         Ms. Tedford noted that she and Ms. Schaeffner received this language today which was generated by school
         counsel and they discussed it at the morning Budget Sub-Committee meeting. It would be sent to Town Counsel
         tomorrow if passed. In light of what has been in many public requests for increases in our budget, people are
         concerned that we don’t have enough money in our budget for items we have deferred over the years. This article
         would be to see if there is an appetite in the community for an override. This would serve as a placeholder.
         Over the next couple of weeks, as we discuss the FY20 budget, there may be a choice between two budgets-one that
         reflects an override and one that is level funded. This year the School Committee will hold the Budget Hearing on a
         separate night as a stand alone item.

         A motion was made by Ms. Gold to approve the Article considering Prop 2 ½ for supplemental monies for
         the schools. The motion was seconded by Ms. Schaeffner for discussion.

         Mr. Harris noted that in his experience on the Finance Committee, because of what we are talking about and that we
         haven’t done our budget yet, it would be usual and customary that this would be a place holder. He also
         made note that he is not in favor of a proposition 2 ½ for this reason but he wants to see the budget first and would
         be in favor of putting it on as a place holder. He believes it would be indefinitely postponed.

         The Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

    7. Town Report Submission
       a. Superintendent/SC Chairman Narrative
          Not discussed.


V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. BCG Building Update
      Taken out of order and given earlier in the meeting

    2.   Budget Liaison Update
         Not discussed

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
        Mr. Harris noted that in light of the recent audit and the illegal payment of FY18 Special Ed tuition with FY19
        funds, it has come before us and discussed in public meetings of the School Committee on January 16th, the
        Selectmen on January 17th, and with FinCom on January 22nd, which was also posted as a joint meeting with our
        budget liaison, whereas it has been discussed that this was an intentional violation of the compliance of
        Massachusetts General Law Chapter 44 Section 31, and school management lead and directed by Maryann Perry
        the Superintendent of Schools, intentionally withheld submitting tuition invoices during fiscal 2018 with the intent
        to charge the expenses to fiscal 2019, even though they knew they were 2018 expenses, he made a motion to
        schedule an executive session based on the requirements of Massachusetts Open Meeting Laws. We should vote
        this evening and be counted and this should be done as expeditiously as possible, he stated. Ms. Schaeffner
        seconded the motion and further noted that she has been working with the chair in trying to schedule a time with
        the school committee attorney, the superintendent and her attorney to this purpose.




                                                              6
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                      1/24/2019

          Ms. Schaeffner stated that there is a minimum of 48 business hours to post a meeting and that the meeting will
          have to accommodate the schedule of multiple people. The earliest that the Committee could convene would be
          Tuesday afternoon if everyone’s schedule coincides.

          Ms. Tedford asked for a vote for the motion on the floor which was that the Committee meet in executive session
          as expeditiously as possible. The Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

     B. Correspondence
        None

     C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn was made and the meeting adjourned at 8:37pm.

                                                                           Respectfully submitted,
                                                                           Sarah Gold
                                                                           Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
School Calendar 2019-2020
Senior White Water Rafting Trip
MHS Attendance Update
Class Size Report Veterans and High School
Schedule of Bills
new bill schedule protocol
Kindergarten Tuition
FY19 Budget discussion
Letter to Selectman on Revolving Funds
Discussion of Warrant Articles for Town Meeting
Town Report Submission
Superintendent/SC Chairman Narrative
School Committee Warrant Articles




  Approved 3/7/2019




                                                             7
