                           Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting Workshop
                                           Wednesday, January 16, 2019
                                             Marblehead High School

Members Present:                           Meredith Tedford, Jennifer Schaeffner, David Harris
                                           Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor

Also:                                      Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                           Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                           Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations
                                           Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                           Robert Bellucci, Dir. Of Student Services & Program Acct.

Members Absent:

A. Call to Order
   Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm.

  Ms. Tedford explained that tonight is a budget workshop. The Committee can only meet in public session and this is the
  only opportunity for the Committee to discuss this information so this is a working meeting of this board.

  Ms. Tedford asked her Committee if they desired to have public comment before this meeting. All agreed that public
  comment can occur before the meeting.

B. Public Comment
  Holly Willsey-Walker, 114 Atlantic Ave. Voice her disapproval of how we run our TIDES program.

  Ben Berman, 43 Crestwood Road, Chair of the Finance Committee. Spoke as a concerned citizen and asked that the
  narrative between the Town and the School change. It isn’t that the Town doesn’t support the schools or cuts the school
  budget but rather it’s simply about resolving the budget issue.

  Katie Martin, 29 West Shore Drive. Thanked the Committee for allowing public comment during their workshop. Is
  concerned about school department’s crisis lately. First the Gerry School, then the Bell garden and now a budget crisis.
  This shouldn’t be happening. Lack of leadership management and foresight.

  Sarah Fox, 46 Beach Street. Noted she supports the schools and funding for the schools. She feels the process wasn’t
  followed. She noted that the voters were denied the opportunity to increase funds for last year. Now this wrong needs to
  be corrected. We need to heal as a community and as a school. There needs to be repercussions.

  Jessica Schott, 2 Oak Circle. Is a Special Education Teacher herself and noted that she has a pro-active solution that
  would be free and that the Sped department needs a restructuring.

C. Budget
  Mr. Harris noted that the Committee will discuss budget transfers.

  Superintendent Perry stated that during the summer, $300,000 was put on a freeze on 600 lines in our budget to defray
  the deficit in the special education lines. Dr. Perry noted that it’s important to understand that these children are our
  children and deserve an education as much as any other child in the district. If they require residential, then they get it.
  These are our children. This was a year of extraordinary out-of-district placements. These are our children that we
  cannot provide adequate services for in district and it is our responsibility to place them where they need to be. We are
  not a medical facility and sometimes we need to keep them and others safe. That’s the reality of what we are dealing
  with. We have a hard freeze. Nothing is going to be spent. Money has been transferred to special education tuition out
  placement. We took $60,000 dollars from curriculum. Professional Development enables our teachers to teach.
  Professional Development is no longer happening and neither is the purchase of textbooks. Dr. Perry noted that she has
  had to deny professional development to her Special Education teachers this week. We hope the Town will approve a
  transfer of $350,000 to defray those expenses but that still leaves us with a deficit of $181,411.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                      1/16/2019

 We will present the Committee with $103,000.00 worth of cuts this evening and unless the School Committee directs me
 to make personnel cuts, I will not do it because teachers drive the district.

 Ms. Schaeffner noted that we find ourselves with a budget deficit and it is our responsibility to balance that budget. The
 first round of cuts/transfers was from curriculum and supplies based lines. The Town has proposed to approve a transfer
 of $350,000 and if approved that would leave us with $181,411 left to close. After we finish discussing this year’s
 budget, we will need to begin speaking about next year’s budget.

 The following is a tally totaling $103,136 from cuts/reductions in the FY19 operating budget lines into Special Ed
 Tuition

 Reviewed in School Committee workshop meeting 1-16-19. Transfer to be voted during the School Committee
 1-24-19 agenda.

 Salary line reductions/cuts – District wide ($50,412) Based on savings from employee changes, leaves, unfilled
 positions

 1. $24,713 - Savings from unfilled months of HS IEP Chair (now filled)

 2. $4,000 - Expense transfers of already expended substitute staffing funding for two special education professional
    staff on maternity leave into the IDEA grant. The IDEA grant cut a service contract with a special education
    service provider to absorb supply and substitute expenses from the operating budget to free funding for sped
    tuition

 3. $9,200 - Pro-rated savings from .2 FTE cut/reduction of Elementary Special Education Chair

 4. $7,411 - Savings from 2 months unfilled position

 5. $5,088 - Leave lunch student supervisor position unfilled for remainder of school year

 Expense line cuts/reductions Special Education Dept – District wide ($22,724)

 6. $9,824 - Reduced Endicott fellow count by 1 FTE

 7. $12,900 – From The following Special Education building and district supply lines:
    Coffin Special Ed Supplies ($400)
    Bell Special Ed Supplies ($1,100)
    Glover Special Ed Supplies ($1,300)
    Village Special Ed Supplies ($2,200)
    School Special Ed Supplies ($2,500)
    High School Special Ed Supplies ($3,200)
    K-12 District wide Special Ed Supplies ($2,200)
    Expense transfers of already expended special education building based supply lines back into the
    IDEA grant. The IDEA grant cut a service contract with a special education service provider (totaling $12,000) to
    absorb these supply expenses.

 Expense line cuts/reductions district wide curriculum/assessment ($5,000)

 8. $5,000 - Less grade level expansion of the Galileo assessment implementation – partial shift of existing Galileo
    licensure into instruction grants where possible (at the cut of planned instruction grant programming)

 Expense line cuts/reductions from Central Administration ($9,000)

 9. $5,000 - Reduction in expansion of services and central expenses over base annual contracts including interpretation
    services with BayState, School Spring licensing and usage, Aspen X2 and other district wide licensing runs through

MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                       1/16/2019

   this line

 9B. $4,000 - Freeze on supplies, paper, printing, postage (unless mandated hardcopy correspondence)

 Expense line cuts/reductions – building based - multiple schools ($16,000)

 10. $2,000 - Further reduction of Coffin School instructional supply/materials expense budget

 11. $1,000 - Further reduction of Village School instructional supply/materials expense budget

 12. $3,000 - Further reduction of Middle School instruction supply/materials expense budget

 13. $5,000 - Further reduction of High School instruction supply/materials expense budget

 14. $2,000 - Further reduction of Coffin School instruction supply/materials expense budget

 15. $3,000 - Further reduction of Glover School instruction supply/materials expense budget

 Superintendent Perry noted that some of these latest reductions will mean that science kits consumables will not be
 replaced. It will also impact textbook adoption and the expansion of social emotional learning curriculum. It slows down
 our progression.

 Ms. Taylor asked if one school’s budget is down to zero, can money from another school’s budget be transferred to the
 zero budget school? Ms. Maniaci said it could and that the principals are very good at helping one another if there is a
 need.

 Ms. Tedford explained that when you have a budget and need to balance it, there will be items that will be deferred.
 Unfortunately, deferring has been a cyclical problem for many years. We respect that there is a limit on funding but
 we feel like we have reached a tipping point because we are deferring too many needs.

 Ms. Schaeffner stated that we are talking about the FY19 budget and when we talk about FY20, we will need to discuss
 how to solve these issues because we will need the same amount plus more for out-of-district placements.

 Mr. Harris noted that he served on the Town Finance Committee for many years and he feels that we need to change the
 narrative. This town has a AAA rating. He noted that the town and schools have worked together in that the Town has
 created an energy reserve and a utility reserve. Last year the school liaisons went before the Finance Committee and they
 created a Special Education reserve. When there was a health insurance issue the Town figured out how to resolve the
 problem with a group insurance program. The Town found money to support the police department’s professional
 development. Mr. Harris stated that he believes we can work through this deficit and through next year’s budget. He
 appreciates the board for coming through with $350,000 to help us out.

 Ms. Tedford stated that the challenge she is faced with is that it is different than what she hears from parents. Challenge
 she continues to hear that parents are feeling that they are not getting what they expect from the school system. What
 does a Marblehead education look like? What resources are allocated for what we look for? When we talk about having
 to scrub items every year we can’t expect to be the top in education. The majority of budget goes to salaries and a small
 portion of the budget is discretionary. Ms. Tedford noted that as Mr. Harris mentioned last year, it was his hope that the
 school budget could cover the expense of all day kindergarten as well as athletics and after school clubs but our budget
 cannot handle this. Other districts that we compare ourselves to have many positions that we don’t have but our per pupil
 expenditure doesn’t compare to these districts we compare ourselves to.

 Ms. Taylor stated that while sitting in meeting this morning, she was very happy to see how positive the town is but she
 noted that Jason stated we will have a level funded budget next year and to do this exercise and only then will we see
 what areas will be impacted.

 Ms. Schaeffner noted that the Town has asked the other boards to look for a 10% cut in their budget but that is not what
 he was asking us. She said FY20 will become a much larger exercise because these cuts we are making will not be

MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                         1/16/2019

  restored unless there is a change.

  Ms. Tedford said the converse of that is a truly needs based budget.

  Ms. Gold feels FY20 will have a greater need because our student population has changed so quickly and that will be a
  challenge.

  Ms. Schaeffner noted that if the Committee approved the $103,000 cuts, we will still have a shortage of $78,275.
  That will mean that we will look at more potential cuts or look for additional revenue. Ms. Tedford noted that the
  challenge will be this last $78,275 and may mean possibly cutting positions.

  Mr. Bellucci explained that some of the expense is from students who get suspended. We are still obligated to educate
  them and parents often can ask for a special education evaluation and placement.

  Ms. Schaeffner noted that she has been involved with special education and that she has full confidence that the district is
  following the law and doing their best for all the students. It’s just that in addition to the added placements the services
  have also substantially increased in cost. Ms. Tedford noted that we have a responsibility to all our students and to meet
  all students’ needs and she is concerned on how to get to a place where we are responsible for all students.

  Ms. Tedford stated that the Committee will speak directly to the Superintendent with possible suggestions regarding the
  additional $78,275 deficit. Ms. Tedford also noted that the cuts ($103,136) presented this evening will be voted on at the
  next school committee meeting on January 24th. She told her Committee that she believes the Committee will need
  another budget sub-committee meeting before that date.

D.Minutes
  Minutes from the Joint Meeting with the BCG Building Committee December 13, 2018
  Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the minutes of the joint meeting between Marblehead School Committee and the
  BCG Building Committee of December 13, 2018. The motion was seconded by Mr. Harris and the Committee VOTED
  unanimously, 5-0 in favor.

E.New Business
  Ms. Schaeffner spoke to the copy of the Powers and Sullivan report and the response letter from Superintendent Perry as
  well as a backup to the response letter. She noted that this is all information that pertains to the SC and the District.
  There were several findings. The response from Superintendent Perry does push back on a couple of areas. The School
  Committee had discussions with the Finance Committee and the Town Finance Department has spoken to the State about
  this. Superintendent Perry has put in a phone call to the State to have a discussion and noted she called today but has
  received no response and will try again tomorrow. Ms. Schaeffner noted that we currently don’t know what the
  recommendation will be at this time. Mr. Harris noted he would like to be present when the Bureau of Accounts replies
  because we need a ruling on this so we can understand what exactly we’re doing going forward. Ms. Schaeffner noted
  that the remedy will affect the school budget and school administration.

  Ms. Taylor asked how she as a School Committee member would have known that invoices from one year were being
  paid in another year when she approves the schedule of bills. Nothing seems out of the ordinary on the schedules. Ms.
  Tedford said that if the line items are in the right areas, then it should mean they are being paid from the right place and
  that the Committee would not have known that bills were being paid from a different year. She further stated that this is
  an anomaly and that the Committee wouldn’t know that information.

  Mr. Harris stated that the Committee never voted on paying FY18 bills in FY19.

  Ms. Schaeffner stated that she will ask the State Bureau of Accounts for ideas on internal controls. She said that
  they will get guidance on how to modify reporting and will set up a call and invite the SC to attend and report back on the
  remedy.

MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                         1/16/2019

     C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn was made and seconded and the Committee VOTED to adjourn at 9:08 pm.

                                                                                   Respectfully submitted,
                                                                                   Sarah Gold
                                                                                   Marblehead School Committee

Documents:
Cuts/Transfers of $103,000
Minutes from the Joint Meeting with the BCG Building Committee December 13, 2018

Approved 2/7/2019

