                              Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                           Thursday, August 15, 2019
                                         Veterans Middle School Library

Members Present:                   Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Jennifer Schaeffner, David Harris, Sarah Fox

Also:                              William, H. McAlduff Jr., Interim Superintendent
                                   Daniel Bauer, High School Principal
                                   Michele Carlson, High School Assistant Principal
                                   Lynsey Page, High School Assistant Principal

Members Absent:


    I.   Initial Business

             A. Call to Order
                Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 4:35pm

    II. Consent Agenda & Action Items

             A. Schedule of Bills
                Ms. Gold made a motion to vote to close out FY19 schedule of bills totaling $16,062.27. The
                motion was seconded by Ms. Taylor and then also Mr. Harris. The committee VOTED
                unanimously, 5-0 in favor.

                 Ms. Gold made a motion to also vote to accept the transfer of funds to
                 cover: Student lunch expenses in the amount of $8,343.47, Title I Support Staff salaries in the
                 amount of $12, 098.94 and the Bell School faculty salaries in the amount of $31, 461.19. Ms.
                 Taylor agreed with the motion and the motion was seconded by David Harris. The committee
                 voted unanimously, 5-0 in favor.

    III. Retreat Agenda

             A. Transition Program Presentation
                Marblehead High School Principal Dan Bauer provided a brief introduction and background
                information for the -eight (8) week long BRYT Program (Bridge for Resilient Youth in
                Transition) presentation Assistant Principals, Michele Carlson and Lynsey Page presented.
                Principal Dan Bauer informed the School Committee that Marblehead High School was awarded a
                grant managed by DESE in the amount of $105,000 to improve student access to behavioral and
                mental health services. Principal Bauer noted that the grant in coordination with the BRYT
                Program model should help reduce the number and length of long-term absences due to
                bereavement, injury from concussions or other serious medical injuries and serious mental health
                challenges.

                 Ms. Carlson and Ms. Page presented a power point slideshow discussing the model of the BRYT
                 Program and the research they completed during the 2018 school year relating to its success in
                 other districts such as improved attendance rates and lowered out of district costs due to fewer out
                 of district placements. It was noted that the BRYT Program is an individualized program focusing
                 on the reintegration of students after a long-term absence, fourteen (14) plus school days. A series
                 of questions and answers followed pertaining to what supports would be in place for the student(s)
                 and how the success of the program would be tracked. Ms. Schaeffner noted that all new grants
                 should be mentioned as early as possible to the school committee so that there is advance notice
                 when considering building newly funded programs into future budgets.
    Mr. Harris made a motion to vote to accept the $105,000 grant awarded to the Marblehead High
    School to be used to fund the new BRYT Program. Ms. Taylor seconded the motion and the
    committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0 in favor.

    Ms. Gold noted that the School Committee would enter into the originally planned executive
    session at the end of the meeting and not before interviewing Ms. Michelle Cresta, finalist for the
    Director of Finance position.

B. Director of Finance Finalist Interview
   A finalist interview was held for the Director of Finance position with candidate, Michelle Cresta.
   Ms. Gold introduced Ms. Cresta to the committee members and the committee members began the
   final round of the interview process with a series of questions.

C. Subcommittee and Liaison Assignments
   Ms. Taylor discussed the subcommittee and liaison assignments for the 2019-2020 school year.
   Ms. Schaeffner mentioned that it would be nice to rotate assignments and that she felt there should
   be two (2) committee members on the facilities committee instead of having it alternate like the
   prior school year. An open discussion followed regarding merging Eveleth and Coffin into one
   school advisory council, S.A.C. The subcommittees and liaison assignments decided were:

    Budget Committee
    Sarah Fox/Meagan Taylor
    Policy Committee
    Jennifer Schaeffner/Meagan Taylor
    Safety Committee
    Sarah Gold/Sarah Fox
    B.C.G Building Committee
    Sarah Fox/David Harris
    Facilities Committee
    Sarah Fox/Jennifer Schaeffner
    Health/Wellness Committee
    Sarah Gold/Jennifer Schaeffner
    SEPAC
    Sarah Gold
    Liaisons to School Advisory Councils:
    Eveleth/Coffin- Sarah Fox and Jennifer Schaeffner
    Glover- Jennifer Schaeffner
    Village-Meagan Taylor
    Veterans- Sarah Fox
    High School- Sarah Gold

D. Superintendent Search Creation of Request for Services
   Superintendent McAlduff discussed the packets he presented the school committee which
   highlighted the reputable search firms that have been known to provide search services for
   Massachusetts based school committees.

    The five (5) consulting firms included amongst the packets were:
    MASC-Massachusetts Association of School Committees
    NESDEC- New England School Development Council
    HYA-Hazard, Young, Attea & Associates (HYA)
    FMS-Future Management Systems
    UMASS-Boston Collins Center for Public Management

    An open discussion took place regarding deadline dates for sending the request for services letter,
    receiving responses back and potential dates to hold an open meeting for presentations. It was
    determined that Tuesday, September 10th would be held for consultant search firm presentations.
        E. Appointment of Director of Finance
           A discussion regarding the appointment of Ms. Cresta as the Director of Business and Finance
           began. Superintendent McAlduff recommended appointing Ms. Cresta as the Director of Business
           and Finance due to her experience in both school and municipal finance and her positive reference
           reviews. Mr. Harris extended his gratitude to Superintendent McAlduff for the work he had
           completed to assist the school committee in reaching the finalist interview stages.

            Ms. Gold made a motion to vote to discuss the appointment of Ms. Cresta to the Director of
            Finance positon. Sarah Fox accepted the motion which was seconded by David Harris. The
            committee voted, 5-0 in favor.

            After an open discussion, Ms. Schaeffner made a motion to allow the Superintendent to negotiate
            a contract for the Temporary Director of Finance Position as recommended by the Superintendent.
            The motion passes 5-0 in favor.

        F. Acceptance of Temporary Director of Finance
           See motion from above

        G. BCG Building Project Update
           Naming Process
           Mr. Harris gave an update on the new elementary building project and shared that the next
           meeting is scheduled for September 12th
           Mr. Harris mentioned that the teacher input regarding the design layout has been helpful for the
           architects during the designing of the classrooms and placement of the restrooms. He also noted
           that the architectural invoices were behind and needed to be reviewed and approved at one of the
           next committee meetings.

            Ms. Schaeffner asked what the process for naming the school would be. She mentioned the
            importance of community input and a timeline for selecting a name. It was agreed upon by all
            committee members that the naming should be mindful of the historical importance of Marblehead
            and its residents. It was decided by the committee that the naming of the new elementary school
            would be added as an agenda item to be further discusses at a future school committee meeting.

IV. Closing Business

        A. New Business
           Superintendent McAlduff shared that a new METCO Director, Jasmine Boyd-Perry will begin on
           8/26/2019. He also shared that a
           A new S.R.O, Student Resources Officer, Andy Clark will start 9/19/19 to replace the former
           S.R.O, Teresa who was promoted to detective.

            Ms. Taylor mentioned the use of Styrofoam lunch trays and seeking out other alternatives. Ms.
            Gold mentioned collaborating with Food Services Director, Richard Kelleher and Sustainable
            Marblehead.

        B. Correspondence

        C. Enter into Executive Session
           At 7:43pm Ms. Gold made a motion move out of open session and enter into Executive Session
           pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws: Chapter 30 A, section 21 exemption number (2): to
           conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations for non-union personnel or to conduct
           collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with non-union personnel. With the intent
           to return to open session. Ms. Fox accepted the motion and it was seconded by Ms. Taylor. A roll
           call was taken and all committee members were present. The motion carries, 5-0 all in favor.
             At 8:05pm the committee moved back into open session and the meeting adjourned at 8:06pm



                                                                            Respectfully Submitted,
                                                                            Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                            Marblehead School Committee

Meeting Documents:
Schedule of Bills # 18373
Transition Program Documents
BRYT Program Presentation
Director of Finance-Finalist Resume
Former Subcommittee Liaison Assignments
Request for Services
Appointment Recommendation Memo
Building Project-Naming Guidelines




  Approved 10/22/2019
