                               Marblehead School Committee
                                      August 20, 2020
                                           7:00 PM
                Zoom Conference - Meeting ID 92705319141 & Password: 529634
      https://zoom.us/j/92705319141?pwd=ZWh3bXNwaGpLcjAyem4wcWxNaEZqUT09
                        Dial In (415) 762-9988 with ID and follow prompts
                                     Meeting ID 92705319141

I.       Initial Business
         Sarah Gold called the meeting to order at 7:03 pm
         No Public Comment
II.     Superintendent's Report

               a.     Reentry Update

                Dr. Buckey noted the Commissioner of Education and Governor had just
                released the requirement of flu vaccines for all students and staff. Dr. Buckey
                requested families be very honest while filling out their surveys for the remote
                versus hybrid choice. Dr. Buckey noted he was unable to get too deep into
                specifics of what hybrid and remote looked like without knowing the results of the
                surveys and how many students each model would be servicing. Dr. Buckey
                stated the listening session recordings and FAQ notes as prepared by principals
                had been posted to the backtogethermhd website.

                Dr. Buckey noted the color coding system and the current numbers are
                continually changing and he wanted to make sure the district has a solid plan for
                success prior to bringing back students in person. Dr. Buckey noted he was able
                to get the youngest learners back to in person learning sooner than third through
                twelfth grades.

                Dr. Buckey discussed the importance of mask wearing and noted the district
                has obtained masks for all students and staff with the Marblehead logo. Dr.
                Buckey congratulated the community on the back pack drive and meeting the
                goal set.

            b. 20-21SY Calendar Revisions

                Dr. Buckey noted the Calendar would stay very similar. September 14 will be the
                first day of school and the last day will be June 14. Dr. Buckey stated the
                transition dates would be published for when students can transition between
                hybrid and remote if they chose.

                Dr. Buckey thanked Kate Thomson for all the communications work and
                noted he felt very good about all the communications accomplishments

                Dr. Buckey noted he wanted to have the reopening subcommittees share the
                work they are doing.
Meagan Taylor thanked Dr. Buckey for a great solution for the early learners and
for clarifying how the first three weeks of remote would be used for training the
students on the various platforms. Dr. Buckey noted he is getting a lot of outreach
from parents asking how to best support students at home and noted helping
parents with this would be part of the first three weeks.

Ms. Fox asked for clarification if families could move from hybrid to remote if they
started to feel hybrid was not working for them particularly for safety issues. Dr.
Buckey stated this would need to be on a case by case basis.

Ms. Fox asked if we could allow remote teachers to teach from home to free up
classroom spaces, allow a safer environment for teachers who chose that method
due to health risks and also to show the remote students that their teachers were
also in similar situations to them. Dr. Buckey stated he was working out how this
would be determined but that it was his hope that the majority of remote teachers
would be teaching from the schools. Ms. Fox asked for clarification regarding
quarter vs trimester transition points and Dr. Buckey stated it would align with how
the various schools broke down their year with report cards.

Nan Murphy presented an update on the teaching and learning subcommittees.
Ms. Murphy noted her pleasure with the work that had been done in only 7 weeks.
Ms. Murphy shared the drivers for decision making. Ms. Murphy noted the
subcommittee had further broken down into 6 more subcommittees. Ms. Murphy
noted there would be a parent support section. Ms. Fox noted she felt the process
had been very collaborative to date.

Todd Bloodgood gave a facilities subcommittee update. Mr. Bloodgood noted the
district was in the process of adding different mechanisms to better control the
outside air dampers, had contracted a company for indoor air quality testing, and
noted the testing company strongly recommended testing prior and again after the
buildings are occupied by staff and students. Mr. Bloodgood noted air purifiers had
been obtained for the nurses offices as well as signage for social distancing and
mask requirement. Mr. Bloodgood noted he was still working on getting tents for the
schools. Mr. Bloodgood stated some staff had already been fitted for N95 but
special educators and bus monitors still needed their fittings. Mr. Bloodgood noted
the bubblers would be shut off and water bottles would be available for students
who did not bring their own full bottle to school. Mr. Bloodgood also gave an update
on bus capacity. Ms. Taylor asked when the new bus would be delivered and Mr.
Bloodgood replied he is estimating delivery in mid-November. Ms. Fox asked if Mr.
Bloodgood was confident we could transport all students until the new bus arrives
in mid-November. Mr. Bloodgood noted he was still working on timing issues but he
would be able to. Ms .Fox also asked if we would have dedicated bus drivers as we
have utilized custodians as bus drivers in the past and was concerned with an
increased demand on custodians this would be a potential issue. Mr. Bloodgood
noted the district only had one dedicated bus driver and all others served as both
custodians and bus drivers. Ms. Fox also wanted to clarify that a message should
be released that all students should come to school with a full reusable water bottle
from home and the single use bottle provided at school would be only for
emergencies when a child does not have a water bottle from home.
Kathleen Hennessey gave a technology update. Ms. Hennessey stated the
technology committee had looked at 12-15 different software packages and was
polling teachers to come up with a standard list of platforms for students. Ms.
Hennessey noted the committee had looked at four key areas: software, hardware,
technical support and professional development. Ms. Hennessey noted hardware is
backordered and the technology department would get the devices inventoried,
configured and distributed as soon as possible. Ms. Hennessey stated she was
trying to get bandwidth requirements calculated. Ms. Fox thanked Ms. Hennessey
for all the extra work she and her team had been doing and asked if the Technology
committee could release an FAQ with guidelines for families about any internet
requirements to maximize results for remote learning. Ms. Hennessey noted they
were working on those calculations and would be getting that information out. Ms.
Taylor stated she was very happy to see standardizations of learning platforms and
parent training. Ms. Gold noted the Clever program provided a lot of promise. Ms.
Barron said the tech support portal was a must and asked if there was a way for
parents to email in questions for immediate support.

Deanna McMahon gave an update on health and safety. Ms. McMahon noted the
district was using the CDC, local and state board of health standards to set
guidelines and the committee was currently working on a daily safety health
checklist as well as a FAQ. Dr. Buckey noted the guidance was recently updated
by the state and no longer would all students in a class be quarantined for 14 days
but rather the new guidelines state contact tracing would only occur for individuals
who were closer than 6 foot for 15 minutes or more would lead to the 14
quarantine requirement. Ms. Fox noted she felt the new requirements were very
grey when children are moving through the classroom. Ms. Fox also noted that
currently contact tracing was voluntary and asked if the schools could perform the
contact tracing and notify individuals without the permission of the infected person
or their guardian. Ms. McMahon replied that the board of health would be handling
contact tracing as they have been but the school nurses would be working with
them, Ms. McMahon did confirm a person could refuse to participate in contact
tracing.

Richard Kelleher gave a food services update. Mr. Kelleher noted two kitchens
would be opened and food would be delivered to the various buildings. Students
and parents could pick up meals midday based on orders placed via a google form
developed by the committee. Mr. Kelleher noted no cash transactions would be
accepted.

Greg Ceglarski gave an update on the activities and athletics. Mr. Ceglarski stated
new guidance was released the day prior for fall athletics. Mr. Ceglarski noted
MIAA created a covid-19 task force and were releasing recommendations. Three
major areas of concern: transportation, student safety and ways to prevent
coaching from becoming police officers. Mr. Ceglarski noted a second fall season
was introduced which will start in February. Mr. Ceglarski noted he would be
meeting with other league AD to discuss how other schools in the league would
be progressing. Ms. Fox commended Mr. Ceglarski for providing equity in the
discussion between athletics and the arts.

Ms. Fox asked when or if Dr. Buckey would be releasing results of the survey as it
pertains to hybrid versus remote. Dr. Buckey replied he would be releasing the
information mid-week after the survey closes on Friday.
             Ms. Gold asked for a motion to approve the first day of school being
             September 14, 2020, and the last day being June 14, 2020, with no snow
             days.

             The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor

             Sarah Fox seconded the motion.

             Ms. Fox asked if the snow days had been deemed not necessary to make up. Dr.
             Buckey noted DESE had not released guidance on this yet, Ms. Taylor asked if
             parent conference days had been switched, Dr. Buckey noted there was no
             change.

             Roll call vote was taken

             Sarah Gold                       Yes
             Emily Barron                     Yes
             David Harris                     Yes
             Meaghan Taylor                   Yes
             Sarah Fox                        Yes

             The motion passed 5-0

             Ms. Fox clarified this was simply a vote for the first and last day of school and
             did not take the place of a discussion regarding revising the school calendar.

III. Finance organization support

             Schedule of Bills

             Motion was made to approve the schedule of bills totaling

             $94,726.32

             The motion was moved by Meaghan Taylor

             Sarah Fox seconded the

             motion.

             Roll call vote was taken

         Sarah Gold                           Yes
         Emily Barron                         Yes
         David Harris                         Yes
         Meaghan Taylor                       Yes
         Sarah Fox                            Yes

         The motion passed 5-0

  III.   School Committee communications and/or discussions

 a.      Operating protocols
         Meagan Taylor presented a revision of operating protocols and noted the three changes
made as result of discussion at the school committee retreat. Ms Taylor noted she
removed a sentence from the “how we govern” section” Ms Taylor noted she made an
adjustment to the communications section regarding the social media section noting
MASC social media guidelines would be used. Ms Taylor also noted the “how we
communicate” section had been discussed at length. Ms Taylor stated she changed
channeling requests for information from town officials through the superintendent and or
the chair to just the superintendent.

Sarah Gold asked for a motion to adopt the standards of practice, norms and protocols.

The motion was moved by Meaghan Taylor.
David Harris seconded the motion.

Ms Fox asked what sentence had been removed. Ms Taylor answered it was a
sentence pertaining to one person not monopolizing the discussion.

Ms Fox noted she was uncomfortable with the need to channel information from town
officials through the superintendent. Ms Fox noted, as town citizens and elected officials
she wanted to be able to speak with Town officials when needed. Ms Fox also noted
that a lot of work had been done in the last year to improve school and town relations
and she felt this was creating silos and separating school and town officials. Ms Taylor
replied she felt our current situation with a solid administration was the correct time to
put proper protocols in place and the superintendent should be aware of all discussions
with the town. Ms Gold agreed with Mr Taylor and noted the new protocols were a way
to put trust back in place. Ms Fox noted concern that through adding extra lessons we
were becoming less efficient and suggested the protocol be to loop the superintendent in
on information requested and obtained rather than using them as an intermediary and
thus adding multiple steps to what often is a simple question and answer. Ms Fox noted
the education reform act and how the budget is the responsibility of the School
Committee and therefor we should be performing our own due diligence when
necessary. Ms Fox noted this one section was a sticking point for her. Ms Gold noted
she could understand Ms Fox’s point and that if things did not proceed well we could
revisit at a later date. Ms Gold noted we need to return to the statewide protocols
suggested by MASC. Ms Fox noted MS Gold made a great point about MASC and
noted our former protocols were sources directly form MASC and what is being
proposed has doubled them which she found concerning. Mr Harris noted he was not
concerned about the new protocols impeding relationships with town officials. Mr Harris
noted if a member found themselves on a subcommittee they may find they have more
direct access to necessary town officials. Ms Gold noted it is important as questions are
asked that all School Committee knows the question and answer. Ms Barron noted she
helped Ms Taylor put together the proposed protocols and as she is new to the
committee she did some research, finding many other districts have a similar protocol.

Ms Gold called for a roll call vote.

Sarah Gold                             Yes
Emily Barron                           Yes
David Harris                           Yes
Meaghan Taylor                         Yes
Sarah Fox                              No

The motion passed 4-1
    Ms Fox noted it was the language asking all communication with town officials to pass
through the superintendent that was the sticking point.

   b. Website update

       Sarah Gold presented the proposed new School Committee website. Ms Gold noted
       Kate Thomson had originally reached out to the School Committee with her ideas for
       communication and stated Ms Taylor and Ms Gold had taken Ms Thomson up on her
       offer to develop a website mock up specifically for the School Committee. Ms Gold
       noted there would be a calendar where all meetings are listed including sub
       committees.
       Ms Gold noted she had asked Ms Thomson about potential for push notifications and
       stated Ms Thomson cautioned this could inundate people's mailboxes with small
       changes. Ms Gold noted the proposed School Committee website could be a direct link
       from the School District’s website.

       Ms Fox asked if there would be a way for people to sign up for specific notifications, for
       example finance meetings. Ms Gold stated she was unsure but agreed it would be a
       good idea and she would look into it.

       Meaghan Taylor thanks Ms Thompson for facilitating the website development. Ms
       Taylor asked for a target live date for the site. Ms Gold stated she hoped to roll out the
       site this fall and noted if we are not controlling the information than someone else
       would. Ms Taylor offered to work with Ms Thompson to have a more solid plan for the
       next meeting. Ms Gold noted the site may want to become another superintendent's
       advisory committee.

       Ms Fox noted the calendar would be an opportunity to hold office hours and be more
       accessible to the community. Ms Fx offered, as secretary to work with Ms Thomspon to
       facilitate getting the site setup. Ms Gold noted she wanted to have Ms Taylor work on
       the website development as it had been Ms Taylor's campaign slogan but noted after it
       was up and running it should be discussed again who would be in charge. Ms Gold
       suggested at that point duties of updating the site be assigned to a position rather than
       individual so as committees change nothing gets lost in translation.

   c. Subcommittee & Liaison Discussion

       Ms Gold noted she was making some changes and had suggestions for subcommittees
       based on conversations members had with Ms Gold offline.

       Ms Gold noted collective bargaining was added as a subcommittee. Ms Gold also noted
she took health and wellness out as a subcommittee and made it a Superintendent’s advisory
as she had last year with Mr McCaulduff.

       Ms Gold made the following recommendations including recommending who the chair of
each subcommittee should be.

              Budget                         Meaghan Taylor (chairman) and David Harris
               Collective bargaining         Sarah Gold (chairman) and Meaghan Taylor

               Facilities                    Sarah Fox (chairman) and Emily Barron

               Policy                        Sarah Gold (chairman) and Emily Barron

       Ms Fox noted she wanted to be on the Budget subcommittee and felt she had been a
       bug asset the previous year on that subcommittee. Ms Fox noted she had been
       responsible for several ideas that were utilized to reduce our budget ask from the town in
       lieu of using the FY20 budget surplus therefore saving the town money while not cutting
       anything from the School budget. Ms Fox stated she had a tremendous understanding
       of our budget and noted she had tutored and explained the budget to great depth to Ms
       Taylor and Ms Gold during the FY19 budget crisis. Ms Fox noted she felt very strongly
       she wanted to be on the budget subcommittee. Ms Gold agreed with Ms Fox and noted
       the decision was not a reflection of Ms Fox’s capabilities but that Ms Harris and Ms
       Taylor had expressed an interest. Ms Fox stated she was unaware that Committee
       members were supposed to send Ms Gold their interests in subcommittees and
       apologized for that. Ms Taylor noted Ms Fox was a key player in the previous year but
       that going into FY21 and planning for a potential override Ms Taylor felt she and Mr
       Harris had a financial background and Mr Harris had Fincom experience and supported
       switching up the seats. Ms Fox reiterated she had a very strong grasp of the finances of
       the school and town. Ms Fox noted she had been the one to inform the superintendent
       and finance director of an additional $680,000 by staying current with the latest revenue
       sources. Ms Fox noted she saw no logical reason for her removal from the finance
       subcommittee and felt the decision was personal. Ms Gold noted she was sorry if it felt
       politically motivated. Mr Harris stated it is common to rotate members on various
       subcommittees and he welcomed the opportunity to participate in the budget this year
       and his 11 years on the finance committee and welcomed the opportunity to get the
       funding needed for our schools. Ms Fox asked Ms Taylor if she would consider yielding
       her seat as Mr Harris made a good point regarding his time on FINCOM. Ms Taylor
       stated she appreciated the request but this was the one committee she was most
       interested in and noted she had a significant background in economics, finance and
       budgeting.

       Ms Gold stated the other appointment requiring a vote would be the joint school
       committee and town representation under the MOU. Ms Gold noted the building
       committee had always been a subcommittee of the school committee but felt it was not
       appropriate as building committees usually sit at the board of selectmen level. The
       following was Ms Gold’s recommendation:

               MOU representative            Sarah Gold and Meaghan Taylor

       Sarah Gold asked for a motion to accept the recommendations for the subcommittee
representatives on budget, collective bargaining, facilities, policy and the joint school town
committees of building committee and Selectmen MOU committee.

       Ms Fox asked who was appointed to policy. Ms Gold answered herself and Ms Barron.

       Meaghan Taylor moved the motion.
       Mr Harris seconded the motion.

       Ms Fox noted she had been taken off all but one of the committees she previously sat
on.

       Ms Fox asked to please reconsider her seat on the budget subcommittee and all the
       multitude of savings she has identified in the previous year. Ms Fox noted she had been
       the only member to voice concern at the budget hearing that Kindergarten tuition would
       be lost and the need to plan accordingly. Ms Gold stated she did not know how many
       other ways to state these were simply the delinations for this year and that the decision
       was not a reflection of Ms Fox’s lack of knowledge and noted everyone brings many
       assets to the table.

       Ms Gold took a roll call vote.

              Sarah Gold                Yes
              Emily Barron              Yes
              David Harris              Yes
              Meghan Taylor             Yes
              Sarah Fox                 No

       The motion carried 4-1.

        Ms Gold noted the superintendent’s advisories did not require a vote as did neither the
liaison positions. Ms Gold made the following recommendations.

              Safety                          Sarah Fox
              Health and Wellness             Sarah Gold
              Reopening Committee             Sarah Gold
              Communications                  Meghan Taylor

       Sarah Fox asked to confirm if she was also pulled off the joint town and school MOU
       committee. Ms Gold confirmed and stated she thought it best for the chair of the school
       committee and budget subcommittee to be on that. Ms Gold asked Ms Fox if she was
       comfortable being on the safety committee and Ms Fox responded the committee had
       never met the previous year so was unsure what it entailed. Ms Gold noted it had not
       met the 2018-2019 school year either but that it was a standing advisory. Dr Buckey
       noted in current times he foresaw the safety committee being pivotal.

       Ms Gold stated in the past School Committee members had always been represented
       on the School Advisory Councils. Ms Gold asked Dr Buckey to speak of his experience
       with SACs. Dr Buckey noted that he has never seen school committee members
       assigned to SACs. Ms Taylor said she enjoyed the SAC more than any other meeting
       but felt it was a window in to see what is going on in the school. Nan Murphy stated she
       had not been in a district that had school committee members on SAC’s either. Ms Fox
       noted we often hear “Things are not done this way outside Marblehead” and also stated
       she has continuously served on a SAC for 6 years, the majority of which was as a
       community member. Ms Fox noted she felt as a community member it was very
       beneficial to have a school committee member on the SAC as it showed our school
       committee members were very vested in each individual school. Ms Fox noted she
       always felt School Committee reps on these committees were also respectful of not over
       influencing the SAC but rather felt very collaborative. Ms Fox noted it rare to see School
       Committee members, administrators, teachers and parents working collaboratively on a
       single committee towards a common goal and is a model that has served us well. Ms
       Gold noted Dr Buckey had spoken to her previously about this so she had some more
       time to form her thoughts and yet did not currently have strong feelings in one direction.

       Dr Bucky noted the School Advisory Council issue was not a significant one to hi but felt
       there may be better ways for School Committee members to be part of what is
       happening in the buildings. Mr Harris stated he appreciated Dr Buckey’s point and felt
       removed currently as his son had graduated. Mr Harris stated as it has been a past
       practice for school committee participation if we could table the discussion rather than
       doing away with the role right now. Ms Taylor questioned if it would be an easier
       conversation is we had a better idea how School Committee building level engagement
       would look moving forward. Mr Gold stated she felt herself or someone else should
       meet with Dr Buckey to discuss possibilities or other options and present those options
       at time schools are opening. Ms Taylor asked for thoughts from building leadership. Ms
       Barron stated this information would be helpful as she had never attended a School
       advisory council meeting. Ms Gold asked who would like to work with Dr Buckey. Ms
       Taylor nomicated Ms Barron to work on this. Mr Harris also asked for a check in with
       Dorothy Presser for guidance. Ms Gold stated she would bring this back to the second
       regularly scheduled School Committee meeting in September. Ms Fox asked for
       clarification on what Ms Barrons would be presenting. Ms Gold stated Ms Barron would
       be presenting alternative options for School Committee involvement in the community
       and the Committee would then decide if we wanted to adopt a new option or continue
       with the current role on the School Advisory Councils.

       Ms Gold stated Ms Taylor was interested in being the SEPAC representative and MS
Barron was interested in being the METCO representative.

       Ms Fox asked if she had missed when everyone was self nominating for roles as she
       thought the intention was to discuss everyone's interests in an open meeting. Ms Taylor
       noted any member could call the chair at any point. Ms Gold asks if everyone was ok
       with the roles as suggested. Ms Taylor noted she was very excited to be part of SEPAC
       again and Ms Barron responded she was happy to take on METCO. Ms Taylor told Ms
       Barron she could introduce Ms Barron to the METCO leadership.

   d. Policy EBCFA Face Coverings

   Ms Gold noted that typically a policy is required to be read through several times but in this
   circumstance it was not necessary. Ms Gold noted she sought guidance from legal council
   who suggested changing “face coverings” to “face masks” and noted she would make that
   change. Ms Gold read Policy EBCFA aloud.

    Ms Barron asked if gators would be allowed. Ms Gold responded gators did not meet the
policy as written. Ms Barron noted this should be communicated specifically with families.

   Ms Gold called for a motion to approved policy EBCFA.

   Mr Taylor moved the motion.
   Ms Barron seconded the motion.

   Mr Harris asked why 10’ was listed as the distancing requirement. Mr Harris asked if the
   policy applies to staff and everyone. Ms Taylor replied it applies to everyone. Mr Harris
   asked is a single person with a private office was required to wear a mask while alone. Dr
   Buckey noted the 10’ was revised guidance from DESE regarding specialty courses. Ms
   Gold noted the Marblehead Board of HEalth gave guidance regarding distancing during
   mask breaks. Dr Buckey noted that the private office was challenging but as the policy is
   written now that would be required. Ms Gold stated in a school building people come in and
   out of offices frequently and to ensure safety it is best to have everyone masked at all
   times. Dr Buckey agreed with Ms Gold. Ms Gold noted Deanna McMahon and the
   Marblehead BOH also reviewed the policy.

   Ms Gold took a roll call vote.

      Sarah Gold              Yes
      Emily Barron            Yes
      David Harris            Yes
      Meaghan Taylor          Yes
      Sarah Fox               Yes

   The motion carried 5-0.

   e. Building project update

      Mr Harris shared images of the current new school building site. Mr Harris noted the
      utilities were installed in July and concrete is being poured. Mr Harris estimated
      concrete pouring would be complete within a week. Mr Harris noted steel erection had
      begun. Mr Harris spoe about the topping off ceremony and having students and
      committee members sign a steel beam. Ms Taylor thanked Mr Harris for an excellent
      update. Ms Barron encouraged the public to drive past the site and watch what is
      happening on site.

V. Closing Business

      Sarah Fox made a commendation to the staff who is going above and beyond to work
      this summer on the reopening committees. Ms Fox noted many are working out of
      contract, volunteering their time and are doing it out of love for our schools and
      students. Ms Fox said she was very appreciative of all of the staff. Ms Taylor agreed.

      Sarah Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:55 pm.

      Approved 11/5/2020
