                          Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                   Thursday September 10, 2020 6:30pm
    Zoom Conference Call- https://zoom.us/j/96153675023?pwd=bkcvMFJPZzlqZkQxdVArSHNBNDlkUT09
                                       Meeting ID: 961 5367 5023
                                             Password: 438680
                             OR Dial In (415) 762-9988 and follow the prompts

Members Present:                            Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Emily Barron, David Harris
                                            and Sarah Fox

Also:                                       Dr. John J. Buckey-Superintendent
                                            Nan Murphy-Assistant Superintendent

I. Initial Business and Public Involvement
  1. Call to Order
     Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 6:33pm.
  2. Public Comment
     None

II. School Communication and Discussion Items
    1. Approval of Policy Changes
        Ms. Gold informed the committee that both of the policies on the agenda were recently looked at during a
        policy subcommittee meeting scheduled on Friday September 4th.
       a. Sexual Harassment Policy-Policy ACAB
           Superintendent Buckey explained that policy ACAB which discussed sexual harassment was being
           updated to accommodate for changes to the Title XI reporting processes and procedures at the federal
           level sharing that national policies affected local ones. It was mentioned that a vote would be required at
           the meeting scheduled on September 17th.

            Ms. Gold read part of the policy aloud until Mr. Harris confirmed that the district policy for reviewing
            and revising policies (policy BGC) did not require a public reading of the policy. He further clarified as
            the policy referenced that 1) information would need to be provided, 2) a policy discussion needed to take
            place and 3) action items such as an adoption or rejection of the discussed policy needed to occur.
            Although no formal vote was taken, it was decided that Ms. Gold could refrain from reading the remaing
            pages in the policy and move on to discuss the next agenda item.
        b. Approval of Supplemental Policies on COVID -related issues (Policy EBC
           Supplemental)
           Ms. Gold explained that the EBC policy would be adopted for the time of COVID and would be rescinded
           once it was no longer needed. She further shared that approving just one policy instead of the more than
           thirty (30) policies that could be affected by COVID would make the process easier in the long run.

            Ms. Gold noted that the policy would be voted on at the meeting on the 17 th.
   2.    Approval of Handbooks
         Ms. Gold reminded the committee that the vote to approve the handbooks was tabled to allow for more time
         to understand the COVID related policy issues that could affect school attendance at the high school. She
         explained that the vote would be to approve the Pre-K, Veterans and the High School Handbooks.

         Ms. Gold made a motion to accept the high school handbook changes for the 2020 and 2021 school year as
         well as the changes for the Pre-k through 6th and the Veterans handbook. The motion was moved by Ms.
         Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken and the motion carried, 5-0 all in favor.
         Ms. Gold-yes
         Ms. Taylor-yes
         Ms. Fox-yes
         Mr. Harris-yes
         Ms. Barron-yes
  3. Approval of Memorandum of Agreement with the Marblehead Education Association
     Ms. Gold asked for a motion to approve and accept the memorandum of agreement with
     the Marblehead Education Association for the reopening of schools. The motion was
     moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron.

    Ms. Fox voiced her concerns regarding staff spacing concerns and her feelings regarding
    remote approval to work from home which could allow for more than ample staff spacing.

    Both Ms. Gold and Mr. Harris agreed that all space considerations had been investigated
    and addressed through multiple building walkthroughs and planning.

    Superintendent Buckey praised the staff for making the return to school during such a
    difficult time feel special and inviting.

    A discussion regarding the childcare section of the agreement took place and it was agreed
    that it was an important part of the agreement that staff would appreciate.

    A roll call vote was taken and the motion passed, 5-0 all in favor.
    Ms. Gold-yes
    Ms. Taylor-yes
    Ms. Fox-yes
    Ms. Barron-yes
    Mr. Harris-yes

   Superintendent Buckey thanked the MEA, Assistant Superintendent Nan Murphy and all of
   the staff for all of their collaboration to be able to begin school on the 14th.

   A conversation regarding the best way to get information out to the community took place
  and it was confirmed that the www.backtogethermhd website was the best source along with
  reaching out to the individual building principals.

III. Adjournment
   Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 7:24pm.
                                                                                    Respectfully Submitted
                                                                                    Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                                    Marblehead School Committee

Approved October 29, 2020
