                                Marblehead School Committee
                                          July 8, 2020
                                            7:00 PM
                 Zoom Conference - Meeting ID 97388102759 & Password: 672894
      https://zoom.us/j/97388102759?pwd=MVNJZGtRSGJJSzlDVGRNVG0vNEZvdz09
                         Dial In (415) 762-9988 with ID and follow prompts
                                      Meeting ID 97388102759

I.Initial Business

             1. Sarah Gold called the meeting to order at 7:03 pm

                 2.     Commendations

                 Sarah Fox made a commendation to Samantha Rosetto for organizing the
                 Go fund me drive that allowed the free lunch program to continue through the
                 summer.

 3.       Public Comment

                 Alastar Conner noted questions regarding fall reentry and the possibility of
                 reduced hours and outdoor classrooms.

                 Erin Noonan, 15 Beverly Ave. Ms Noonan commented regarding extended year
                 services. Ms Noonan noted this week approximately 200 students started
                 receiving summer services, the vast majority of whom are starting with remote
                 learning. Ms Noonan commended Eric Oxford for all the work he is doing and
                 acknowledged the many obstacles facing the district. Ms Noonan stated remote
                 learning is suboptimal for all students but profoundly inadequate for the special
                 education students receiving summer services. Ms Noonan asked that the goal
                 of everyone be to transition the extended year students to in person learning as
                 soon as possible.

                 Scott Solberg, 1 Ramsey Rd. Mr Solberg welcomed Dr Buckey on behalf of the
                 SEPAC.

   II.   Consent Agenda and Action Items
            1. Motion to appoint Superintendent, Dr John Buckey to the Building Committee

                 The motion was moved by David Harris
                 Meagan Taylor seconded the motion.

                 Roll call vote was taken

                 Sarah Gold                           Yes
                 Emily Barron                         Yes
                 Meagan Taylor                        Yes
                 David Harris                         Yes
                 Sarah Fox                            Yes
             The motion passed 5-0

             2.     Motion to appoint Dr John Buckey as the district’s representative to the
             Northshore Education Consortium Board

             The motion was moved by Meagan Taylor
             Sarah Fox seconded the motion.

             Roll call vote was taken

             Sarah Gold                           Yes
             Emily Barron                         Yes
             Meagan Taylor                        Yes
             David Harris                         Yes
             Sarah Fox                            Yes

             The motion passed 5-0

III.   Superintendent Report

             1. Reentry Update

             Dr Buckey thanked Ms Noonan for her thoughtful comments on the extended
             year program and agreed that Eric Oxford has been working very hard.

             Dr Buckey acknowledged Bill McAlduff for his invaluable work over the past
             year and noted Mr McCaulduff has offered to continue to be a source of
             support.

             Dr Buckey noted the district is exactly where it should be in the reentry process
             and noted DESE continues to release new guidelines and is cautioning districts
             from releasing plans yet. Dr Buckey noted the school department currently has a
             document laying out the path for establishing the reentry plan which he will be
             releasing to the public later in the week. Dr Buckey commended the building
             principals for the work they are doing to establish their buildings capacity and
             needs. Dr Buckey stated he had been in contact with Jason Silva regarding the
             idea of purchasing PPE as a group with other towns. Dr Buckey noted he had
             shared the framework for the reentry planning with the school committee which
             would include the main reopening committee with eight subcommittees under
             it.

             Dr Buckey noted DESE is asking districts to consider three options: a full in
             person model, full remote and a hybrid model. Dr Buckey stated the hybrid
             model makes everyone the most nervous and presents the most challenges. Dr
             Buckey noted DESE will be much more involved in remote learning and will
             provide options to districts that he felt would be very beneficial.

             Meagan Taylor stated she currently did not have specific questions but thanked
             Dr Buckey for laying the plan out in a very thoughtful manner.
David Harris asked Dr Buckey to give an overview of Christine McGrath and her
role with MASS. Dr Buckey noted Ms McGrath would act as his coach as he
goes through the new superintendent program at the MASS.

Emily Barron stated she is friends with Christine McGrath who will act as Dr
Buckey’s MASS mentor.

Sarah Fox asked about a possible fee to buy into the statewide remote learning
program, noting the need to allocate budget. Dr Buckey replied we currently
have the necessary funding for any remote programs. Ms Fox also requested
there be an open forum regarding remote learning to identify what worked, what
did not and any other further concerns. Dr Buckey replied he felt the survey
identified what worked and did not but noted he was not opposed to a forum but
asked to wait until mid August. Ms Gold also agreed that waiting to hold a forum
would be beneficial. Ms Gold noted that if asked three weeks ago she may have
said the hybrid model is where we wanted to be and now felt it was the last place
the district should be therefore waiting to see how things develop would be
beneficial. Ms Fox noted she was hoping to present less and listen more during
the forum. Ms Fox asked how the reopening subcommittees would be formed
and Ms Gold responded that it is a work in progress. Dr Buckey noted there had
been a lot of interest in being on the committees, was currently working on the
website and hoped to have committee members listed soon.


2. District survey on remote learning update

Dr Buckey stated he had 1028 pages worth of information to share from the
survey and noted the launch of the survey was not as smooth as he would
hope. Dr Buckey noted 88% of respondents noted there was also an adult
working at home, 86% indicated they had adequate access to learning materials
and 36% stated their student spent 2 hours a day in remote learning while 29%
stated their student spent more than 3 hours a day in remote learning. Dr
Buckey noted that one of the biggest learning curves for everyone on remote
learning was that people thought what happened in a 6 hour school day could
just be translated into the same as remote when in reality it is closer to a 50%
translation. Dr Buckey noted it was clear that families did not feel expectations
were clear, manageable and consistent. Dr Buckey noted no decisions would be
made based on the results of the survey as it was not scientific and did not feel
that it was a good use of the district's resources to develop a scientific survey. Dr
Buckey did state that the open answer portion of the survey was very
informative. Dr Buckey stated this was the first of many surveys which would
include a preference for learning models as well as staff survey.

Sarah Fox noted the 4th grade was the largest response yet one of our smallest
classes resulting in a 78% response rate. Ms Fox asked if there was a sense if
the bulk of the responses were positive or negative. Dr Buckey replied that he
did not feel there was a grade specific issue. Ms Fox noted she was wondering
more if it was age specific because that grade tended to be when students begin
being more independent and therefore may have had more difficulty transitioning
               to the remote model. Ms Fox asked if the results would be made available
               particularly the open response questions because Dr Buckey had noted those
               provided the best information. Dr Buckey noted he had not considered that but
               would work with the chair to determine if that was appropriate. Ms Fox asked
               when the survey to determine which model families would choose would be sent
               out. Dr Buckey replied he did not anticipate that survey going out prior to July
               25.

               David Harris noted these were uncharted waters and that the survey was not
               necessarily that people were not satisfied but rather what experiences were and
               gathering information.

               Ms Fox noted she believes in the train the trainer model and asked if any of the
               information that resulted from the survey identified staff that we may want to use
               in this model to maximize results. Dr Buckey replied he also likes the model and
               would like to implement it if possible.

               Ms Fox asked if we could return to public comment as there was a pertinent
               question in the comment thread. Ms Gold read the question “if there was any
               summary of significant challenges that came out of the survey” Dr Buckey noted
               he has shared that information with the leadership team.

               Meagan Taylor noted she did not have any specific questions at this time but
               noted the number of responses showed engagement from the public and wanted
               to give Dr Buckey time to work through the information.



III. Finance organization support
     1. Schedule of Bills

       Ms Fox asked what would happen if Kindergarten and Preschool refunds continue to be
       requested after we close FY20. Ms Cresta noted those funds are held in a revolving
       fund so may still be refined upon request. Ms Fox asked if enough was reserved to
       refund everyone if necessary. Ms Cresta replied yes.

               Motion was made to approve the schedule of bills totaling $1,436,915.66

               The motion was moved by Sarah Fox

               Meagan Taylor seconded the motion.

               Roll call vote was taken

               Sarah Gold                           Yes
               Emily Barron                         Yes
               Meagan Taylor                        Yes
               David Harris                         Yes
               Sarah Fox                            Yes
            The motion passed 5-0

2.   Bill signing process discussion

     Ms Gold noted we had previously assigned her as a single signature with Sarah Fox as
     a backup for signatures opposed to requiring three signatures on all schedules of
     bills. Ms Gold asked that this continue.

     Ms Taylor noted the reason for having three signatures was to have more oversight and
     now that we are in a more virtual environment she felt it was no longer necessary as Ms
     Cresta was scanning invoices. Ms Taylor questioned why specific people were named
     and she preferred to assign specific roles and also suggested that the change be
     permanent.

     Ms Fox noted concern that the motion did not require the bills to be uploaded which
     would take away transparency. Ms Fox asked that the motion be that all bills be
     uploaded as well. Mr Harris read the policy as it currently stands and stated he felt it
     provided opportunity for inspection. Ms Fox asked to clarify that all bills would be
     scanned and available in the dropbox. Ms Cresta noted it was not much additional work
     and was possible to scan and upload easily. Ms Cresta also stated the superintendent
     was not currently signing, rather the procurement officer was. Ms Taylor asked how it
     worked in other districts. Ms Cresta replied she has never seen the superintendent sign
     but rather it is always solely the School Committee who signs. Ms Gold noted the policy
     subcommittee would need to look further at this policy.

     Ms Gold read: “Motion to enable the chair be designated to approve all bills, drafts,
     orders and payrolls not otherwise presented for approval at a posted meeting to the full
     committee from the period beginning now thru June 30, 2021 provided if such approval
     takes place a record of such approval shall be made available to the committee at the
     first meeting following such approval and that said record of approval be placed on the
     next meeting as an agenda item. Further, that the secretary be designated as the
     backup signature if necessary.”

     Meagan Taylor suggested language change to the chair to designate a second person to
     sign.

     Ms Gold asked for a Motion to enable the chair be designated to approve all bills, drafts,
     orders and payrolls not otherwise presented for approval at a posted meeting to the full
     committee from the period beginning now thru June 30, 2021 provided if such approval
     takes place a record of such approval shall be made available to the committee at the
     first meeting following such approval and that said record of approval be placed on the
     next meeting as an agenda item. The chair will designate a back up member if
     necessary.


            The motion was moved by Meagan Taylor

            Emily Barron seconded the motion.

            Roll call vote was taken
               Sarah Gold                            Yes
               Emily Barron                          Yes
               Meagan Taylor                         Yes
               David Harris                          Yes
               Sarah Fox                             Yes

                The motion passed 5-0
        Ms Fox asked that the policy subcommittee revise the policy as we are still in violation of
        the policy.

3.      Breakfast and lunch program update

        Ms Cresta noted the emergency meal program was extended through August 31 for all
        individuals under the age of 18. Ms Cresta stated Samantha Rosatto set up a fundraiser
        to fully fund the program and successfully raised funding within a few days in conjunction
        with families who contacted the district to donate their students my school bucks, jointly
        totaling $3005.15. Ms Cresta encouraged anyone who needed to utilize the program to
        do so.

        Ms Gold thanked Ms Rosatto, Ms Cresta and Mr Kelleher for all the work that went into
        extending the program.

        Ms Fox asked Ms Cresta if we were able to do all the pre payments and purchases to
        offset the FY21 Capital ask. Ms Cresta replied yes. Ms Fox also asked for any updates
        on the year end close. Ms Cresta said they should be done at the end of the month.

IV. School Committee communications and/or discussions

     1. Retreats and Summer Meeting Dates and Discussion

        Ms Gold stated she had discussed with Dr Buckey and Ms Taylor the desire to hold the
        traditional summer retreat in person. Ms Gold presented the idea of meeting outside the
        Glover School under the covered front entry. Ms Gold noted she would work with
        Dorothy Presser to present a workshop. Ms Gold also stated there is a need for an
        additional retreat meeting as well.

        Ms Fox noted the idea of an outdoor meeting was preferable to anything indoors. Ms
        Fox asked Ms Taylor if MASC was still performing in person seminars. Ms Taylor
        mentioned the new member training were all virtual but that Ms Presser would do in
        person seminars on a case by case basis. Ms Fox asked for a list of the current
        seminars being offered to get a consensus of what members are looking for. Ms Gold
        replied that Dr Buckey and she had decided a presentation on a strategic plan and
        superintendent evaluation would be beneficial. Ms Taylor noted the seminars mentioned
        by Ms Gold were the ones she had discussed with Ms Presser. Ms Taylor also noted
        she wanted to look at communication and subcommittees. Ms Gold instructed the
        committee to email her with any suggestions of seminars they were hoping for. Ms Fox
        requested a seminar on team building. Ms Gold and Ms Taylor replied they would
        inquire.
     Ms Gold asked for dates for the summer retreat and follow meeting. Ms Taylor noted
     she preferred in person, Ms Barron and Mr Harris agreed. Ms Taylor noted the July
     dates Ms Presser is not available. July 28th at 8:30am was decided to work best for
     everyone for the retreat. August 10 at 9am was determined to work best for
     everyone. Ms Barron noted she may need to call in due to travel and Ms Fox noted she
     would prefer attending virtually due to personal medical needs. Ms Taylor asked if it
     made sense to change the date as Ms Barron may be unable to attend in person. Ms
     Barron noted she could work around her plans and August 10 worked.

2.   Declare District Surplus Items

     Ms Gold asked for a motion to declare the districts items outlined in the list provided to
     the school committee as surplus.

            The motion was moved by Meagan Taylor.

            Emily Barron seconded the motion.

     Ms Fox asked if it behooved us to keep surplus tables until we know what the distancing
     requirements for the fall would be. Ms Cresta noted once surplus was declared it would
     be determined if there was any use for the items. Ms Cresta stated she had spoken with
     Mr Bloodgood and he had noted the only thing usable were the tables and they would be
     further examined. Ms Cresta noted the storage was needed for PPE. Ms Cresta noted
     a surplus of 560 GoMath 2012 books were also included.

            Roll call vote was taken

            Sarah Gold                             Yes
            Emily Barron                           Yes
            Meagan Taylor                          Yes
            David Harris                           Yes
            Sarah Fox                              Yes

            The motion passed 5-0


     VI. Closing Business

        1. New Business

            Ms Fox asked about committing to public forums were interaction between the
            school committee, public and leadership team this year. Ms Gold noted she
            would add it to a future agenda.

            Ms Fox also asked to set a date that material would be in the dropbox. Ms Gold
            replied that was currently being worked on.

            Ms Taylor noted the forums would be a good retreat discussion as well as how
            we communicate to the community.
             Ms Gold noted all committee members had received an email from
             representative Ehrlich asking all the members for their comments and concerns
             regarding reopening schools. Ms Gold asked if each member wanted to
             respond individually or if one person should respond for everyone as a
             representative. Ms Fox noted she planned to email Representative Ehrlich
             individually. Ms Taylor noted she felt differently and thought it best if everyone
             was on the same page and that Sarah Gold should be the spokesperson. Ms
             Fox stated she felt the letter was very clear that Rep. Ehrlich wanted to hear
             everyone's individual thoughts and that the representative would then use that
             information to percolate her own thoughts and bring forth what she felt was
             pertinent. Ms Gold stated she read it the same way but wanted to know if it was
             the preference of the committee to present a common list of thoughts. Ms Fox
             noted she often reached out to her representative leaders and felt it important to
             continue to do so but she did not have a problem if the other members had the
             chair make a statement for them. Mr Harris reread the email from
             Representative Ehrlich and noted he felt our superintendent and assistant
             superintendent should be the ones to respond. Ms Taylor and Ms Barron
             agreed. Ms Barron noted she felt the professional staff were more well suited to
             answer the email. Ms Fox noted she was making it abundantly clear as it had
             been a reoccurring issue over the past few months, that she would be
             responding to the email sent to her with her individual thoughts and concerns as
             asked.


V. Closing Business
    1. New Business

      Mr Harris noted the Gerry School project had been left off the agenda and he would like
      to make an update. Mr Harris stated a group was working on the interiors. Mr Harris
      highlighted how exciting it is to hear what happens during the weekly meetings and how
      well the team is working together. Mr Harris noted that cost continues to be a focus in
      the weekly onsite meetings. Mr Harris noted a ceremony involving the students was
      being developed to celebrate the project. Ms Harris relayed the site plan appeal process
      had expired the day prior and concrete and site work would commence in the coming
      weeks.

2.     Sarah Gold adjourned the meeting at 8:55 pm.
