                       Marblehead School Committee
                               August 6, 2020
                                   7:00 PM
        Zoom Conference - Meeting ID 95440284493 & Password: 039947
https://zoom.us/j/95440284493?pwd=b2Ztc0VxTHlTL0FPayt6SEZyNnNZZz09
                 Dial In (415) 762-9988 with ID and follow prompts
                              Meeting ID 95440284493


I. Sarah Gold called the meeting to order at 7:08 pm

 Ms. Gold noted the zoom had maxed out at 300 people and understood it was an
 open meeting violation.

II. Public Comment

 Ms. Joan Miller introduced herself as the president of the Marblehead Teacher’s
 Association, parent of two daughters who attended MPS and a community member. Ms.
 Miller stated she was speaking on behalf of all the educators in the district and that this
 was a very trying time for all of us as we navigate our way safely through the global
 pandemic we find ourselves in. Ms. Miller thanked the superintendent, school
 committee, administrators, parents and teachers all served on the reopening committees
 this summer. Ms. Miller noted this is work that everyone has taken seriously in order to
 find a safe return to school. Ms. Miller stated she was here tonight on behalf of the
 teachers of Marblehead to request we begin the year in the safest way possible, that is a
 full robust remote learning plan. Ms. Miller said she understood what was being asked of
 the community and parents but believed the risk of a premature return to the schools
 were not worth the reward. Ms. Miller said, as educators they were asking for a return to
 in person learning guided by science and only when it is safe to do so. Ms. Miller noted
 on March 12 we all left school thinking we would be back in two weeks, that two weeks
 turned into three months and teachers were left to build the boat while sailing it. Ms.
 Miller said as educators they were committed to building a remote learning plan that is
 as robust and engaging as possible to meet the needs of all students though they also
 recognize there is no substitution for a classroom full of eager students guided by an
 engaging educator. Ms. Miller reminded everyone that before being teachers, they are
 parents, grandparents, husbands, wives, daughters and sons and that the risk of
 opening prematurely outweighs the rewards. Ms. Miller stated the teachers want to get
 back to normal more than anything but believe that we should error on the side of
 caution.

 Jeff Hoffman. Mr. Hoffman stated he disagreed with Ms. Miller and felt there were
 ways to return safely.

 Samantha Nelson, Elm St. Ms. Nelson stated she felt, in just days, there had been a
 pivot from a hybrid model to a full remote model and she was struck with a sense of
 dread. Ms. Nelson said she was unsure how to tell her children they will not be going to
 school, not be interacting with other kids, not be experiencing new activities and that
 their world would be within the four walls of their home. Ms. Nelson asked how to tell
 her children that the fears of few were massively impacting the many and how to tell
 them that ways to get them back into school had been developed but that we have
 turned away from those methods. Ms. Nelson also asked how to explain to her children
 that a “Not one more case” standard is impossible to achieve and it would likely mean
 not getting back to school. Ms. Nelson asked how to explain that a mitigate and manage
 approach that has been used in other businesses, hospitals and institutions somehow
 wouldn’t work in our schools and that their friends at private school and in other towns
 would go back to school but her children would not, continuing by asking how to explain
 to her children that those schools found a way to get back but we haven’t. Ms. Nelson
 stated it was very tough to tell her daughter who has been filled with joy at the prospect
 at her first day of first grade that she would be sitting at their kitchen table and her son
 that the failed educational experience he received in the Spring would somehow be
 miraculously better by the fall. Ms. Nelson asked how to tell her children that the
 education commissioner said that it is near impossible to teach kindergarteners and first
 graders to read over zoom but that somehow, we were going to do that. Ms. Nelson
 asked to make decisions with reason, facts and logic not fear, uncertainty and
 doubt. Ms. Nelson stated this was the moment School Committee members came here
 for, to stand up for kids and asked them to do so.

 Kate Thomson, Bubier Road. Ms. Thompson read a letter unanimously signed by the re-
 opening committee members. The reopening committee includes John Buckey, Nan
 Murphy, Brian Ota, Mandy Murphy, Donna Zaeske, Sean Satterfield, Matt Fox, Dan
 Bauer, Joan Miller, Eric Oxford, Todd Bloodgood, Michelle Cresta, Kathleen Hennessey,
 Sarah Gold, Helaine Hazlett, Kate Heasche Thomson, Caroline Laramie, Steph
 Callahan, Scott Solberg, Fiona Trimarchi and Sophie Hauck. The letter is as follows:

 Dear Dr. Buckey,

 “At your invitation the members of the Marblehead reopening committee have worked as
 a team over the summer to review, discuss and advise you on various aspects of the
 school reopening process. Throughout the safety and wellbeing of our community has
 remained at the forefront of our work. We have spent countless hours digesting the
 many reasons to reopen and considering the risks associated with a rush to in person
 learning. We have poured through the evolving safety protocols and considered the cost
 benefit analysis of remaining remote. We have gathered and analyzed feedback from
 our community including parent and staff surveys and listening sessions. We have
 observed the experiences of communities across the country who are wrestling with the
 same difficulties and we have considered the opinions of experts in the fields of
 education, child psychology, pediatrics, public health and more. This Thursday, August
 6th, today, you will present your reopening recommendation to the School Committee for
 approval and on Monday this plan will be delivered to Commissioner Riley of
 DESE. Earlier this week, following careful consideration of the risks and benefits of a
 myriad hybrid approaches we as a team expressed agreement to start the school year in
 remote learning with the intention to get back to in person as soon as safe for our
 community. The decision was based on discussions with the Board of Health and it is
 our understanding through these discussions that Massachusetts is experiencing an
 increased rate in the number of new cases. We were also told that community wide and
 timely testing was not possible.”

Ms. Thomson noted that in the interest of time she was going to skip the next paragraph
but continued “of paramount importance is that, as a nation and within the
Commonwealth, we have not yet controlled the pandemic. We have not yet established
reliable systems for testing or reporting, and we have not had enough time with the virus
to understand its potential to spread within community groups like schools. We have
reviewed the safety protocols and we do not yet see a viable path forward for in-person
instruction that ensures the safety of our community members. However varied our in
our individual roles within the district, our love for the Marblehead Public Schools, our
concern for the safety and well-being of our students, our staff, our teachers, and our
desire to implement equitable and innovative re-entry approaches that meet the needs
of all learners is ubiquitous. Therefore, we urge you to recommend a phased-in
approach beginning with a fully remote opening.”


Ms. Gold asked Mr. Harris to speak publicly regarding what he had been texting her.

Mr. Harris stated that given it was unanticipated that we would exceed 300 people for
the Zoom call, he felt there was an opportunity to take a 15 minute recess and speak
with an administrative assistant in the town who may be able to increase the Zoom
capacity as it had been done for a recent event and he felt may be able to happen again
in order to allow people who are unable to enter the meeting to do so.

Mr. Harris made a motion for a 15 minuterecess.
Meagan Taylor seconded the motion.

Roll call vote was taken

Sarah Gold                    Yes
Meagan Taylor                 Yes
Emily Barron                  Yes
Sarah Fox                     Yes
David Harris                  Yes

Motion carried 5-0

Ms. Gold noted the meeting would not be reconvened until at least 7:35 pm.

Ms. Gold returned and stated there was no current ability to increase the meeting
capacity at the time. Ms. Gold stated she felt it was best to adjourn the meeting and she
hoped to increase the account to 1000 participants the next day.

Ms. Gold noted that Ms. Taylor had spoken to her during the recess and noted
the Monday deadline for voting.

Several members of the community voiced displeasure with adjourning the meeting.

Ms. Gold restated the meeting was being conducted as an open meeting
violation. Ms. Gold noted that no emergency meeting would be required, and a meeting
could be posted within the 48 hour posting requirement for Monday evening at 7 pm. Ms.
Gold asked the Committee members if they could all attend at that time.
      Ms. Fox noted that would not allow for the 48 hours posting requirements and suggested
      it would need to be Tuesday. Ms. Gold stated this was correct.

       Ms. Fox asked that the reopening recommendation and documents be released to the
       public as soon as possible to allow them to review them in the absence of the
       presentation that was on the agenda. Mr. Harris voiced he did not want to do this. Ms.
       Taylor asked if an emergency meeting could be scheduled for Monday evening.

       Mr. Harris made a call for civility as noted that requests for live streaming on Facebook
       could not be met as the meeting was legally posted to be available on zoom. Mr. Harris
       noted he felt a 48 hours posting was the best course of action.

       In response to a community question, Ms. Gold noted the plan was due by Monday,
       but Dr. Buckey has just received communication from the commissioner informing the
       date was pushed back.

       Ms. Gold noted a request had been made for the reopening recommendation be
       made available and Dr. Buckey said that was no problem at all. Ms. Gold noted the
       document would be posted on ww.backtogethermhd.com right away.

       Ms. Gold apologized again for the incident.

       Ms. Fox addressed Ms. Gold, stating the school committee could certainly not discuss or
       deliberate the information at all, but asked if it was allowed to have Dr. Buckey still make
       his presentation so that the public that attended could hear what he had to say. Mr.
       Harris stated he felt the best course of action was to adjourn the meeting and continue at
       a later date. Ms. Fox noted she agreed that all who wish to be present should be able to
       be but was hoping to find a way to get the information to the public. Ms. Taylor noted
       releasing the documents would be a good compromise.

      Ms. Gold asked for a motion to adjourn the meeting and reschedule for Monday, August
      10 at 7 pm.

       Meaghan Taylor moved the motion
       Sarah Fox seconded the motion

       Roll Call vote was taken

       Sarah Gold                    Yes
       Meaghan Taylor                Yes
       Emily Barron                  Yes
       Sarah Fox                     Yes
       David Harris                  Yes

       Motion passed 5-0

       Ms. Gold apologized for lacking the foresight that more than 300 people would

       attend.

       Sarah Gold adjourned at 7:52 pm

Approved 11/5/2020
