                       Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                   Tuesday July 28, 2020 10:30am
 Zoom Conference Call- https://zoom.us/j/91581446326?pwd=NWJSZ1Yxc3FaSTA1L2pCTkVQTnZFZz09
                                    Meeting ID: 915 8144 6326
                                         Password: 316828
                          OR Dial In (415) 762-9988 and follow the prompts

Members Present:                        Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Emily Barron, David Harris
                                        and Sarah Fox

Also:                                   Dr. John J. Buckey-Superintendent
                                        Michelle Cresta-Director of Finance



I. Initial Business
   a. Call to Order
      Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 10:33am.

    Ms. Taylor requested switching agenda items number V. and II. so that the Massachusetts
    Association of School Committees (MASC) representative Ms. Presser could participate before
    moving on with the rest of the agenda items.

    Ms. Gold made motion to take the agenda out of order. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and
    seconded by Ms. Fox. A roll call vote was taken.

    Ms. Gold-Yes
    Ms. Fox-Yes
    Ms. Barron-Yes
    Mr. Harris-Yes
    Ms. Taylor-Yes

    The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

II. School Communication and/or Discussion Items
    Ms. Gold shared that MASC representative Ms. Dorothy Presser was in attendance to guide the
    school committee through the specific communication and discussion items on the agenda for that
    day.
    a. District Council Discussion
        Ms. Gold explained that welcoming a new Superintendent was a good time to revisit and discuss
        such items as legal counsel. Ms. Taylor recommended discussing questions regarding school
        committee roles and responsibilities prior to moving forward with discussing the options for
        potential requests for proposals for legal counsel. There were no member questions.

        Ms. Gold clarified whether a RFP, request for proposal was needed to which Ms. Presser
        confirmed that it was not as the individual that could be brought on would be hired as a
        consultant. She further explained that there is an organization named the Council of School
        Attorneys that is usually used as a resource to send out letters for soliciting services. Ms. Presser
   shared that is was a common process to inquire about legal representation when there were
   changes in the administrative team.

   The committee members shared their concerns along with the benefits of seeking requests for
   proposals for legal representation. Topics discussed included institutional knowledge, the level of
   services being provided, looking into the budgetary aspect of services and the importance of
   knowledge of collective bargaining agreements.

   Superintendent Buckey mentioned that the timing for exploration was right and Ms. Presser
   noted that it would be good practice to inform the district’s current firm of the committee’s
   intentions prior to moving forward with reaching out to other attorneys. Superintendent Buckey
   updated the committee on the attorneys he has had experience working with and informed the
   committee of a firm in Boston he may like to reach out to.

   Ms. Gold made a motion to have herself and Ms. Taylor work with the Superintendent to write up
   a letter to send to legal firms on the MASC list of recommendations. The motion was moved by
   Mr. Harris and seconded by Ms. Taylor. Ms. Taylor inquired whether there was a need to receive
   committee approval on the letter that would be sent to which Ms. Gold noted that there was not
   and that the letter would be brought back to the committee once sent. A roll call vote was taken.

   Ms. Gold-Yes
   Ms. Barron-Yes
   Ms. Fox-No
   Mr. Harris-Yes
   Ms. Taylor-Yes

   The motion passes, 4-1.
b. School Committee Internal Communication
   Ms. Gold mentioned that the committee normally goes over the operating protocols of how the
   committee is governed each year. She further shared that Superintendent Buckey had added
   some additional operating protocols to be reviewed.

   Ms. Presser explained that when turnover within the committee takes place it is a good idea to
   have a discussion to determine how the committee will work together so that the committee
   can do so effectively. She shared a PowerPoint engaging the members to discuss what they felt
   the overarching mission of the school committee may be. Ms. Presser informed the committee
   that continuous improvement in student achievement remained a primary focus.

   Ms. Presser noted that both the committee and the Superintendent have leadership roles; the
   committee as a governing unit and the Superintendent from a management standpoint. She
   further discussed the roles and responsibilities of each leadership position and how the
   operating protocols that are determined could be used as a guide for what is expected of each
   member along with serving as a self-evaluation tool.

   A conversation regarding specific protocols took place and concerns and clarifications were
   discussed. Although no formal vote was taken, it was decided that the protocols would be
   revisited at the next meeting to be confirmed for a vote.
III. Superintendent Report
     Re-entry Planning Update
      Superintendent Buckey discussed the plan for the reopening of schools sharing that the
     subcommittees were working on plans for all options of reopening including; in –person, full
     remote and a hybrid plan. He shared that DESE has stressed that the primary focus for districts
     should be how to return to school safely. He noted that he did not see a path to return to all in
     person instruction safely and encouraged the community to visit the new Back Together MHD
     website for regular updates. It was noted although the option to return with three foot social
     distancing could be considered that it would not be considered the responsible and safest choice. It
     was explained that classrooms were being measured and rooms repurposed to accommodate for
     changes.

   Dr. Buckey informed the community that a memo would be going out later that same day with
   updates regarding the plan for community and staff listening sessions. He explained that given
   recent survey results that a hybrid plan model seemed to make the most sense and commended
   Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy for her work in creating cohorts for students to safely return
   to the classrooms.

   Scheduling and instructional time for each building was discussed and the idea for the in-person
   versus the remote portion of learning for each day was explained. It was shared that the Teaching
   and Learning subcommittees were meeting regularly and that the hybrid model would allow for an
   easier transition to full remote should that be necessary at any time during the year.

   Mr. Harris inquired about next steps to which Superintendent Buckey explained that the draft plan
   would be submitted by Friday after taking staff and community feedback into consideration. He
   further shared that there would be time for an additional non-anonymous survey stating the
   intention for returning prior to submitting the final plan which would be due by August 10th.

  A series of questions and answers took place. Concerns regarding remote teaching instruction,
  alternating cohort days, the option to switch between models, calendar concerns and budgetary
  implications was discussed. Professional development training for remote teaching and overall
  staffing concerns were also mentioned.

IV. Finance Organizational Support
   a. Schedule of Bills
      Ms. Gold made a motion to accept the above identified schedule of bills totaling $486,460.27.
      The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox. Ms. A roll call vote was taken.

     Ms. Gold-Yes
     Ms. Baron-Yes
     Ms. Fox-Yes
     Ms. Taylor-Yes
     Mr. Harris-Yes

     The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

     Ms. Cresta was also asked to provide an update on COVID related expenditutes. She shared that
     the town was granted $1.8million in COVID relief funds and that the school department was
    provided $454k to be used towards COVID related expenditures sharing that a majority of the
    expenditures would be budgeted towards personal protective equipment and signage. Ms. Cresta
    informed the committee that the Elementary Schools and Secondary Relief Grant in the amount
    of $91k will be able to be spent over a two year period. She further mentioned that an application
    on how the funds will be spent will be submitted. Ms. Cresta also discussed the School Reopening
    Grant based on $225 per student and the Remote Learning Technologies Essential Grant that was
    based on need. It was mentioned that that a budget line item of $168k was budgeted to be used
    for any COVID related expenditure which could also be used to adjust shortfalls if needed.

    A conversation regarding additional expenses related to bussing for METCO students, cleaning
    staff and technology needs was discussed and Ms. Cresta reminded the committee that additional
    funds from the town would be available if there was a need.

  b. Service and Maintenance Agreement Contracts
     Ms. Cresta explained that the joint contract with the Town for City Elevators was expiring on June
    30th. She shared that bids opened on June 24th and that three bids were received. It was noted
    that the lowest bidder was Embry Elevator in the amount of $51,400. She recommended
    awarding a one year contract to Embry Elevators with the option for two one year extensions of
    contract. It was mentioned that references had already been checked and that Town was in
    agreement with the decision.

    Ms. Gold made a motion to award a one year contract of the elevator maintenance contract to
    Embry Elevator of Woburn Massachusetts in amount of $51,400 and to authorize the chair to sign
    the contract on behalf of the committee. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by
    Ms. Fox. A question about requirements for accepting the lowest bidder and concerns regarding
    rate increases was clarified. Ms. Gold noted prior to the roll call vote that Mr. Harris was no
    longer present for the vote. A roll call vote was taken.

    Ms. Gold-Yes
    Ms. Fox-Yes
    Ms. Barron-Yes
    Ms. Taylor-Yes
    Mr. Harris-abstention

    The motion passes 4-0.

V. Consent Action Agenda Items
    a. Acceptance of Donations
       Ms. Cresta thanked parent Ms. Rosato for raising funds to cover the cost of continuing the
       summer meal program sharing that Ms. Rosato raised a total of $3,004.75 which covered the
       projected shortfall of around $2,900. Ms. Gold made a motion to accept donations totaling
       $3,004.75 from various individuals to be used for the summer meal program. The motion was
       moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken.

     Ms. Gold-Yes
     Ms. Barron-Yes
     Ms. Taylor-Yes
     Ms. Fox-Yes
      Mr. Harris-abstention
      The motion passes, 4-0.

   b. District Letterhead Logo Discussion
      Ms. Gold explained that a new logo and business cards were recently created for incoming
      Superintendent Buckey and that the committee would provide their input for approval.

       Ms. Gold made a motion to accept the business card template. The motion was moved by Ms.
       Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox. A roll call vote was taken.

       Ms. Gold
       Ms. Barron
       Ms. Taylor
       Ms. Fox
       Mr. Harris-abstention

       The motion passes, 4-0.

       Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the letterhead option number one. The motion was moved
       by and seconded by. A roll call vote was taken.

       Ms. Gold-Yes
       Ms. Baron-Yes
       Ms. Taylor-Yes
       Ms. Fox-Yes
       Mr. Harris-abstention

       The motion passes, 4-0.

VI. Adjournment
   Prior to adjourning Ms. Taylor inquired whether the committee needed to meet to approve
   the plan prior to submitting it. Ms. Gold confirmed and held a meeting time for Thursday the
   6th at 7pm. Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 1:24pm.


                                                                              Respectfully Submitted
                                                                              Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                              Marblehead School Committee

Approved October 1, 2020
