                            Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                          Thursday March 5, 2020
                                      Marblehead High School Library

Members Present:                         Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, David Harris and Sarah Fox

Also:                                    William, H. McAlduff Jr.-Interim Superintendent
                                         Michelle Cresta-Director of Finance
                                         Daniel Bauer-Principal, Marblehead High School
                                         Lynsey Page-Assistant Principal, Marblehead High School
                                         Brian Ota-Principal, Glover Elementary School

Members Absent:                          Jennifer Schaeffner, took part by phone

I.      Initial Business and Public Involvement
        1. Call to Order
             Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:03pm.

        2.   Commendations
             a. Winter Sports Report
                Ms. Taylor shared that she had attended the METCO Program’s Cultural Feast that they hosted
                last Friday. She shared that she was inspired and impressed by the event, student performances
                and food and thanked them for the event.

                 Ms. Gold congratulated Village School Principal, Ms. Amanda Murphy for being honored by the
                 ADL New England with the Essex County Law and Education Day Community Service Award.
                 She shared that the recipients include educators and law enforcement members who demonstrate
                 exemplary leadership within their community. The breakfast honoring recipients would be held on
                 May 8th at the Kernwood Country Club.

                 Ms. Fox thanked Boosters President, Muffy Paquette for not only achieving but exceeding the
                 fundraising goal for the repairs of High School tennis courts.

                 Ms. Fox recognized the private funding support that the PTO’s continue to provide.

                 Ms. Fox thanked Athletic Director, Greg Ceglarski for his prompt and professional handling of a
                 medical crisis at a recent sports event.

        3.   Public Comment
             None

        4.   Student representative – Dan Howells
              Both the Boys Hockey and Girls basketball teams had playoff runs
              Both the Boys and Girls ski teams competed at the Massachusetts state ski meet where the boys
                 team took on the championship win for the 4th year in a row
              The recent Cultural Feast was enjoyed by all where there was singing, dancing and spoken word
              5 Marblehead High School students are currently attending the Massachusetts All State Choral
                 Festival and a combined total of 500 students will be performing this coming Saturday at the
                 Boston Symphony Hall
              Freshman, Sophomores and Juniors had meetings earlier that day about course selections for next
               year and there were a variety of elective to choose from
              The Bread and Puppet Theatre performed last Thursday in the High School Auditorium
              The MHS production of Peter and Wendy moved onto the semi-finalist round in the MATG
               Drama Festival happening next Saturday
              Preparations for Junior and Senior Proms are beginning

           Superintendent McAlduff shared that the Girls Basketball Team enjoyed a phenomenal season with a
           record of 17 wins and 3 losses. It was also mentioned that the Swim and Dive Team went undefeated
           with an 8-0 record. Wrestling finished in the top 8 of their weight class with 15 total wins and had their
           best season in history. The Boys Skiing Team won their 4 th straight State Title and the Girls Skiing
           Team won their 2nd State Title. The Hockey team was also commended for their notable season as
           well.

           Superintendent McAlduff also recognized the 9 High School Students who submitted artwork that was
           accepted and exhibited in the Climate Change Art Exhibit which took place at Endicott College.

II.    Consent Agenda and Action Items
       1. Minutes-January 13, 2020
          Ms. Gold made a motion to accept the minutes from January 13, 2020. She asked if any of the
          members needed any clarifications or would like to request any edits to which the Superintendent’s
          Assistant replied that some typos had been sent to her. The motion was moved by Ms. Fox and
          seconded by Mr. Harris. Pending the requested changes, the motion passes, 5-0 all in favor. A roll call
          vote was taken

           Mr. Harris-yes
           Ms. Taylor-yes
           Ms. Fox-yes
           Ms. Schaeffner-yes
           Mr. Gold-yes

III.   Superintendent Report
       1. Assistant Superintendent Hiring Process
          Superintendent McAlduff explained that he had shared with the school committee a document
          outlining the Assistant Superintendent hiring process stating that the document described the key
          elements and timeline of the search. He mentioned that the job posting for the Assistant Superintendent
          would be posted to School Spring by the next day. He also stated that March 27 th would be the
          deadline date for applicants interested in participating on the Search Advisory Committee, SAC and
          that he would be sending invitations for application to various school groups. It was noted that a
          Finalist Visit Day would be scheduled in May. It was further shared that the SAC would consist of at
          least:

           1 Central Office Staff
           3 Teachers
           2 Parents-Grades K-6 and Grades 7-12
           1 School Committee Member

           Superintendent McAlduff also mentioned that Marblehead’s new incoming Superintendent, Dr. John
           Buckey would also participate.

           Ms. Taylor expressed interest in taking part on the committee while Ms. Fox also referred Ms.
           Schaeffner sharing that she had experience serving on many state boards that would be of value to the
           search.
     After a discussion regarding providing opportunities to all committee members while spreading the
     responsibility of members around, Mr. Harris made a motion to nominate Ms. Taylor to be on the
     search committee and to keep the number of committee members at 1. Ms. Gold seconded the motion.

     After discussing whether or not that number could be changed, Superintendent McAlduff clarified that
     there could be two members of the school committee on the SAC and specified that roles of the school
     committee members would be no different than the roles of other members.

     Mr. Harris confirmed that there was a motion on the floor to recommend Ms. Taylor to be on the
     search committee to which Ms. Schaeffner amended the motion to include two school committee
     members to be part of the Superintendent Advisory Committee for the Assistant Superintendent
     Search. Ms. Schaeffner’s motion was seconded by Ms. Fox.

     Ms. Gold clarified that there was now a motion with an amended motion that had also been seconded
     for two school committee members, Meagan Taylor and Jenn Schaeffner to be on the Search Advisory
     Committee for the Assistant Superintendent Search. Ms. Gold asked for a roll call vote for the
     amended motion for two members to participate.

     Mr. Harris-yes
     Ms. Taylor-yes
     Ms. Fox-yes
     Ms. Schaeffner-yes
     Ms. Gold-yes

     The motion carries, 5-0 all in favor.

     Ms. Fox made a motion to nominate Jenn Schaeffner to assist as school committee member on the
     Search Advisory Committee for the Assistant Superintendent role. The motion was seconded my Ms.
     Gold. A roll call vote was taken

     Ms. Gold-yes
     Mr. Harris-yes
     Ms. Taylor-yes
     Ms. Fox-yes
     Ms. Schaeffner-yes

     The motion carries, 5-0 all in favor.

2.   Approval of DECA Overnight National Conference Trip
     Mr. Bauer shared with the school committee that a total of 4 of the DECA students that had
     participated in the All State Competition in Boston last weekend had also qualified for the DECA
     Nationals scheduled for April 29th-May 2nd in Nashville. He commended and congratulated High
     School Teacher Ms. Skalaban on leading her high school students to success and stated he was proud
     to be asking for committee approval for the overnight trip.

     Ms. Fox did raise concerns regarding the uncertainty of the Corona Virus and how it may affect the
     trip to which Superintendent McAlduff replied that there was nothing currently restricting travel within
     the U.S but that the situation would be closely monitored in the event the competition would be
     canceled.

     Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the DECA overnight trip in Nashville on April 29 th though May
     2nd. The motion was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor. Mr. Harris who had stepped out
     of the meeting during the conversation would abstain from the vote. A roll call vote was taken.

     Ms. Gold-yes-
     Ms. Taylor-yes
           Ms. Fox-yes
           Ms. Schaeffner-yes

           The motion carries, 4-0.

      3.   Approval of Music Department Trip to Orlando
           Mr. Bauer shared that Music Teacher, Mr. Scolgio has been working to improve the visibility of the
           Performing Arts Department and that the department would be doing fundraisers in support of
           increasing their visibility while raising funds to take a trip to Disney World in April of 2021. Mr.
           Bauer shared that 50 students would attend with a chaperone for every 10 students. He shared that the
           performances and workshops would be an outstanding experience for the students as well as staff and
           that the cost of the trip was projected to be $1849 including hotel, airfare, insurance and tickets to the
           park.

           Ms. Schaeffner mentioned the possibility of the Corona Virus still being around in the Spring to which
           Mr. Bauer replied that he would be monitoring the situation for the potential for cancellation.

           Superintendent McAlduff mentioned that due to the discussion surrounding Corona Virus that it was a
           good time to share that the April trip to France that the committee had voted to approve last year would
           be canceled due to the current health situation and recent guidance from the Governor.

           Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the Performing Arts Department trip to Orlando in April of 2021.
           The motion was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor. A roll call vote was taken

           Ms. Gold-yes
           Ms. Fox-yes
           Ms. Harris-yes
           Ms. Taylor-yes
           Ms. Schaeffner-yes

           The motion carries, 5-0 all in favor

IV.   Finance Organizational Support
      1. Schedule of Bills
          Ms. Gold apologized to the committee as she had missed signing one schedule that was for the
          Building Committee. She did confirm that it had already been approved by the Building Committee
          and that she felt confident moving forward with the vote. Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the
          identified schedule of bills totaling $537,170.82. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded
          by Ms. Fox. A roll call vote was taken.

           Mr. Harris-yes
           Ms. Taylor-yes
           Ms. Fox-yes
           Ms. Schaeffner-yes
           Ms. Gold-yes

      2.   FY21 Capital – Continue Discussion
           Superintendent McAlduff discussed the items that had been brought to his attention after recent
           building walkthroughs which would need to be narrowed down to be considered as part of the FY21
           Capital Needs ask. He shared that he looked over the 2018 comprehensive list that the former Director
           of Facilities had complied while also considering the $150k capital items that were part of the Town
           Warrant the prior year which had provided estimates for reference. It was mentioned that replacing the
           entry doors to the High School, refinishing the gymnasium floors at the Veterans School and painting
           the interior of the Glover School were all items to be considered. He also explained the request to have
           a Capital Needs Assessment of all of the school buildings should be further discussed with the Town
           and that a reputable company called Onsight Insite could be reached for an estimate.
     Although no formal vote was taken, it was decided that the items would be prioritized for a future vote
     so that the committee could prepared to present it to the Town for approval.

3.   FY21 Draft Budget
      a. MHS BRYT Program
         Marblehead High School Assistant Principal, Ms. Page gave a PowerPoint Presentation
         discussing the success of the grant funded BRYT Program. Her PowerPoint highlighted that the
         goal of the program was to “provided short-term clinical and academic support for high-need
         students to help them reintegrate into school after a crisis or setback.” It was shared that the two
         BRYT Program positions, one for a Teacher/Coordinator and one for a Tutor/Clinician would be
         included in the budget for the 2020-2021SY. Ms. Page shared that 7 students were currently
         enrolled in the program and that 4 more were in the referral process. She also noted that all
         students with absences of around 20 or more maintained a 92% average in all of their classes.
         Ms. Page explained that the success of the BRYT Program could not have happened without the
         wonderful work of the Coordinator, Ms. Emily Robinson or the Tutor and Clinician, Ms.
         Samantha Bagley who work regularly to maintain constant communication with parents and
         staff. It was mentioned that 2 students were able to remain at the High School instead of
         being outplaced due to the program and that 3 students were kept from entering the special
         education referral process.

      b.   Glover School – Guidance Counselor
           Glover School Principal, Mr. Ota came before the School Committee to request that a Guidance
           Counselor Position be approved at the Glover School. Mr. Ota shared a list of the current
           responsibilities of the Glover School Psychologist, while explaining that the additional time
           spent not directly supporting students is spent testing students on Individualized Educational
           Plans, IEP’s and attending meetings for those students. He shared that position would help
           offload some of the additional special education work the Glover School Psychologist, Amanda
           Lockerbie has become responsible for.

           Ms. Fox and Ms. Gold commended the hard work of Ms. Lockerbie and agreed that the social
           emotional health of the students and the staff is important and the position would be a good
           investment in the school.

      c.   Special Education – Out-of-District Tuition
           Superintendent McAlduff gave an update on Out of District Tuition costs sharing that the budget
           adjustment tracking sheet he had shared with the committee included the redacted version of a
           comprehensive list of O.O.D tuition students and that the changes that have occurred since the
           budget workshop meeting on February 12th were included. He noted that even with the $250k
           reserve fund that it would still be important to have flexibility within the operating budget to
           account for any changes. He further shared that any updates would be adjusted on the tracking
           sheet and made to the budget moving forward to account for changes and that this could occur
           through March 30th when the meeting would be held with the Finance Committee. After
           discussing the expected revenue and need, it was shared that a projected gap in funding of just
           over $139k was expected. It was also shared that a new recent tuition-in placement of $32k
           would help lessen the gap. Additionally, the potential of 2-3 new students was still pending.

      d.   Outside of Appropriation Revenue
           i. Grants
              Ms. Cresta provided a detailed summary of all of the state and federal grants sharing figures
              from last year and explained to the committee that some of the 2.5year grants from 2019 are
              still being spent down. The state grants include a METCO grant in the amount of 500K used
              for transportation, staffing, tutoring and METCO student activities and the Improving
              Student Access Grant in the amount of $100k used to fund the first year BRYT Program.

               The Federal Grants include the IDEA Grant in the amount of 745K half of which is used for
               special education transportation costs, Early Childhood Grant in the amount of $19k used to
                   evaluate students for early intervention related to special education support. Ms. Cresta
                   shared that the additional grants consisted of four Title Grants, Title I, II, III and IV used to
                   provide additional services for students and staff.

              ii. Revolving Funds
                  Ms. Cresta provided an overview of the major revolving funds sharing the FY20 total
                  budgeted amount of around $4 million and 34 k with an estimated FY21 budgeted amount of
                  $4million and 112K. The revolving funds mentioned were, User Fees, (Foreign) Tuition
                  Revolving, Special Education Tuition Revolving, Building Rental Revolving, Pre-k and
                  Kindergarten Revolving, Athletics Revolving, School Lunch Revolving and Circuit Breaker
                  Revolving.

                   A brief conversation regarding the use of funds to cover special education transportation
                   costs took place.

V. School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
   1. Sub-Committee Reports
       Ms. Taylor shared that a Budget Subcommittee meeting will be held with the Town on the March
           12th
       Mr. Harris shared that a mailing came from MASC regarding a recent ruling pertaining to public
           comment
       Superintendent McAlduff shared that a policy subcommittee meeting would be scheduled for the
           week of March 30th
       Ms. Taylor shared that the Wellness Subcommittee met last Monday. She commended The
           Sustainability Club for their fantastic job with staffing and running the High School Composting
           Program. She shared that the club met with the Veterans Environmental Group to pilot a potential
           composting program there as well. She also mentioned the possibility of piloting the program at
           Village pending the success at the Veterans Middle School.
       Ms. Taylor also shared that Food Service Director, Mr. Kelleher is researching the possibility of
           replacing Styrofoam lunch trays with compostable ones with the hope of piloting the use of
           compostable trays and cutlery at the High School at either the end of the year or next year.

    2.   Building Project Update
         Ms. Fox shared that her and her son Matthew visited the Bell demolition site earlier this morning and
         shared a photo of what the site currently looks like. She shared that Gilbane was respectful to
         neighbors by making a plan to demolish the building in slower steps over a longer period of time. She
         also shared that there was a meeting earlier in the week lead by Ms. Emily Barron to go over the
         exterior materials of the new elementary school. There would also be meetings scheduled in the
         coming weeks with educators to discuss the interior of the building.

         Mr. Harris shared that the Planning Board approval was received Monday night. He mentioned that the
         site plan and land disturbance was approved and recorded with the Essex Southern District Registry of
         Deeds that same day. He thanked everyone involved for their collaboration to keep the project moving
         forward and on schedule.

         Mr. Harris also shared that he and Ms. Fox recently received the monthly project report summary for
         February and that he would forward that along to committee members.

    3.   New Elementary Building Name Discussion
         a. Finalize Naming Process and Dates
            Ms. Gold shared that this agenda item would be pushed to another meeting.
            Ms. Fox clarified if there were any deed or gifting restrictions related to the naming process and
            agreed that she would look into those pieces to confirm.

VI. Closing Business
    1. New Business
     None

2.   Adjournment
     Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:35pm.

                                                 Respectfully Submitted
                                                 Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                 Marblehead School Committee

Approved May 21, 2020
