                              Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                                   April 13, 2020
                                         Zoom Web Conference 7:00 PM
                                Zoom Conference Call-Meeting ID: 756 601 167
                                           https://zoom.us/j/756601167

Members Present:                           Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Jennifer Schaeffner
                                           David Harris and Sarah Fox

Also:                                      William, H. McAlduff Jr.-Interim Superintendent

I. Initial Business and Public Involvement
   a. Call to Order
      Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:07 pm and reminded the community member participants to please
      add their name into the chat function to take part in public comment.

     Superintendent McAlduff provided an update on remote learning sharing that feedback from staff and parents
     was being monitored and considered for the task force to address concerns and make adjustments.
  b. Public Comment
     Ms. Erin Noonan of 15 Beverly Avenue shared her concerns of core curriculum expectations for parents and
     spoke in favor of prerecorded lessons if the lessons were unable to be taught live remotely. She thanked her
     son’s 5th Grade Teacher, Ms. Deiana for her consistent time spent online with small groups of students.

     Ms. Kristen Pratt of 48 Pleasant Street commended the improvement with being able to locate assignments in
     fewer locations. She also spoke in favor of wanting to see lessons taught live.

     Ms. Catherine Martin of 29 Westshore Drive shared her concerns regarding lack of consistency with instructor
     lead sessions and noted that there should be a district policy regarding instructor lead sessions.

     Ms. Jennifer Eaton of 126 Westshore Drive shared her concerns with the lack of consolidation of logins for the
     various assignments stating that submissions for assignments could get overwhelming at times.

     Marblehead High School Junior, Cannan Whittier spoke in favor of Zoom meetings being required once a
     week for the teacher /student face to face contact.

     Marblehead High School Junior, Tess Whalen shared that she felt teachers were providing well balanced
     assignments with staggered due dates while making it easy for students to reach out for additional support
     during posted remote office hours.

     Marblehead High School Junior, Sophie Hauck shared that she did feel remote learning was best suited for
     high school students who already had experience using remote learning platforms such as Google Classroom
     and Zoom. She also noted that she was thankful for the opportunity to still participate in enrichment programs
     and clubs remotely.

     Marblehead High Junior,Tess Keaney shared that online learning was going smoothly for her and she spoke in
     favor of teachers providing live remote learning instruction which could help accommodate the various
     different learning styles.

     Marblehead High School Juior, Carly Schauer shared that her remote learning needs were being met. She
     further shared that she preferred live remote instruction but that she has been able to learn new material in the
     absence of live instruction.

     Superintendent McAlduff explained that all members of the remote learning task force were on the zoom
     meeting so they were able to hear the community feedback and make notes which would be helpful as the
     district continued to make adjustments to the remote learning process.
II. April Vacation Status
    Superintendent McAlduff discussed the April vacation memo he shared with the School Committee. He
    explained that recent guidance from DESE recommended that the decision to remain in school over April break
    would be an individual town decision. He further shared that he worked with Marblehead Education Association
    representative, Joan Miller to put together a survey for staff input stating that the three survey options were:
     1) Cancel April Vacation and remain in school Tuesday-Friday April 21st-the 24th
         The final day of school would be June 18th
     2) Cancel April Vacation for just Friday the 24th , Monday was Patriots Day and school was already closed
         The final day of school would be June 19th
     3) Keep April Vacation as originally scheduled with no school April 21 st-the 24th.
         The final day of school would be June 24th.

   Superintendent McAlduff noted that the survey results overwhelmingly favored the first option by 73% to
   remain in school during April break which would make the last day of school June 18 th. He explained that due to
   the current remote learning plans moving forward he would recommend that the committee consider remaining
   open during April vacation.

   Ms. Gold made a motion to cancel Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of April vacation (April 21 st-April
   24th) making the final day of school June 18, 2020. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms.
   Schaeffner.

   Prior to a roll call vote being taken, the committee members discussed how getting out of school earlier in the
   summer would provide more time for reentry planning and for implementing subcommittees to address such
   concerns as the social emotional health of the students upon their return to school. It was also mentioned that
   structure and consistency was a primary concern for students and that remaining open would support the
   continued progress towards the new remote learning plans that were recently put in place.

   Ms. Gold confirmed that there was a motion on the table and that it had been moved and seconded and then
   called for a roll call vote.

   Ms. Gold-yes
   Ms. Taylor-yes
   Ms. Fox-yes
   Mr. Harris-yes
   Ms. Schaeffner-yes

   The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

   Ms. Fox recommended another motion to address implementing a task force for social emotional learning to
   have in place within the next few weeks.

   After a brief discussion, it was decided that discussion regarding a task force for social emotional learning could
   be revisited at a later time after bringing it to the attention of the leadership team. Ms. Taylor shared that she
   thought the primary district focus should be on remote learning to which Mr. Harris confirmed that he was
   confident the appropriate reentry subcommittees would be put in place as soon as they could be. Ms. Gold also
   mentioned that the Department of Public Health would most likely be involved in that conversation when the
   time came to plan for reentry. The motion Ms. Fox recommended was not voted.

   Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 8:14pm.

                                                                                          Respectfully Submitted
                                                                                          Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                                          Marblehead School Committee

Approved June 18, 2020
