                    Record of the Marblehead School Committee Emergency Meeting
                                       Tuesday March 17, 2020
                                 Conference Call via conferencecall.com

                                        Call in Number 425-436-6369
                                             Access Code 449236


Members Present:                        Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Jennifer Schaeffner
                                        David Harris and Sarah Fox

Also:                                   William, H. McAlduff Jr.-Interim Superintendent
                                        Daniel Bauer, Principal-Marblehead High School
                                        Matthew Fox, Principal-Veterans Middle School
                                        Amanda Murphy, Principal-Village School
                                        Sean Satterfield, Principal-Coffin School
                                        Brian Ota, Principal-Glover School
                                        Donna Zaeske, Principal Eveleth School and 3rd Grade at Village
                                        Michelle Cresta-Director of Finance
                                        Eric Oxford-Director of Student Services
Members Absent:

    I.     Discussion of Logistics Regarding the Long-Term Closure of Schools
           Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 3:00pm and invited Superintendent McAlduff to speak.

           Superintendent McAlduff thanked the participants for joining the meeting and explained that he would
           be muting the participants and that he would unmute the call when he was finished speaking. He
           shared that all of the Principals, the Director of Student Services and the Director of Finance were
           taking part in the call. They each took turns introducing themselves.

           Superintendent McAlduff explained that he would be providing an update on the school closure
           followed by the Principals and the Director of Student Services who would then provide brief updates
           regarding their Educational Engagement Plans that would be implemented during the closure.

           He summarized the events leading up to the school closure explaining that he had been in contact with
           other educational leaders and Superintendent’s throughout the state to discuss and monitor the spread
           of the Corona Virus. He shared that after many calls with the Massachusetts Association of School
           Superintendent’s that it was decided that school would be canceled for two weeks beginning Monday
           March 16th. He further explained that school remained in session for staff on Friday March 13 th so that
           staff could come together to develop a long-term plan in preparation for an extended closure.

           Superintendent McAluff clarified that it was not until after the decision to close for two weeks that
           guidance from the Governor on Sunday announced a statewide closure of all schools for three weeks to
           begin on March 17th through April 6th. He confirmed that April 7th would be the new target reopening
           date and noted that the date could still change as the situation was rapidly evolving and changing.

           It was mentioned that communications had gone out to parents regarding the retrieval of students’
           medicine, musical instruments and technology devices as buildings would remain closed during the
           closure. It was also noted that the Village School only would remain open to provide lunch to students
           that families could pick up Monday through Friday from 10-12pm at the side entrance closest to the
           cafeteria. Superintendent McAlduff shared that buildings were being cleaned one at a time and that the
           District would be planning for reduced staffing to be implemented by Thursday of that same week.
      It was also reported that the MIAA, the Massachusetts Interscholastic Athletic Association voted on
      March 16th to delay the start of the Spring sports season to April 27 th regardless of whether or not
      schools reopened sooner.

      After Superintendent McAlduff informed the committee about the recent school closure, the Principals
      shared their individual building plans for educational engagement during the closure period. It was
      explained that course work would be provided through Google Classroom and that other links to
      various learning platforms would be updated on the schools’ individual websites. Glover Principal, Mr.
      Ota mentioned that no new topics would be introduced at the lower elementary grades due to the
      developmental level of the students. It was also noted that the current plans would be implemented
      with no grading expectations and provided for continuity of learning and enrichment learning only.
      Teachers and support staff would be expected to block off up to at least ninety minutes of daily office
      hours to communicate with students and parents.

      Mr. Oxford, Director of Student Services shared that all of the Special Education Teachers and Service
      Providers would continue to collaborate with General Education Teachers and building principals to
      support the needs of their students. They would also adhere to holding daily office hours to
      communicate resources to be used at home for the specialty strand students. He shared that the Special
      Education Chairpersons would be assigned to a specific program or service provider to be the point of
      contact for support for both staff and families.

      Discussions pertaining to technology support for families, student access to home technology and the
      plan for potential compensatory services took place. Concerns regarding FAPE, the rights to a Free
      Appropriate Public Education were mentioned to which Mr. Oxford clarified that the current direction
      from the federal and state government was that there were no current expectations for following IEP’s
      precisely. He further shared that timelines and deadlines were temporarily paused and that meetings
      would be held virtually where and when it would make sense to do so.

      Other questions related to missed exams, graduation and potential budgetary implications were all
      raised and it was shared that it was expected that schools should be receiving further guidance from the
      state and DESE as the situation progresses. Superintendent McAlduff shared that the Principals would
      be setting up conference calls with staff for the remainder of the week to explain the current plan for
      learning from home and that correspondence would go out to parents letting them know to expect the
      information.

II.   Discussion of Personnel Status During the Period of School Closure
      Superintendent McAlduff shared that in addition to supporting the students; he felt that it was
      important to support the staff as well during such unprecedented times. He shared that he had
      instructed the business office to continue to pay employees and that he would recommend that the
      School Committee take official action to ensure all staff get paid during the closure.

      Ms. Gold made a motion to continue to pay all school employees throughout the period of school
      closure. The motion was moved by Ms. Schaeffner and seconded by Ms. Taylor.

      A discussion regarding the payment of all staff during an extended closure, beyond April 7 th took
      place. Ms. Schaeffner and Ms. Fox offered suggestions about how support staff could adjust to roles in
      the event the closure was extended. It was also shared that a decision regarding stipend positions had
      not yet been made.
             Ms. Fox inquired if the motion should be amended to agree to pay staff through the current closure of
             April 6th with the intention of the vote being revisited should the school be closed longer.

             Ms. Gold shared that she would like to keep the current motion and continue to support the hourly and
             part time workers most at risk.

             Ms. Taylor also mentioned that the salaries had already been budgeted for and that she fully supports
             the motion.

             After a discussion regarding whether or not the motion should be amended, it was decided that the
             original motion would remain and that the committee could always revisit the vote if an extended
             closure occurred. A roll call vote was taken

             Ms. Gold-yes

             Ms. Taylor-yes

             Ms. Fox-yes

             Ms. Schaeffner-yes

             Mr. Harris-yes

             The motion carries, 5-0 all in favor.

             Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 4:23pm.



                                                                                       Respectfully Submitted
                                                                                       Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                                       Marblehead School Committee

Approved June 4, 2020
