                            Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                       Thursday April 16, 2020 7:00pm
     Zoom Conference Call- https://zoom.us/j/345166574?pwd=V3oycVhtUDlueG1yWXMrazFBSVFCQT09
                                           Meeting ID: 345 166 574
                                               Password: 541232
                               OR Dial In (415) 762-9988 and follow the prompts

Members Present:                           Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Jennifer Schaeffner, David Harris
                                           and Sarah Fox

Also:                                      William, H. McAlduff Jr.-Interim Superintendent
                                           Michelle Cresta-Director of Finance


I.       Initial Business and Public Involvement
         1. Call to Order
              Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:08pm.
         2. Commendations
              Ms. Taylor shared that she wanted to recognize the Music Department for receiving the Best
              Communities in Education Award for 2020 for the 6 th year in a row. She read a prepared statement and
              congratulated the Department.
         3. Student Representative – Dan Howells
              Mr. Howells shared that remote learning officially began on April 7th and that Quarter 3 had ended and
              that Quarter 4 had begun. He informed the committee that Students would have until the 17th to turn in
              any missing Quarter 3 assignments that were late. Mr. Howells explained that assignments were
              structured on a weekly basis sharing that assignments would be posted at the beginning of the week
              and due at the end of the week. It was mentioned that grades would go towards final grades if students
              were to return by May 4th or the grading structure would become a pass/fail model. Mr. Howells shared
              that communication amongst teachers and students had been great with quick responses from teachers.
              He also mentioned that there seemed to be a good work balance. When asked by Ms. Gold how he was
              handling the social contact piece of being home, Mr. Howells reported that social media and phones
              helped but that there was some feelings of sadness with not being able to see others.
         4. Public Comment
              Mr. Jeff St. George 29 West Shore Dr. shared that as he was hearing great things about the remote
              learning plan at Tower and inquired if Ms. Gold would share input regarding their success. He shared
              his concerns about his 3rd and 6th graders missing out on virtual learning or recorded instruction.

             Ms. Gold reminded the community that the committee normally does not comment on public comment
             and that Mr. St. George’s concerns should be address during the closure update.

             Ms. Mary Dow of 7 Warwick Terrace shared that she had two students at Village. She read a prepared
             statement sharing that she felt Marblehead needed to start structured online teaching and instruction.
             She noted that prerecorded lessons could not replace live teaching through video.

             Ms. Catherine Martin of 29 West Shore Dr. shared her concerns regarding extended closure and the
             need for looking more closely at the technology framework and infrastructure so the students and staff
             could be better prepared if the Corona Virus were to resurface in the Fall. She also mentioned the
             potential need for additional nursing and custodial staff for temperature taking and more frequent
             cleanings.

             Mr. Blair Nelson 100 Elm St. thanked the committee, administrators and teachers for “all of their
             efforts during unheard of times.” He expressed his concerns regarding remote learning technology and
             how it was not working for his family. He noted that he felt it was not sustainable and that instructions
             needed to be more clear.

             Ms. Alastar Conor shared concerns about children missing the social piece of learning. She noted that
            younger children who cannot be on social media should be required in some way to interact with other
            students to force social interaction.

            Ms. Karin McCarthy of 15 Cloutmans Lane shared a Zoom chat message sharing that she could not
            stay for the meeting and shared “ Want to commend the VETS rollout—Feel like the program has gone
            quite well….My 8th grader feels like she has real work and has adapted well. Yes, on-line classes
            where kids could see and interact with teachers would be beneficial and make it all feel more like
            “real” school…I teach at college level and understand the pivot to on-line is hard even where some or
            much of the classroom material is ready for conversion to on-line—So I understand how it can feel
            daunting to teachers—but the substance of what is being done via on-line means currently feels
            relevant and engages my child…and that is a good thing. Hopefully teachers can add zoom or google
            chat time to their days—thank you to all for the efforts being put forth.”

II.    Consent Agenda and Action Items
       1. February 6, 2020
          Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the minutes from February 6, 2020. Ms. Schaeffner explained that
          she would be abstaining due to not having a chance to have read the minutes. The motion was moved
          by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox. A roll call vote was taken:

            Ms. Gold-Yes
            Ms. Taylor-Yes
            Ms. Fox-Yes
            Mr. Harris-Yes

            The motion carries in favor, 4-0 with one abstention.

III.   Superintendent Report
       Superintendent McAlduff appreciated the feedback and mentioned that the Remote Learning Plan would be
       adjusted as time went on and more guidance may be provided by the state. He also shared that staff had
       been asked to provide at least one live session per week with students. He reminded the community that
       everyone was working hard to better the process.
.
       1.   School Closure Update
            a. Field Trips
               Superintendent McAlduff reported that all field trips would be canceled through the remainder of
               the year even if there would be a return to school. He further explained that this would help keep
               the focus on learning. It was mentioned that annual and traditional activities would be scheduled if
               guidance from the Governor allowed.

            b.   Senior Activities
                 It was mentioned that the discussion on Senior Activities would be put on hold until May 7th when
                 more information would be available. Superintendent McAlduff explained that he was in contact
                 with High School Principal Mr. Bauer regarding making the best decisions moving forward
                 regarding cancellations, postponed trips and a plan for virtual graduation if necessary.

            c.   Re-Entry Plan Discussion
                 Superintendent McAlduff explained that the re-entry plan discussion was added at the request of
                 the committee. He clarified that he would like the committee to share their input regarding what
                 they would like the goals of the re-entry plan to be so he could note concerns.

                 Topics of discussion consisted of curriculum assessments and educational gaps, classroom setup
                 and programming upon return, budget implications directly related to additional nursing custodial
                 staff and cleaning supplies and the plan for immune compromised students who may not be able to
                 return to school.

       2.   Assistant Superintendent Hiring Update
            Superintendent McAlduff reminded the committee that he had reported on the hiring process for the
            Assistant superintendent at the meeting held on March 5th. He shared that a Search Advisory
            Committee had been established and that he was awaiting a response from a Kindergarten through 6 th
            grade parent representative. He shared the names of the participants:

            William McAlduff- Interim Superintendent
            Meagan Taylor-School Committee Representative
            Jennifer Schaeffner-School Committee Representative
            Michelle Cresta-Director of Finance
            Matthew Fox-Veterans Middle School Principal
            Brian Ota-Glover Elementary School Principal
            Robin Feins-High School English Teacher
            Jonathan Heller-Village School 6th Grade Teacher
            Eric Fargo-Glover Elementary School Physical Education Teacher
            Melissa Kaplowitch-Parent Representative Grades 7th-12th
            TBD-Parent Representative Grades K-6th
             *Dr. John Buckey-Incoming Superintendent would also be invited to take part

            It was explained that the search process would be about a month behind due to the closure and that
            there would be an upcoming virtual orientation to discuss parameters. It was also shared that a
            recommendation for appointment was originally planned to be shared on May 7 th and that the
            recommendation may be delayed until early June after virtual interviews had taken place and finalists
            had been identified.

IV.   Finance Organizational Support
      1. Schedule of Bills
         Ms. Gold asked for a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $1, 326, 898.29. The motion was
         moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox. Ms. Fox inquired if the utility reserve funds from the
         Town had kicked in yet to which Ms. Cresta informed her that it already had for water and that the they
         just hit the threshold for the electrical on the current schedule. A roll call vote was taken:

           Ms. Gold-Yes
           Ms. Taylor-Yes
           Ms. Fox-Yes
           Ms. Schaeffner-Yes
           Mr. Harris-Yes

           The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

      2.    FY21 Proposed Budget
            a. Timeline Update
               Superintendent McAlduff shared that the Board of Selectmen recently voted to move the Town
               Meeting from May 4th to Monday June 29th. He mentioned that committee would need to look at
               dates to hold their Budget Public Hearing and meet with the Town Finance Committee as next
               steps in the process to vote the FY21 proposed budget. It was mentioned that if a timeline
               following the closure was anticipated, the meeting with the Town Finance Committee could be
               held around May 25th instead of the originally planned date of March 30 th. It was also shared that
               scheduling could be further discussed during the Budget Subcommittee meeting scheduled for the
               following day. Potential dates June dates for voting on the budget and scheduling the hearing were
               discussed.

V.    School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
       1. Discussion on Remote Learning Plan Feedback Protocol
          Ms. Gold mentioned that she had spoken with Ms. Presser of MASC, the Massachusetts Association of
          School Committees regarding remote learning and suggested that districts follow the remote learning
          guidance being recommended by the state. Ms. Gold read a prepared statement.
          A conversation took place regarding the process that should be used to receive parent and community
         feedback regarding remote learning. Although no formal vote was taken, it was decided that feedback
         should be submitted via the link on the remote learning website that would go directly to the task force
         members. Mr. Harris confirmed with Superintendent McAlduff that he could relay any new feedback as
         it became available.

         Ms. Taylor and Ms. Schaeffner noted that it would be best to schedule a Policy Subcommittee meeting
         in the near future to address concerns surrounding remote learning and any other updates that may need
         to occur.

         Ms. Gold shared that it was also important to remember that lowering ones high expectations may need
         to be considered during such unprecedented times in an effort to support the social and emotional well-
         being of parents, students and staff. She noted that the remote learning process would continue to be
         evaluated and adjusted and that the district would also continue to compare other schools plans for
         helpful information and additional guidance.

         Mr. Harris noted that it was important to remember that teachers who also had children at home
         supporting their own children(s)’ academics were facing the challenges associated with balancing
         work/life responsibilities from home also.

         Superintendent McAlduff thanked the committee for their input sharing that their insight provided a
         view into looking at how the plan was working.

       2. School Building Project Update
          Mr. Harris shared that he had forwarded an email to the committee that had been received earlier in the
          day from Gilbane regarding an updated safety plan that would now include COVID19 protocols. He
          explained that hot water and an electrical soap dispenser had been brought to the site for frequent hand
          washing.

          It was also mentioned that the demolition and removal of the Upper Bell School foundation was
          nearing completion and that a test blast would be tentatively scheduled for Friday the 24 th. Mr. Harris
          mentioned that Police Chief Picariello would send out a robo call notifying the community of the
          blasting.

          Mr. Harris shared that RTA’s or recommendations to award service agreements for items such as
          waterproofing and underground plumbing and shared that electrical was underway and that the
          Architect, OPM and CM were all working well together.

          Concerns regarding supply chain delays was discussed and it was mentioned that no delays were
          currently expected and that the conversation could be continued at the next scheduled meeting being
          held the following Thursday.

VI.   Closing Business
      1. New Business
          A request for public comment was made. Ms. Gold made a motion to allow for public comment and a
          roll call vote was taken:

          Ms. Gold-Yes
          Mr. Harris-Yes
          Ms. Taylor-Yes
          Ms. Fox-Yes
          Ms. Schaeffner-Yes

          Ms. Natalie Belli of 8 Gerry St and Village School Teacher shared that she wanted to give a shout out
          to students who were helping each other out to navigate new technology. She recognized the
              digital citizenship kids were showing and commended them on interacting and sharing in other ways
              that supported the social and emotional well-being of their classmates.

              Ms. Rachel Leavitt of 7 Countryside Lane and 1st Grade Teacher at Coffin School commended her
              son’s Occupational Therapist for sending a video to help him learn to tie his shoe. She noted that even
              though children were not in the classroom that it was proof that students could still learn. She also
              mentioned that she was using Zoom to schedule two classroom meetings a week. She further reported
              that setting up a Zoom for the entire class was challenging for teaching but good for social
              engagement. Ms. Leavitt mentioned that students were struggling with sitting for longer periods of
              time to wait to share and that smaller groups structure or different avenues may be best.

              Ms. Dana Trudeau of 12 Gregg St. in Beverly and 5th Grade Science Teacher at Village School shared
              her concerns surrounding Zoom meetings. She explained that being a parent teaching both her own
              children and working from home to teach was challenging. She also commended the Village staff for
              coming together for remote learning and thanked the parents reminding them that they could reach out
              anytime.

              Ms. Taylor thanked the teachers for staying on the late call knowing they needed to be up early to
              teach.

              Ms. Fox thanked Ms. Leavitt for sharing her personal story and what was and was not working with
              Zoom teaching.

         2.   Adjournment
              Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 8:56pm.



                                                                                         Respectfully Submitted
                                                                                         Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                                         Marblehead School Committee

Approved June 18, 2020
