                          Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                        December 3, 2020 7:00pm
           Zoom https://zoom.us/j/92631079825?pwd=czg5OFlHbWVhU0pzeXFOUGZjZnBJQT09
                                        Meeting ID: 926 3107 9825
                                            Password: 084783

  Members Present:                      Sarah Gold, Emily Barron, Sarah Fox and David Harris

  Members Not Present:                  Meagan Taylor

  Also:                                 Dr. John J. Buckey-Superintendent
                                        Nan Murphy-Assistant Superintendent
                                        Michelle Cresta-Director of Finance
                                        Jason Silva, Town Administrator

      I.   Initial Business and Public Involvement
           1. Call to Order
               Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:04pm
           2. Commendations
                 a. Building Based Commendations-Principal Sean Satterfield-Eveleth & Coffin Schools
                        Teachers were commended for their hard work in planning and implementing
                           remote lessons
                        Staff members were recognized for creating virtual weekly meetings to bring
                           students together
                        Tutors were commended for teaching additional remote support service classes
                        The building secretaries were thanked for keeping the daily operations of the
                           buildings going noting that “they were truly the heart of the buildings.”

                b. S.C Commendations
                   Ms. Fox spoke about the positive experience her remote first grader was having. She
                      also commended the Student Service Department for all their efforts providing
                      services for students on IEP’s.
                   Ms. Gold thanked Food Services Director, Richard Kelleher for all the work he has
                      done for the meals program.
                   The teachers were commended for all of their work preparing and attending
                      parent/teacher conferences during a difficult year.
                   Dr. Buckey recognized Student Services Director, Eric Oxford for completing his
                      doctoral dissertation.
                   Ms. Gold noted before moving forward with the next agenda item that committee
                      member, Meagan Taylor was not in attendance.
           3. Student Representative – Dan Howells
              It was confirmed that Mr. Howells was also not in attendance and would join the committee
              at the next regularly scheduled December meeting.
           4. Public Comment
              None
II.        Consent Agenda and Action Items
           1. Minutes:
              9/17/2020
              Ms. Gold made a motion to approve minutes from September 17th 2020. The motion was
              moved by Mr. Harris and seconded by Ms. Fox. A roll call vote was taken.
           Ms. Gold-yes
           Ms. Barron-yes
           Ms. Fox-yes
           Mr. Harris-yes

           The motion passes 4-0

       2. Acceptance of Bench Donation
          Mr. Harris shared that he had been contacted by community member, Mr. Bob Till’s family
          regarding donating a bench in memory of his name. Mr. Harris shared that Mr. Till was a
          regular sports spectator and community supporter.

           Ms. Gold made a motion to approve acceptance of a donation of a bench in memory of Mr.
           Bob Till for placement at Piper Field. The motion was moved by Mr. Harris and seconded by
           Ms. Fox. A roll call vote was taken.

           Ms. Gold-yes
           Ms. Barron-yes
           Ms. Fox-yes
           Mr. Harris –yes

           The motion passes, 4-0.

           Ms. Gold thanked both the Dumais and Till families for the thoughtful donation.

III.   Superintendent Report
       Dr. Buckey addressed the community stating that December would be a hard month due to the
       holidays and the pandemic which would make fears, anxiety and frustrations already in place
       even higher. He asked that staff and students continue to lean into their work doing the best they
       can while also continuing to abide by quarantine travel guidelines. He asked that all educators and
       families come together to work hard and do the right thing so that in-person learning could
       continue on for as long as possible.

       1. Superintendent’s Goals Update
          Dr. Buckey updated the committee on his goals sharing that he was part of a new
          Superintendents Induction-Program and that the group held monthly meetings that were very
          informative. He also shared that his mentor Ms. Chris McGrath attends the leadership team
          meetings and provides additional coaching sessions.

           He further reported that that he had completed close to twenty five (25) entry meetings with
           school personnel and that he would be scheduling with Town members next. It was
           mentioned that regularly scheduled meetings are held with the Director of Finance and the
           Town Administrator.

           Dr. Buckey mentioned that the Leadership Team was reading a book “Lead like a Pirate” and
           that he would be meeting with the principals in the coming weeks to discuss the needs of each
           of their buildings. It was also mentioned that Teach Point, the new system for evaluating
           educators had been launched.
          Dr. Buckey introduced and welcomed the new Director of Technology, Stephen Kwiatek to
          Marblehead sharing that he had been with Manchester Essex as their Network Administrator
          for the last 20 years. He shared that Mr. Kwiatek has been involved with two school building
          projects and that he was very familiar with Aspen.

         Mr. Kwiatek shared that he enjoyed his time in Manchester and was excited to join
         Marblehead while bringing their technology to new levels. His official start date would be
         December 14th.
IV.   Finance Organizational Support
      1. Schedule of Bills
         Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $2,394,070.10 .The motion
         was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken.

          Ms. Gold-yes
          Ms. Barron-yes
          Ms. Fox-yes
          Mr. Harris-yes

          The motion passes, 4-0

V.    School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
       1. Town Administrator-Jason Silva
           Town Administrator Jason Silva joined the school committee to discuss the collective
           bargaining process and to inform the committee of the ideas that have been mentioned
           regarding the use of the school properties that will be vacant once the new elementary
           school is complete.
          a. Collective Bargaining Process
              Mr. Silva explained that he had been selected by the Board of Selectmen to be part of the
              Collective Bargaining Subcommittee. He shared that he had already been part of one
              meeting to start the conversation. It was noted that the process would be unique during a
              unique year.
          b. School Properties Discussion
              Mr. Silva shared that planning efforts were underway to discuss the use of school owned
              properties after the new elementary school was built. He explained that major efforts
              involved with the school owned properties would include:
                   A hearing scheduled later in December to propose that the Gerry School property
                       that was transferred to Town house eight (8) new condo units which would
                       provide access to more affordable housing in Town.
                   The Coffin School property being assessed as a planning exercise to uncover the
                       potential development opportunities. It would be an inclusive experience with
                       school committee members, stakeholder and neighborhood involvement.
                   The Eveleth School being considered as a site for a new community ice rink. Mr.
                       Silva shared that the Town had received over two million dollars form the Lars
                       Anderson Trust which expressly
                       stated that the funding be used for winter sports.
                   The School Administration Offices located at 9 Widger Rd. being selected as the
                       site for a new archive facility. It was mentioned that this would likely be passed
                       at the annual meeting the next year and not during the 2021 school year.
             It was noted that further conversation with the school department and the Town should
             occur to discuss options and taking advantage of planning exercises to determine optimal
             use of the properties.
             It was mentioned that the next step may be to set up an advisory committee and Ms. Fox
             shared that she would have an interest in serving on such committee. Ms. Gold thanked
             Town Administrator, Jason Silva for his partnership and support.

      2. Committee and Liaison Updates
         Ms. Gold shared that there was a full update at the last November meeting since all
         subcommittee meetings take place during the second week of the month. She noted that the
         committee would be more mindful of the flow of the updates moving forward.

      3. Building Project Update
          Ms. Gold shared a Power Point from Mr. Harris displaying photos of the entryway and
          inside of the building project. Mr. Harris shared that mock-ups of classrooms were being
          completed for wiring layout and door placement. He noted that great traffic flow was to be
          expected with the placement of the parking lot location.
          Mr. Harris informed the committee that there would be a meeting Monday to confirm the
          guaranteed maximum price of the project. It was noted that eighty five percent of the project
          had been bought out and that landscaping and windows needed to be finalized. Mr. Harris
          was happy to report that the project continued to be on time and within budget.

VI.   Closing Business
      1. New Business Correspondence
         Ms. Gold mentioned that the discussion for an MCAS resolution would be added to the
         agenda on the 17th.
         Before adjourning the meeting Dr. Buckey congratulated Technology Director Kathleen
         Hennessey on her retirement and thanked her for the extra hours she worked since COVID
         started sharing she deserved a break from her many years of service with the Marblehead
         Public Schools.

      2. Adjournment
         The meeting adjourned at 8:15pm.

                                                                       Respectfully Submitted
                                                                      Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                      Marblehead School Committee

      Approved January 7, 2021
