Policy Subcommittee Meeting - 9/18/2020
Front Conference Room
9 Widger Road, Marblehead MA

Participants: Sarah Gold, Emily Barron, John Buckey, Lisa Dimier

Call to order: 9:04am

It was agreed to do a comprehensive review of the I policies first and we will begin with policy
IHGB.
Ms Gold reported that Dorothy Presser advised that effective Policy Subcommittees review
around ⅓ of their policy manual each year.

Policy ADDA - Background Checks
Ms Dimier stated that there seem to be questions around the District about the wording of the
policy and what an “unmonitored contact” would be and it seems to be different at the various
school buildings. The District needs to be consistent with whether volunteers need background
checks and fingerprinting or if a CORI is sufficient.

Policy IJOC, Volunteers was referenced as it seems like the volunteer designation is the unclear
aspect.
Ms Dimier noted that bussing companies and their drivers and monitors would all need CORIs
and fingerprinting as would subcontractors in the buildings.

It was decided that Ms Dimier would find a webinar on CORI and Fingerprinting to learn more
about best practices within districts and we would revisit these policies after that happens.
Ms Gold stated she would reach out to Dorothy Presser to inquire on the availability of these
webinars and Ms Dimier would reach out to her listserv to see if there were any suggestions.

Policy IHBG - Homeschooling
A discussion around the current policy detailed that Nan Murphy believes we need a new form
and that assessments are a concern under the current policy. It was noted that a question that
is concerning administration is if instruction is inadequate, what is the process for remedy? Dr
Buckey stated that Ms Murphy believes #6 on the policy needs a process.

Dr Buckey also pointed out that the homeschooling form should be on the website and there
should be exhibits on what it should look like.

Questions to check on for the next meeting should be:
1. What are other districts doing in their policies?
2. Do we need a withdrawal form for tracking of these students?
3. Eric Oxford will report on how the policy will impact out-of-district students who choose to be
homeschooled.
Approval of Minutes from 9/4/2020. Motion was made by Ms Barron and seconded by Dr
Buckey. Minutes were approved in a 3-0 vote.

The date of the next Policy subcommittee meeting was discussed. It was decided that it would
be on October 2, 2020 at 9:00am at Widger Road. Ms Gold would work with Ms Dimier to find
an appropriate conference room for the meeting.

Ms Barron stated she would follow up with Dorothy Presser from MASC about how a district
gets their policy manual added onto the MASC website.

Meeting was adjourned at 9:46am.

Respectfully Submitted,
Sarah Gold, chairperson
