                           Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                               March 27, 2020
                                     Zoom Web Conference 12:00 PM
                              Zoom Conference Call-Meeting ID:218 902 017
                                        https://zoom.us/j/218902017

Members Present:                        Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Jennifer Schaeffner
                                        David Harris and Sarah Fox

Also:                                   William, H. McAlduff Jr.-Interim Superintendent
                                        Michelle Cresta-Director of Finance
                                        Eric Oxford-Director of Student Services

    I.     Call to Order
           Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 12:05pm.

    II.    II. Discussion on Extended School Closure
           Superintendent McAlduff provided an update on the extended closure of schools clarifying that the
           closure would be extended through May4th instead of the originally planned date of April 6 th. He
           shared that he had recently received guidance from DESE regarding implementing a remote learning
           plan and that the document would be posted online for reference. He explained that DESE had been in
           contact with various committees and organizations such as the Massachusetts Association of School
           Superintendents, the Massachusetts Association of School Committees, the Massachusetts Teachers
           Associations and Parent Teacher Associations to develop recommendations for remote learning.
           Superintendent McAlduff noted that DESE had stated in their letter that prioritizing the health, safety
           and wellness of students and families remained a primary focus throughout the closure. He further
           shared that it was noted that remote learning could not replace the learning that takes place in school
           communities and that it should first focus on the holistic needs of the educational community.

           It was mentioned that the task force created to develop an extensive remote learning plan would consist
           of the Superintendent and the Assistant Superintendent, Mr. John Moretti, the Director of Student
           Services, Mr. Eric Oxford, the Director of Technology, Ms. Kathy Hennessey, Union Representative,
           Joan Miller, the Director of ELL, Ms. Emily Dean, METCO Director, Ms. Jasmine Boyd-Perry and
           School Psychologist, James Slavet along with the Principals. Superintendent McAlduff explained that
           the task force would bring their developed remote learning plan ideas to the Superintendent by
           Wednesday March 29th for discussion and adjustments. Per DESE guidelines, the goal would be to
           implement the plan by early April which Marblehead would be on track to do.

           Concerns were raised about school technology policies and privacy laws related to remote learning via
           Zoom and other video platforms. Discussions pertaining to the grading structure(s) that would be used
           and the social emotional needs of the students took place. Superintendent McAlduff explained that
           many of the School Committee’s concerns were being looked into and reminded the committee that
           flexibility would be important as the remote learning plan was implemented and adjusted to
           accommodate the needs of the community. It was also noted that the Guidance Counselors and School
           Psychologists had been checking in with many families since the original closure began and that they
           would continue to do so during the extended closure period. He further mentioned that additional
           guidance could be expected from DESE and the Governor and that updates would be shared as soon as
           he had received them.

           Superintendent McAlduff mentioned that limiting the number of platforms used to access remote
           learning curriculum should be a primary focus for consistency and ease of use across multiple
           buildings at the Kindergarten through Third Grade levels most specifically. Additionally, he confirmed
           that the plan needed to define the scope and components of remote learning while implementing
           guidelines for providing feedback to students.
             Mr. Oxford confirmed that the Special Education piece of remote learning would be more clearly
             defined after Wednesday as more information was provided and gathered. It was noted that the
             possibility of compensatory services may need to be further explored and could also be discussed as
             more state guidelines became available.

             A conversation discussing MCAS testing took place. It was explained that legislation could grant the
             Massachusetts Commissioner of Education temporary authority to modify, postpone or waive MCAS
             testing requirements. Superintendent McAlduff informed the committee that Massachusetts had
             applied for a waiver that is awaiting approval. He also shared that the Commissioner was advocating
             for school districts to continue to pay their employees along with O.O.D Tuition and transportation
             bills.

             A conversation discussing the 185th day of school occurred. It was noted that the final day for students
             and staff was expected to be June 24th. It was further explained that there could be the possibility of
             having the final day fall on June 18th if school remained open during April break and that collective
             bargaining implications associated with the decision would need to be looked into prior to any voting
             that would take place.

             Superintendent McAlduff also mentioned that the state would be expecting Federal Grant money going
             through legislation that could be used to address learning gaps that had come about from the school
             closure.

             Ms. Gold confirmed that the next scheduled meeting would be April 2 nd at 7pm.

             Ms. Fox made a motion to open the meeting to public comment. A roll call vote was taken.

             Ms. Gold-yes
             Ms. Taylor-yes
             Ms. Fox-yes
             Ms. Schaeffner-yes
             Mr. Harris- not present for the vote

             Ms. Erin Noonan thanked the administrators and task force for “the resources provided in the midst of
             a crisis.” She shared that she had a 1st, 4th and 5th grade student in Marblehead and explained that she
             felt parents would be looking for more clarity on what their expectations would be. She mentioned that
             the organization and streamlining of materials would help the remote learning process feel less
             overwhelming. She also mentioned that hard copy packets would work well for the younger grade
             students.

    III.     Adjournment
             Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 1:36pm and informed the community to please email any questions
             to schoolcommittee@marbleheadschools.org



                                                                                         Respectfully Submitted
                                                                                         Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                                         Marblehead School Committee

Approved June 4, 2020
