  I.   Initial business
       1. Ms. Gold called the meeting to Order at 7:06pm
       2. Commendation
            Ms. Fox commended all the staff and students on the hard work that went into
             getting the first week off the ground. Ms. Fox noted that although some issues
             arose the staff kept their composure, patience and grace and for that she was
             impressed.

          Other members of the committee concurred with Ms. Fox’s statement.
       3. Student Representative
          Dan Howells gave an update on the first week of school. Mr. Howells noted “One
          word he would pick to describe the first week of school would be “weird” “ Mr.
          Howells wanted to acknowledge all the work teachers put into getting ready for the
          new year. He also noted the all school assembly was a nice idea to see everyone.
          Dan shared that he had nothing further to report given the current situation.
       4. Public Comment
          John Wipple of 106 Atlantic Avenue spoke on behalf of the MHD Ministerial
          association. He read a statement in solidarity with the MHD Ministerial association
          condemning all actions of racism, antisemitism, and bigotry of any form.

II. Consent agenda and action items
    1. Minutes
       Ms. Gold noted that it was on the agenda to approve several meetings worth of
       minutes but that due to scheduling constraints, the committee would only be looking at
       minutes from the June 4, 2020 meeting

       a. Approval of minutes for June 4, 2020
          Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the minutes from June 4, 2020
          Moved by Meagan Taylor and 2nd by Emily Barron.
          Roll call vote

           Sarah Gold         Yes
           Meagan Taylor      Yes
           Sarah Fox          Yes
           Emily Barron       Yes
           David Harris       Yes

             Motion passed 5-0
III. Superintendent Report
     1. Opening day report
        Dr Buckey stated that opening day was successful. Dr Buckey noted a parent who was
        initially opposed to a remote start emailed to praise the decision after the remote start.
        Dr. Buckey stated this reinforced his confidence in the decision to start remote. Dr.
   Buckey also stated many emails have come in noting remote learning to date has been
   much different when compared to the past experience in the spring.

   Dr. Buckey noted that rigorous learning will start in earnest in the second week of
   school. He stated that the first few days typically are more getting to know each other
   and that in the remote setting it is still very important. Dr. Buckey complimented the staff
   and reiterated how important the two weeks of professional learning were prior to
   opening.

   Dr. Buckey noted that he gave the reopening a B+. He stated it went well but that there
   were glitches and room for improvement. Overall it went well Dr. Buckey surmised.

   Meagan Taylor said she was really happy with the way the opening went.

   Sarah Fox asked about the schedules and if adjustments would be coming. Ms. Fox
   noted that concerns have arisen at the secondary level on the days that are ending
   early. Dr. Buckey stated that there will be clarification forthcoming and that learning will
   be happening for a full school day at every level.

   Emily Barron asked due to the rates in Marblehead being low when the students could
   be brought back full time. Dr. Buckey answered due to using the BOH guidelines of 6ft
   we cannot bring everyone back but noted that if the distancing guidelines changed they
   could bring back more students.
2. Enrollment Update
   Dr. Buckey noted the Superintendent’s Association did an enrollment study to
   look for trends. Dr. Bucky tried to mirror that survey when giving the enrollment
   report. He shared that enrollment was down 255 students based on what was projected
   during the budget development process.

   Sarah Fox asked if any discussion had been made regarding the reduction of revenue
   via the state funding. Ms. Fox voiced the concern that this would be a significant impact
   on the town revenue and asked that the town be brought into the discussion as soon as
   possible in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU).

   Dr. Buckey noted no discussion had been made with the town to date but that he
   has regularly scheduled monthly meetings with the Town Administrator and Chair
   of the Finance Committee and would be sharing the information with them.

   Ms. Fox asked that an update on the discussion be made at the next meeting to which
   Dr. Buckey acknowledged.
3. Personnel Update
   Dr. Buckey referenced the list of personnel shared with the committee.

   Sarah Fox asked about the Glover inclusion position that was listed as a new
     Position noting that this was not a new position identified during the budget process.

     Dr. Buckey deferred to Eric Oxford and Michelle Cresta who both corrected the
     information and noted that the position was not new but rather a movement and
     retitling of existing personnel.

4.   DESE requirements for
     a. Protocols for Reporting Covid-19 Positive Cases

     Nan Murphy referenced a conference call where she got new guidance on
     reporting Covid cases. Deanna McMahon will be the lead on reporting both daily
     numbers and the Beginning September 14, 2020 Districts will be required to report all
     cases in the schools.


     b. Requesting Mobile Rapid Response Unit
        Nan Murphy noted guidance for rapid response unit deployment. Deanna
        McMahon will be the lead on the Covid mobile rapid response units. Ms. Murphy
        noted it is very prescriptive when a rapid response unit can be requested and how
        the request would be approved or denied. Parents have the right to approve or
        deny their child being tested during a rapid response scenario and if a parent denies
        their child to be tested the child will be allowed to continue to attend school.

         Ms Gold noted the clear description of who would be considered a contact was very
         helpful.

         Ms Taylor asked if there was any information regarding test result timelines. Ms
         Murphy replied, no. Ms Taylor if there was more information on when and how rapid
         response units would be deployed. Ms Murphy noted she would ask for further
         information if the opportunity arose.

         Helene Hazlett noted that although autonomous from the school department the
         board of health is in support of these guidelines. Ms Hazlett wanted to remind that
         all cases in the schools would also be reported to the health department.

         Sarah Fox asked if positive cases would be reported that are present in the schools
         via student and staff that are not reflected in the town numbers due to the fact that
         not all staff and students in our system are residents of Marblehead.

         Meagan Taylor worried that releasing that information may cause undue stress and
         may violate privacy.

         Nan Murphy stated she and Dr. Buckey would discuss further what would be
         appropriate as far as reporting positive cases to the public.
5. Fall sports Season I update- Greg Ceglarski
   Greg Ceglarski noted that in August MIAA introduced a fall II floating season that would
   run February to April for high risk sports. Since last meeting 7 NEC schools have been
   approved to play the Fall I season. Mr. Ceglarski asked for a vote to clarify if the
   committee was voting to approve playing a traditional Fall I season or to vote to stay with
   our current vote of postponing the entire Fall I Season to Fall II.

   Sarah Gold asked Mr. Ceglarski if students would have an opportunity to ride to and
   from games with parents. Dr Buckey answered that he felt this would be possible via a
   waiver. Emily Barron stated she had same thought about a waiver for transportation
   due to families being uncomfortable with safety concerns of bussing. Mr. Ceglarski
   cautioned that it be only the parent driving the student.

   Sarah Fox asked if bussing would add another layer of coaches needing to police
   behavior. Mr. Ceglarski stated that yes there would need to be strict guidelines in place.
   Dr Buckey reinforced that these guidelines needed to be strictly adhered to or risk play
   being cancelled.

   Sarah Fox asked if Mr. Ceglarski was recommending that Fall I to would begin
   September 22. Mr. Ceglarski answered that it was the decision of the school committee.

   David Harris asked why we (Marblehead) are a follower rather than a leader and why we
   didn't make this decision sooner. Mr. Ceglarski noted it was partly timing of our meeting
   and partly making sure that we are being thorough and thoughtful in our decision and
   making sure that we are making the safety of our student athletes a priority. Sarah Gold
   stated that she felt the timing was in line with what was possible. Sarah Fox stated she
   was part of the reopening athletics and activities committee and saw firsthand how
   thoughtful and collaborative the process was. Ms. Fox stated that the committee at all
   times used getting students back to playing as soon as was safe.

   Sarah Gold asked if the bussing issues would affect METCO students being able to
   participate in sports. Mr. Ceglarski noted he was scheduled to speak with Nan Murphy
   and Jasmine Boyd Perry the next day regarding METCO participation.

   Sarah Gold asked if a supplemental policy would be needed for the masking of athletes.
   Mr. Ceglarski noted MIAA has a strict mask policy in place.

   David Harris restated that he felt Marblehead should be more of a leadership position.
   He stated he was upset that we were following other towns and wanted to be a leader.
   He stated athletics are very important and he is disappointed that we are the last school
   to decide to play. Mr. Ceglarski thanked Mr. Harris for his feedback.
      Jasmin stated she wanted to know how we were handling mixed cohorts and how that
      would adversely affect the METCO students. She also asked what the locker room
      protocols would be. Mr Ceglarski noted that no locker rooms would be used.

      Sarah Fox asked if Ms Boid felt equal access would be available for METCO students
      with transportation issue.

      Motion to allow fall sports season with the exclusion of Football, Cheer and Volleyball to
      commence on September 22, 2020.

        The motion was moved by Meagan Taylor and 2nd by Emily Barron
        Roll call vote
        Sarah Gold           Yes
        Meagan Taylor        Yes
        Sarah Fox            Yes
        Emily Barron         Yes
        David Harris         Yes
        Motion passed 5-0
IV. Finance organizational support
    1. Schedule of Bills
        Motion to approve schedule of bills totaling $264,152.40
        The motion was moved by Meghan Taylor and seconded by Emily Barron
        Roll call vote
        Sarah Gold           Yes
        Meagan Taylor        Yes
        Sarah Fox            Yes
        Emily Barron         Yes
        David Harris         Yes

      Motion passed 5-0
   2. Contract to award temporary Custodial Staffing
      Michelle Cresta recommended the bid be awarded to the lowest bidder for up to 14 full
      weeks of full time status.

      Ms. Taylor asked how we are funding this. Ms. Cresta noted the funding source would
      be the CARES act funding. Ms. Taylor asked if that funding source was almost
      exhausted. Ms. Cresta shared that the district had almost exhausted the funding source.

      Mr. Harris wanted to know how we are justifying the cost when we will be in hybrid. Ms.
      Cresta noted that if students are in the building, even in reduced numbers, we will need
      to disinfect much more often to ensure safety.
      Motion to award bid for temporary custodial staffing to Go To Services Inc out of East
      Providence, RI for the amount of $320,096.00 and authorize the chair to sign the
      contract on behalf of the committee.
      Moved by Meghan Taylor and seconded by Emily Barron
      Roll call vote

      Sarah Gold            Yes
      Meagan Taylor         Yes
      Sarah Fox             Yes
      Emily Barron          Yes
      David Harris          Yes

       Motion passed 5-0
V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion Items
    a. Policy ACAB-Sexual Harassment
       Ms. Gold made a motion to accept policy ACAB on Sexual Harassment
       The motion was moved by Meghan Taylor and seconded by Emily Barron
       Roll call vote

      Sarah Gold            Yes
      Meagan Taylor         Yes
      Sarah Fox             Yes
      Emily Barron          Yes
      David Harris          Yes

      Motion passed 5-0
   b. Policy EBC Supplemental Emergency Plans for Covid-19
      Ms. Gold made a motion to adopt policy EBC Supplemental for emergency plans for
      COVID 19.
      The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron.

      Roll call vote

      Sarah Gold                     yes
      Meagan Taylor                  yes
      Emily Barron                   yes
      David Harris                   yes
      Sarah Fox                      yes

      Motion passed 5-0

      2. Discussion on Resolutions
         a. Covid Testing
            Meghan Taylor noted that the resolution originated with Lincoln Sudbury and was
            sent through the MASC message boards so she decided to bring it to our
            attention. It was noted that she no longer felt we needed to move forward with this.
            Sarah Gold stated she is not comfortable with the “therefore be it resolved” section
            of the resolution. She stated she felt we are bringing our students back in a safe
            way and this resolution is not necessary. Ms. Taylor agreed with Ms. Gold. Ms.
            Fox stated that although she agrees with the resolution, she feels that our district
            has already put in place plans that contradict the said resolution therefore
            devaluing it. Ms. Gold asked for a motion. No motion was made.
          b. Social Justice
             Emily Barron stated she feels we need this resolution to ensure racial equality.
             See attached resolution.
             The motion was moved by Sarah Fox and seconded by Meagan Taylor

              Roll call vote

              Sarah Gold            Yes
              Meagan Taylor         Yes
              Sarah Fox             Yes
              Emily Barron          Yes
              David Harris          Yes

              Motion passed 5-0

4. School Committee Website Update
   Meagan Taylor shared a mock up of the proposed School Committee Website. The site
   will be one stop shopping for community information for meeting agendas, minutes and
   contact information. The site will be presented to the School Committee on October 1
   meeting with a live date goal of October 5, 2020.
5. Building Project Update
    David Harris shared an image of the Building Permit for the new school project. Mr.
   Harris noted the building permit was recently obtained. Steel erection is complete and
   concrete has been poured for the second floor. Mr. Harris noted the project is on time
   and budget.
VI. Closing Business
    1. New Business
         Emily Barron noted she, Sarah Gold and Dr. Buckey attended the rotary METCO
         presentation this week. Ms. Barron noted she learned a lot about the METCO program
         that she did not previously know.

       Ms. Fox asked if there was a place on the website that people can find ways to get
       involved with the METCO program. Ms. Fox noted the METCO students are
       disproportionately affected by COVID-19 and wanted to make it easier to connect people
   who wanted to help. Ms. Boyd Perry noted people can email her and she can facilitate
   that involvement.

   Meagan Taylor stated that the new school committee website would be a place people
   potentially could get more information.

   David Harris asked Dr. Buckey if he had any updates for week II as we bring week I to a
   close. Dr. Buckey said work would be ongoing and the goal will be aligning the grade
   levels.

2. Correspondence
   See attached letter from Seaside regarding professional development commending
   Marblehead educators on their professionalism and level of preparedness and
   engagement.

   Ms. Taylor noted her gratitude for the central administration in a job well done.

   Ms. Gold noted she has also noted a change in the feel when entering the central
   administration offices and that she is very excited for our district.

3. Meeting Adjourned at 9:18
