                                               11/5/2020 Minutes
I. Initial Business and Public Involvement
   a. Call to Order
      Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:02pm and noted everyone who was in attendance.
      She also informed the committee that the meeting was being live streamed to you tube and
      on the new school committee website.
 2. Commendations
     a. Principals Commendations-Village School, Mandy Murphy
         Principal Murphy highlighted the resiliency of her students for showing up every day ready to
         learn during a difficult year. She also commended the Parent/Teacher Association, PTO for the
         work they put in cleaning up the Village Organic Garden so the outdoor space could be utilized as
         an additional location for outdoor learning while appropriate social distancing guidelines were
         followed. Principal Murphy also thanked the staff members who have covered classrooms so that
         Individualized Educational Program (IEP) meetings could take place. The Allied Arts Teachers
         were also commended for their support in creating cross curricular blocks. The Tutors were
         thanked for supporting remote learning along with student check-ins. Principal Murphy noted
         how proud she was of her teachers and staff for all of their hard work.
     b. School Committee Commendations
         Ms. Gold commended the Bell/ Coffin/ Glover PTO for hosting the Halloween Boo Through last
         Friday. She also commended the administrators and Superintendent Buckey for dressing up and
         participating in the event during the unexpected snowy weather.

        Ms. Gold also shared the exciting news that the high school acapella group recently released a
        new album called Six Feet Apart which would be available on Apple Music, Spotify and You
        Tube.

        Ms. Fox commended the Village School for following their motto “KEOW” (Keeping Each other
        Well) and how as a parent she could see that it was being implemented every day when as she
        stated, “staff regularly comes to work with a smile on their faces.”
 3. Student Representative – Dan Howells
   • The last day of the full two week remote learning would end on Friday November 6th and students
       would return to the hybrid learning model on Monday
   • The High School acapella group, the Jewel Tones released their second album consisting of eight
       songs and the album could be found on Apple Music, Spotify and You Tube
   • Wednesday was peer mentor check in day for Freshmen
   • A video game league has been started at the High School with tournaments taking place on the
       12th and 19th
   • A students listening session was held earlier that day for juniors and seniors and Mr. Howells
       shared that hearing from students was appreciated
 4. Public Comment
   High School Spanish Teacher and Boys V soccer Mr. Elmer Magana spoke about the live streaming
   conversation being discussed in many school districts. He shared that his wife who was a teacher in a
   local school district experienced various technical difficulties relating to microphone projection issues
   and video lag time. He recommended having teachers and staff test classrooms prior to implementing
   any live streaming and also suggested the possibility of an exploratory committee.

   Committee member Mr. Harris thanked Elmer for coming forward to discuss challenges sharing that it
   was helpful information to have.
    Kate Thomson of thanked the committee for posting the most recently voted minutes and for working
    hard to get the minutes up to date which the community members would appreciate.
II. Consent Agenda and Action Items
   1. Minutes:
      a. 6/8/2020, 6/10/2020, 8/6/2020, 8/20/2020, 9/17/2020, 10/1/2020
           Ms. Gold asked the committee if there were any clarifications needed or edits suggested for the
           many sets of minutes. Ms. Taylor informed the committee that she would be abstaining from the
           October 1st meeting as she was unable to review them. She also reminded the committee that the
           approval of the September 17th minutes were pending edits that were not complete. Ms. Fox
           confirmed that the September 17th minutes would not be available until the next meeting. The
           committee agreed to not vote the September 17th minutes until the next November meeting.

          Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the minutes from 6/8/2020, 6/10/2020, 8/6/2020 and
          8/20/2020. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox. Ms. Taylor noted
          that Superintendent McAlduff’s name was misspelled throughout the June 8th minutes and
          suggested working with the Superintendent’s Administrative Assistant to locate any other
          corrections needed. A roll call vote was taken.

          Ms. Gold-yes
          Ms.Taylor-yes
          Ms.Barron-yes
          Ms.Fox-yes
          Mr. Harris-yes

          The motion passed, 5-0.

          Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the 10/1/2020 minutes. The motion was moved by Ms. Fox
          and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken.

          Ms. Gold-yes
          Ms. Taylor-abstained
          Ms. Barron-yes
          Mr. Fox-yes
          Mr. Harris-yes

          The motion passes 4-0-1.

         Ms. Taylor inquired if the minutes were now up to date to which Ms. Gold noted that minutes
         from the July 8th and August 10th meetings had not been completed. Ms. Fox confirmed that
         those minutes would be complete for one of the next meetings. Ms. Gold informed that the
         Superintendent’s Assistant, Lisa would be responsible for the regularly scheduled 1st and 3rd
         meetings of the month moving forward and that Ms. Fox would be responsible for the off cycle
         meetings and executive sessions. Ms. Fox mentioned making former executive session minutes
         available to the public.
III. Superintendent Report
   1. Superintendent’s Update
       a. Technology and Live Streaming Update
           Superintendent Buckey provided an update regarding live streaming options that he and the
           Director of technology were researching. It was explained that he was speaking with other
           districts that were utilizing live streaming devices to gather information pertaining to cost and
           user experience. He also noted that a staff listening session was held the day before and that a
           high school student listening session took place earlier that same day. Superintendent Buckey
           informed the committee that the tech company Valley Communications provided a demo of
           their live streaming device on Monday during the leadership team meeting. He further shared
           that a few devices would be delivered to pilot at the high school. He also reported that a few
           parents and the PTO would fund two Owl cameras to be piloted as well.

           Superintendent Buckey noted that a technology audit began ealier in the week and that the
           company performing the audit would be visiting the schools the following week to look at
           infrastructure. He noted that cost and longevity would play an important role in the decision
           making process. He also mentioned that there could be policy implications due to privacy
           concerns. He confirmed with the committee that the recommendation to purchase would be
           brought back to the committee for a vote after the exploration period was finished.

           A conversation regarding the availability of devices, a timeline for the pilot testing and an
           estimate for the cost of the devices was discussed. Training for staff and a process for
           measuring success was also discussed. Superintendent Buckey confirmed that the devices from
           Valley Communication were in the process of being delivered and that a student/teacher
           survey would be the best way to measure success.

       b. Collective Bargaining
          Superintendent Buckey shared that he recently learned that all six collective bargaining units
          were up for negotiation this year. He also noted that a meeting would be held on Friday the
          13th with the Town Administrator, Jason Silva and legal counsel to discuss the structure, the
          process and an anticipated timeline which he would find helpful since he was new to
          Marblehead.

            Superintendent Buckey also mentioned that he and Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy
            would be incorporating Thankful Thursdays throughout the month of November to show
            appreciation for the educators and staff of Marblehead. It was shared that the first delivery of
            cookies from Shubies had been delivered earlier that today.
IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills
       Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $1,795,993.90. The
       motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. Ms. Fox reminded the committee
       that Ms. Barron would need to abstain. The motion was seconded by Ms. Fox instead. Ms. Gold
       informed the committee that the schedules had already been approved by the Building Committee
       and asked the committee if they had any questions. Ms. Fox inquired about a bill for additional
       services in the amount of $66k asking Mr. Harris to confirm what the services were for. Mr. Harris
       explained that the charges were in relation to additional work that needed to be completed
       regarding the soil on site. A roll call vote was taken.

      Ms. Gold-yes
      Ms. Taylor-yes
      Ms. Barron Abstained
      Ms. Fox-yes
      Mr. Harris-yes

      The motion passed, 4-0-1.
V. School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
   1. Presentation on Homeschooling Policies IHBG and IHBG-R
     Assistant Superintendent Nan Murphy presented some adjustments to the Homeschooling Process
    that would benefit the parents and the district alike. She shared new forms that could be filled out
    online and discussed the process for a portfolio review. She explained that she would like to broaden
    the resources available to parents sharing that more information regarding curriculum materials and
    standards based assessments would help them to better navigate the process and what would be
    required. She noted that the state requires a process for determining the ability of parents to serve as
    an effective educator and that that process should be more clearly defined. She also explained that
    considerations for students on 504’s and IEP’s etc should be incorporated into the Homeschooling
    process.

    A conversation regarding how to determine a parent’s ability to homeschool took place. The number
    of instructional hours required was also discussed along with when to implement the proposed
    suggested changes. Although no formal vote was taken, it was decided that the Homeschooling
    process and policy language should be revisited at another meeting to have a deeper conversation
    regarding content and process.
  2. Follow-up on School Committee Goals
      Ms. Gold shared that MASC representative Ms. Presser could be available on November 24th at
      6pm to discuss school committee goals. The committee decided to confirm that date and time with
      Ms. Presser.
  3. School Committee Website Update
      It was mentioned that the school committee secretary, Ms. Barron and the Superintendent’s
      Assistant Lisa would be posting material packets and minutes to the calendar section on the
      website. It was also mentioned that regularly scheduled monthly subcommittee meetings would
      also be posted. Mr. Harris shared that he would work with Lisa to fit in the Building Committee
      meetings. A conversation regarding back links to the district website took place.
  4. School Properties Discussion
      The school committee discussed a letter that was sent from community member and former
      chairman of the Marblehead Finance Committee, Mr. Gessner. It was explained that his letter
      inquired about the surplus property situation that the school district would be left with once some
      of the elementary school buildings would be left vacant due to the building of a new elementary
      school. Mr. Gessner recommended assembling a committee that would study the potential use of
      the properties mentioning that the administration offices located at Widger Rd. would need to find
      a new location once the Historical Society took it over as an archival facility.

        A conversation regarding the use of the properties took place. It was noted that the Eveleth and
        Coffin School would be vacated in September and the cost of maintaining the building should also
        be considered prior to determining future use. It was mentioned that an affordable housing
        committee was interested in the Coffin School and that a recreation area for children had also been
        mentioned. Ms. Fox mentioned the potential need for additional space due to the ongoing
        pandemic and that a location for the high school VOICE program should be looked into. Ms. Gold
        mentioned that she could reach out to Town Administrator, Jason Silva to start the conversation
        and to schedule a time for him to speak at a future meeting about possibilities and process.
   5. Building Project Update
        Mr. Harris shared that Gilbane held off on pouring concrete for the gymnasium floor due to the
        snow and that the concrete for the floor would be poured on the following Monday instead. He
        also shared that brick is arriving by two truckloads a week and that the window delivery and
        installation would follow.
VI. Closing Business
    1. New Business
    2. Correspondence
3. Adjournment
   Ms. Gold Adjourned the meeting at 8:44pm.

  Approved 11/19/2020
