                                         Marblehead School Committee
                                                  May 7, 2020
                                                   7:00 PM
                          Zoom Conference-Meeting ID: 949 3875 9833 & Password: 266533

                   https://zoom.us/j/94938759833?pwd=U21ZTTlqZlFjb0cxaEJVOXVldy9uQT09

                                   Dial In (415) 762-9988 with ID and follow prompts
                                               Meeting ID: 949 3875 9833

I. Initial Business and Public Involvement
  1. Call to Order
     Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:06pm.

 2. Commendations
    Ms. Fox wanted to acknowledge that it was Teacher Appreciation Week and thanked all teachers for making things
    special for their students. She also took the time to acknowledge Seniors as it was a special time of year for them.

   Ms. Gold acknowledged the town for their assistance with coordinating Zoom accounts to allow for larger participant
   capacity during school committee meetings.

   Mr. Harris agreed with Ms. Fox’s sentiment and took the time to recognize Mr. Bauer for a recent tweet he sent out
   commending his fellow staff.

 3. Student Representative – Dan Howells
   Mr. Howells shared an update on remote learning mentioning that there had been a recent increase in Zoom meetings.
   He further shared that each core subject was assigned a specific scheduled day and time every week to meet for the
   remainder of the year which made it helpful for keeping on top of assignments and for reaching teachers regularly. He
   explained that all events including the proms had been canceled and even though students were disappointed, there
   was an understanding about the nature of the health issues and that the safety of the community remained the most
   important. Super McAlduff commended Mr. Howells for his participation throughout the year stating his reports were
   informative and timely. He thanked Mr. Howells and noted the value he brought to the meetings.

 4. Public Comment
   Mr. Benjamin Berman of 43 Crestwood Road provided an update from the Fincom and school liaison meeting held
   earlier that morning. He shared that the school department would be expecting a $200k surplus for the year. He further
   mentioned that although some of the savings would undoubtedly be due to cost savings associated with the Corona
   Virus Pandemic that the school would have experienced a surplus either way. He thanked the school committee
   members from the previous year for pushing for a responsible budget and commended the hard work and dedication of
   Superintendent McAlduff and his team.

II. Consent Agenda and Action Items
    1. Minutes: February 12th and February 26th
        Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the minutes from February 12th and February 26, 2020. The motion was
        moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Schaeffner. A roll call vote was taken.

        Ms. Gold-yes
        Ms. Fox-yes
        Ms. Schaeffner-yes
        Ms. Taylor-yes
        Mr. Harris-yes

        The motion carries, 5-0 all in favor.

III. Superintendent Report
    1.School Closure Update
      a. Remote Learning Plan – Latest Guidance
        Superintendent McAlduff shared with the school committee the updated remote learning guidance he had recently
        received from the Commissioner. He pointed out that the three guiding principles referenced were:
       1)   The safety and well-being of students and staff should remain a top priority
       2)   Equity should be a top consideration especially for the most vulnerable population of students
       3)   Maintaining connections between school staff and families should be a primary focus of educators

            It was explained that the guidance also discussed the recommended elements of remote learning touching
            upon delivery and method of instruction with a focus on engagement, educator office hours and student
            feedback.

            Superintendent McAlduff noted that the taskforce meets regularly to address concerns and make adjustments
            and he thanked the administrators, teacher and staff for all of their hard work during a difficult time.

     b. Marblehead High School Class of 2020 – Graduation
       High School Principal, Daniel Bauer provided an update on the possibility of a high school graduation ceremony
       sharing that virtual options were being looked into and planned. He mentioned that various stakeholders around
       town were coordinating to plan a celebration to honor graduates in a way that would make the families and the
       community proud. Mr. Bauer shared that totes with caps, gown and masks were ordered and that pickups
       following social distancing guidelines were being planned. He also informed the committee that options for
       digitally signed yearbooks was being looked into. He further shared that the Warwick theatre would be putting up a
       message and that the board of health was being consulted to discuss planning parades with teachers and students.
       It was confirmed that graduation would be held and broadcast on Friday, June 6th at 6pm and that another update
       would be provided to the school committee on May 21 st as more information became available.

     c. Re-Entry Plan – Continued Discussion
       Superintendent McAlduff discussed some components of reentry planning that he thought would need to be
       considered during the planning process. Some key points consisted of following federal, state and local guidance
       on social distancing recommendations along with considering budget implications for reentry such as additional
       staffing needs and the purchasing of supplies. Focusing on the health monitoring needed and operational logistics
       involved in reopening the buildings was also mentioned. Addressing testing assessments for students who may
       have fallen behind and the potential for compensatory or increased IEP services would also need to be considered.
       He further explained that plans would evolve through the summer as the course of the virus was closely
       monitiored.

       A conversation discussing concerns surrounding all the logistics involved with reentry took place. Topics
       discussed included: involving incoming Superintendent Buckey in the conversation, staffing considerations for
       more frequent cleaning and daily health monitoring of students and staff , remote learning options for immune
       compromised students who may not be able to return to school and a plan for addressing the social and emotional
       needs of the students who may experience anxiety upon returning to the building.

2.   Assistant Superintendent Search Update
      An update on the Assistant Superintendent Search was shared. It was noted that the Superintendent’s Advisory
      Council met four times holding two organizational meetings and two meetings for interviews. There were over forty
      applicants to consider and the Superintendent commended the committee for their hard work with narrowing down
      candidates. The search committee would meet next week to discuss the candidate interviews and move forward with
      finalist candidate interviews virtually and then bring a recommendation to the June 4th school committee meeting for
      approval.

3.   Northeast Consortium
      This agenda item was put on hold due the information not being able to be obtained. It was explained that it would
      be put on the May 21st agenda instead.

IV. Finance Organizational Support
   1. Schedule of Bills
      Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $393,020.62. The motion was moved by Ms.
      Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox. A roll call vote was taken.

      Ms. Gold-yes
      Ms. Schaeffner-yes
      Ms. Taylor-yes
      Ms. Fox-yes
  Mr. Harris-yes

  The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor

2. Vote to Award High School Tennis Court Construction Contract
  Ms. Gold made a motion to award the Marblehead High School Tennis Court Repair and Resurfacing Project to East
  Coast Sealcoating of Abington, MA in the amount of fifty-five thousand four hundred eighty-five dollars
  ($55,485.00) and to authorize the Chair to sign the contract on behalf of the Committee.

 The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Mr. Harris.

 A discussion about who would oversee the project and the amount of time the work was expected to take took place.
 It was confirmed that the work was expected to take up to four to six (4-6) weeks allowing up to six (6) months to
 account for potential delays from the Corona Virus impact. Ms. Cresta informed the committee that Facilities
 Director, Todd Bloodgood would oversee the project.

 Both Ms. Fox and Mr. Harris thanked the Booster’s for their fundraising efforts to initiate the project which was
 echoed by all members of the committee. A roll call vote was taken.

 Ms. Gold-yes
 Ms. Taylor-yes
 Mr. Harris-yes
 Ms. Fox-yes
 Ms. Schaeffner-yes

 The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

3.   FY20 Monthly Report
     Ms. Cresta provided an FY20 monthly budget report update informing the committee that the school department
     had expended 74% of the annual operating budget. She referenced the third page of a memo she shared with the
     school committee that outlined the accounts with shortfalls and surplus. She noted that as of April 30 th significant
     changes could be reported since the last update was provided on March 20th. Ms. Cresta explained that the
     expected surplus of $1,600 reported in March was now projected to be a $200k surplus. She noted that the largest
     swing in numbers was associated with the O.O.D Out of District tuition and transportation costs which decreased
     the deficit in those line items by around $170K.

     Ms. Cresta went over the individual accounts where the district would continue to see shortfalls and also
     mentioned a new shortfall in the food services account due to continuing to pay staff while no revenue source
     from the sale of meals was coming in. She further informed the committee of the accounts in which they would
     see a surplus such as the expected water and utilities account, the coaching and substitute accounts and the
     special education transportation account.

     A series of questions and answers took place and a discussion clarifying what the expected surplus would have
     been without taking Covid19 related cost savings into account occurred. Superintendent McAlduff agreed with
     Ms. Schaeffner that although the swing in numbers associated with both accounts in shortfall and surplus was
     due in part by the impact of Covid 19, he confirmed that the district would have seen around a $63k surplus prior
     to the impact of Corona Virus. He commended Ms. Cresta for her process and protocols she has implemented in
     a short time stating that they illustrated her tracking process was reliable.

4. Discussion on Status of Pre-K & Kindergarten Tuition Payments
   Superintendent McAlduff discussed inquiries he had recently been receiving regarding pre-kindergarten and
  kindergarten tuition payments. He explained that the district has continued to collect tuition payments during the
  time of closure to support the funding of staff salaries while they taught remotely. He informed the committee that it
  would be his recommendation to continue to collect tuition payments through the remainder of the year while
  offering relief to those families experiencing economic hardship.

 Ms. Gold made a motion to instruct the Business Office to continue sending monthly Pre-K and Full Day
 Kindergarten tuition invoices and that the payment of said invoices would be optional for April, May and June. The
 motion was moved by Ms. Schaeffner and seconded by Ms. Taylor. A roll call vote was taken. Ms. Fox noted that
     she felt uncomfortable voting due to be being a Kindergarten parent and shared that she would be abstaining from
     the vote.

     Ms. Gold-yes
     Ms. Schaeffner-yes
     Ms. Taylor-yes
     Mr. Harris-yes
     Ms. Fox-Abstained.

     The motion passes, 4-0 with one abstention.

   5. FY21 Clerks Compensation Plan
     Superintendent McAlduff explained that the clerks’ compensation plan is voted on annually during the first meeting
     in May. He mentioned that the salary schedule was determined by a five step system that determines the weekly pay
     by group. It was mentioned that the plan covers about 25 employees that are not covered by other bargaining units
     within the district. He also clarified which positions within the district no longer existed and confirmed that the only
     changes to the document involved the 2.5 % COLA increase.

     Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the FY21 Clerks Compensation and Benefit Plan as proposed. The motion was
     moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Mr. Harris. A roll call vote was taken.

     Ms. Gold-yes
     Ms. Taylor-yes
     Ms. Fox-yes
     Mr. Harris-yes
     Ms. Schaeffner-yes

     The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

   6. FY21 Budget Update
      Superintendent McAlduff gave the committee an update on the FY21 budget planning. He shared the most recent
      adjustments made to the budget tracking mentioning that they reflected special education and staffing updates. He
      shared that the staffing updates consisted of changes that were due to resignations or retirements and not due to
      layoffs. It was explained that the proposed FY21 budget was reflecting a total of $40, 898, 356k which came in about
      $186k less than what was originally planned. He informed the committee that the next steps would be to schedule a
      budget subcommittee meeting and then hold a Budget Public Hearing the first week in June. He noted that a meeting
      for Fincom to review the budget was scheduled for June 15th and that the Town meeting would follow on June 29th.
      A conversation about how the surplus funds would be utilized took place. It was stated that there had been discussion
      about returning it to the Town or if prepaying special education tuitions could be an option. Superintendent McAluff
      mentioned that the topic needed to be further discussed. Ms. Schaeffner also inquired about Cares Act funding to
      which superintendent McAlduff shared that Marblehead could be expecting around $100k in relief funding that
      could be utilized over a 27 month period.
V. School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
   1. School Naming Discussion
      A conversation deciding the next steps for the school naming project took place. Although it was discussed that most
      committee members would like to see the new elementary school named, it was decided that it may be best to
      address the process at an upcoming meeting. Ms. Taylor shared that the committee had much to focus on and wanted
      to give the process the attention it deserved at the right time. The naming discussion would be discussed at an
      upcoming meeting and the committee members would share their top choices.
   2. School Building Project Update
      Mr. Harris gave an update on the school building project. He shared that the OAC met at the site on Monday sharing
      that himself, Superintendent McAlduff, Finance Director, Ms. Cresta and Town Administrator Jason Silva were all
      in attendance. He shared how exciting it was to see the project come together. Mr. Harris shared that blasting had
      gone well and that both the fire and water departments were involved in the process. It was mentioned t 60 % of the
      construction drawings would be submitted on May11 and that a final bid for work would be coming in on May 14th.

     A conversation discussing next steps for construction drawing submissions and remaining estimates took place.
     Further discussion regarding additional costs incurred also took place. Mr. Harris shared that it had been explained
     that blasting could go over budget due to the blasting of unanticipated harder rock. Ms. Fox inquired who would be
     looking over the final construction drawings if it was not going to be a representative from the school side to which
     Mr. Harris shared that he would follow-up on to confirm.

VI. Closing Business
    1. New Business
         Superintendent McAlduff discussed a M.O.A Memorandum of Agreement that was worked on with the
         Marblehead Teachers’ Association representative, Joan Miller. He shared adjustments that were made in which
         certain language was edited to address clarification with concerns related to school closure from Covid-19. It was
         noted that adjustments were made to address stipends and add language to clarify DESE revised guidelines for
         remote learning.

         Ms. Gold made a motion to accept the Memorandum of Agreement between the Marblehead Education
         Association as well as Appendix A to accompany the document. The motion was moved by Ms. Schaeffner and
         seconded by Ms. Taylor. A roll call vote was taken.

         Ms. Gold-yes
         Ms. Taylor-yes
         Ms. Fox-yes
         Mr. Harris-yes
         Ms. Schaeffner-yes

         The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

         Adjournment
         Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 10:28pm.

                                                                                              Respectfully Submitted
                                                                                              Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                                              Marblehead School Committee

Approved September 3, 2020
