                            Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                    Thursday February 26, 2020-7:00pm
                                             Glover Cafeteria

Members Present:                         Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Jennifer Schaeffner and David Harris

Members Absent:                          Sarah Fox

Also:                                    William, H. McAlduff Jr.-Interim Superintendent
                                         Michelle Cresta-Director of Finance
                                         Eric Oxford-Director of Student Services
                                         Greg Ceglarski-Director of Athletics

I.      Initial Business and Public Involvement
        1. Call to Order
             Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:03pm.
        2. Commendations
             Mr. Harris mentioned having the Athletics Director, Mr. Ceglarsk in attendance for the meeting and
             noted all the great things he was hearing about the Winter Sports Teams. He shared that it would be
             nice to receive an update at one of the next meetings to which Ms. Gold agreed and referenced
             providing an update to the committee at the March 5th meeting.
        3. Public Comment
             None.
        4. Dan Howells, Student Rep, Junior and Class President
             Student Representative Dan Howells was not in attendance and would provide an update at the next
             regularly scheduled meeting.

II.     Consent Agenda and Action Items
        1. Minutes
           Ms. Gold asked the committee if they needed any clarification on the minutes or if anyone had any
           additions they would like to add. Ms. Taylor stated that she would abstain from voting on the January
           9, 2020 minutes as she was not able to review them.

            Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the minutes from the December 19, 2020 meeting. The motion
            was moved by Mr. Harris and seconded by Ms. Taylor. The motion passes 4-0.

            Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the minutes from the January 9, 2020 meeting. The motion was
            moved by Mr. Harris and seconded by Ms. Schaeffner. The motion passes 3-0-1.

III.    Superintendent Report
        1. Recommendation for Appointment
           a. Director of Student Services
                Superintendent McAlduff read a prepared statement to the committee recommending that Mr.
                Oxford be permanently appointed to the position of the Director of Student Services sharing that
                Mr. Oxford’s skill set was an excellent match for the Marblehead Public Schools.

                Ms. Gold made a motion to appoint Mr. Eric Oxford as the Director of Student Services on a
                permanent basis. The motion was moved by Ms. Schaeffner and seconded by Ms. Taylor.
                The motion carries, all in favor 4-0.

                The committee members congratulated and welcomed Mr. Oxford who thanked the committee and
                Superintendent McAlduff for their support and reported what a pleasure it had already been
               supporting the students and staff on a daily basis and that he would look forward to continuing
               down that path.

      2.   Updates on:
           a. Coffin School Boilers etc.
              Superintendent McAlduff provided an update on the boilers at the Coffin School. He shared that
              all of the steam traps that needed replacing had already been replaced. He further explained that
              the motor drive assembly on one of the boilers had been replaced over February. He reminded the
              committee that the plan for the electronic thermostat system to be bypassed by manual controls
              had been completed which would provide better temperature control going forward. It was also
              stated that the burner is from 1943 and due to its old age needed to be serviced regularly. A
              discussion regarding the timeframe and cost involved with replacing the entire burner took place.
              In reference to the Coffin School, Mr. Harris thanked the Superintendent, the Director of
              Facilities, Mr. Bloodgood and the Town of Marblehead for their efforts in building a temporary
              ramp for students with mobility concerns.
           b. Tennis Court Fundraising
              Superintendent McAlduff reported that the Booster’s fundraiser to raise money to repair the High
              School Tennis Courts had come to an end and that he was impressed to hear that $108k had been
              raised, which exceeded the original fundraising goal of $100k. It was explained that the next steps
              would be for the project to go out to bid.
           c. Marblehead Veterans Middle School Assistant Principal Search
              Superintendent McAlduff congratulated Veterans Middle School Assistant Principal, Mr. Phil
              McManus on his new position as the Masconomet Regional Middle School Principal. He shared a
              hiring search timeline outlining the next steps in the interviewing process. It was noted that the
              goal would be to have a finalist candidate to announce by the end of April, pending contract
              negotiations.

IV.   Finance Organizational Support
      1. Schedule of Bills
          Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $628,866.68. Ms. Schaeffner stated
          that she would be abstaining from the vote due to reimbursements paid to her. The motion was moved
          by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Mr. Harris. The motion passes, 3-0-1

           # 19092      $ 1,320.17
           # 19124      $ 19,552.93
           # 19126      $ 6,908.80
           # 19138      $ 23,470.04
           # 19143      $ 240,317.78
           # 19148      $ 337,074.16
           # 19150      $     222.80

           Total         $ 628,866.68

      2.   FY20 Monthly Financial Report
           Ms. Cresta presented an update on the year to date budget status as of January 31 st. She shared that
           48% of the operating budget had been expended and that all accounts were continuing to be monitored
           closely. It was noted that around a $200k short-fall in Special Education Out of District Tuition and
           Transportation would still be projected. It was also reported that once the District had expended about
           $448K more in utility costs that the town’s energy reserve account would cover remaining cost. Ms.
           Cresta explained that the expected water and sewer budget surplus could be applied to cover the short-
           fall in the gas and electric utility account. She also reminded the committee of the expected short-fall
           in the telephone budget. It was also mentioned that about 60% of the budget for substitution costs had
           been expended along with just under 45% of the salary budget.

           A conversation discussing the use of the special education reserve fund to cover transportation costs
           took place.
3.   FY21 Capital – Facilities Sub-Committee Report
     Ms. Schaeffner presented the committee with information on the FY21 Facilities Capital Plan requests.
     Items of importance that the Facilities Subcommittee felt needed attention were highlighted and
     estimate costs included. Ms. Schaeffner shared that building walkthroughs assisted with the process of
     focusing in on areas of immediate concern. She pointed out that a district-wide Capital Facility Needs
     Assessment would be a top priority and that the entry doors at both the Coffin School and High School
     should be replaced.

     Superintendent McAlduff acknowledged the need for a facilities assessment and recommended
     working with the town in the future to develop a longer, perhaps 20 year plan. A conversation
     addressing which smaller items could be addressed by the maintenance workers took place and
     although no formal vote was taken, it was decided that a narrowed down list should be presented at the
     school committee meeting on March 5th.

4.   FY21 Draft Budget
     Superintendent McAlduff explained the presentation plan for the evening stating that both the Athletic
     Director, Mr. Ceglarski and the Director of Student Services, Mr. Oxford would be presenting an
     update on their individual department budgets. He also shared that new information pertaining to Out
     of District Tuition would be shared at the next meeting.
     a. Athletics
         Mr. Ceglarski thanked Ms. Cresta for all of her assistance during the budget planning process. He
         began his PowerPoint presentation updating the committee on the number of sports teams broken
         down by season that were currently in district. He also included the number of athletes, coaches
         and volunteers. Mr. Ceglarski shared information related to revenue from user fees and gate
         receipts which totaled around $212k in combined revenue. It was shared that the operating budget
         for 2020 would be around $530k. He also shared information about Massachusetts Interscholastic
         Athletic Association Requirements (MIAA) and the request for increased funding due to
         equipment safety requirements. Topics of discussion included utilizing a portion of the user fees to
         pay for coaching stipends, the maintenance of athletic fields and turf repair, ideas on how to
         decrease costs associated with bussing transportation and information on the jersey renewal
         program.
     b. Utilities/Energy/Maintenance
         Finance Director, Ms. Cresta shared that the FY21 maintenance budget would need to be increased
         around $70k. She also shared that the line item for maintenance supplies had been underfunded in
         the past and that an increase of around $28k would be required in order to meet the increasing
         needs of aging equipment that would need replacing. It was also shared that the school department
         would work with the town to address some of their vehicle needs for busses, vans and wheelchair
         accessible vehicles.
     c. Special Education
         Director of Student Service, Mr. Oxford provided an update on the anticipated FY21 revenue from
         Tuition-In Students stating that the district is projecting a revenue of $732k from students
         attending Marblehead Public School from out of district (O.O.D). He did remind the committee
         that there will most likely be adjustments made to the projected number to account for the constant
         changes associated with Tuition-In students. Mr. Oxford explained his plans for the reallocation of
         special education personnel stating that by balancing both increases and reductions in full time
         equivalency status (FTE) of specific personnel would provide an anticipated cost saving of around
         $50k. He further shared that the $50k savings could provide a cushion for needs based staffing
         moving forward.

         Superintendent McAlduff thanked Mr. Oxford for his presentation and stated, “A good example of
         hiring Eric on a permanent basis is that he is always looking for efficiencies without
         compromising the needs of students.”

         Superintendent McAlduff provided an update on Circuit Breaker funds. He explained that the
         funds are reimbursements that come from the state based on the out of district placements from the
         previous school year. He shared that with an anticipated 75% reimbursement from the state that
                Marblehead would receive an increase of about $106k from the previous year to total around
                $1,667, 691. It was also explained that the total funds would be placed in the special education
                revolving fund and due to changing number in placements that the numbers would continue to be
                monitored closely.

V.     School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
       1. Town Report Submission
          The Superintendent shared that he had completed the school portion of the annual Town Report and
          that it had been submitted. He thanked the number of staff that worked on the report and encouraged
          the School Committee to reach out to him with any questions they could address at a later time.

       2.   Building Project Update
            Mr. Harris gave an update on the new elementary school building project sharing that fencing had been
            put up around the site and that the town had received a design and development acceptance letter last
            Friday from the Massachusetts School Building Authority (MSBA). He also thanked Principals Donna
            Zaeske and Sean Satterfield for their feedback regarding the traffic plan pattern for the new school. Mr.
            Harris shared that the Building Committee would be meeting with the Planning Board on Monday
            March 2nd at 7:30 at the Community Center. He also mentioned that bids for dirt, steel and concrete
            had come back in and were under budget. A conversation discussing blasting concerns took place. It
            was confirmed that Gilbane would be providing monthly construction reports and Ms. Schaeffner
            asked to be added to the group of building committee emails to be able to remain informed about the
            project.

       3.   School Committee Liaison Updates
            Ms. Taylor shared that there would be a METCO sponsored Cultural Fest on Friday February 28 th from
            6-9pm at the High School to support fundraising for scholarships.

            Ms. Gold shared that the Special Education Parent Advisory Council (SEPAC) had not met due to
            cancellations from members being sick.

            Ms. Taylor shared that she had recently met with the Village School and that budget and technology
            concerns were topics of discussion.

            Ms. Schaeffner shared that she had recently met with the Glover School but there was no quorum so
            they would plan to meet again in March.

            Ms. Schaeffner also mentioned that the Policy Subcommittee would be bringing forward some policy
            updates for review that had been suggested by the Massachusetts Association of School Committees
            (MASC).

VI.    Closing Business
       1. New Business
           None
       2. Adjournment
           Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:48pm.

                                                                                     Respectfully Submitted
                                                                                     Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                                     Marblehead School Committee

Approved May 7, 2020
