                            Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                       Friday August 28, 2020 9:00am
                                           Zoom Conference Call-
           https://zoom.us/j/95653981608?pwd=ZGgvNXUwWUU1Nk5uVnZGL3psNjdLdz09
                                      Meeting ID: 956 5398 1608
                                          Password: 790683
                               OR Dial In (415) 762-9988 and follow the prompts

Members Present:                         Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Emily Barron, David Harris
                                         and Sarah Fox

Also:                                    Dr. John J. Buckey-Superintendent
                                         Nan Murphy-Assistant Superintendent


    I.      Call to Order
            Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 9:03am.

            Ms. Fox made a motion to allow for public comment. The motion was seconded by Mr. Harris.
            A roll call vote was taken .It was mentioned that due to Ms. Taylor experiencing connectivity issues
            that her vote would be counted as an abstention. The motion carried 4-0-1.

            Ms. Gold-yes
            Mr. Harris-yes
            Ms. Fox-yes
            Mr. Barron-yes
            Ms. Taylor-abstained

    II.     Public Comment
            Ms. Catherin Martin of W Shore Dr. inquired if an Industrial Hygienist would be completing the
            carbon dioxide and humidity testing in all of the school buildings. She also questioned what the
            timeframe and plans for mitigation would should there be any findings upon inspection.

            Mr. Patrick Noonan asked the committee to share any other non HVAC related unresolved issues that
            could delay modifications to the collective bargaining agreements that would prevent the staff from
            returning and the school hybrid start date.

    III.    Memorandum of Agreement with the Marblehead Education Association
            Superintendent Buckey explained that the memorandum involved collaboration with the Marblehead
            Education Association MEA to address provisions to the reopening of schools. He shared that areas of
            concern related to building safety, cleaning protocols, the school calendar and staff professional
            development. It was noted that HVAC concerns could delay the memorandum of agreement for the
            reopening of schools and that an air quality audit would address such concerns. Superintendent Buckey
            informed the committee that the Director of Facilities, Todd Bloodgood had coordinated with Fuss and
            O’Neill to begin an air quality audit as early as the following week. He also confirmed that staff who
            felt more comfortable to do so were approved to work from home during the first two weeks of
            professional development until the audit was complete. He further shared that the memorandum had
            been approved by the MEA the previous evening and that the school committee would need to vote to
            approve it as well so the air quality audit work could begin.

            Ms. Gold asked for a motion to approve the memorandum of agreement between the Marblehead
            School Committee and the Marblehead Education Association which would get the district through
            September 14th. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron.

            The committee discussed the expectations of staff working remotely from the classroom versus
            working from home. Dr. Buckey reminded the committee of the Commissioner’s expectations that
            staff teach remote form their classrooms further clarifying that additional personal protective
            equipment and separate work spaces could be provided as an accommodation for those staff that
            required it. A conversation regarding appropriate staff accommodations and the approval process for
            working from home took place.

            Ms. Fox noted that she was in favor of staff that was able to work from home being able to do so,
            sharing that she felt it could help lessen the number of individuals in the buildings; thus lessening the
            potential for the virus spreading.

            Ms. Fox also requested that the air quality reports be shared when they come in to which
            Superintendent Buckey confirmed that the results would be provided to the community as the safety of
            the staff and students remained a primary concern.
            Superintendent Buckey thanked the MEA for their collaboration mentioning how grateful he was for
            the positive working relationship.

            A roll call vote to approve the memorandum of agreement was taken. The motion passed, 5-0 all in
            favor.
            Ms. Gold-yes
            Mr. Harris-yes
            Ms. Fox-yes
            Ms. Barron-yes
            Ms. Taylor-yes

    IV.     Adjournment
            Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:33am sharing that the recording would be posted to the YouTube
            channel.

                                                                                       Respectfully Submitted
                                                                                       Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                                       Marblehead School Committee

Approved October 29, 2020
