                          Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                      Friday August 14, 2020 8:30am
                                       Glover School-Front Entrance

Members Present:                        Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Emily Barron, David Harris
                                        and Sarah Fox

Also:                                   Dr. John J. Buckey-Superintendent
                                        Nan Murphy-Assistant Superintendent
                                        Ms. Dorothy Presser-MASC Representative
                                        Ms. Christine McGrath-MASS


Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 8:30am and welcomed Superintendent Buckey’s mentor,
Christine McGrath and MASC representative Ms. Dorothy Presser. Introductions took place.
Ms. McGrath shared that she began her 19 year career as a Superintendent with Tewksbury Public
Schools which ended in 2010. She informed the committee that through the Massachusetts Association of
School Superintendents (MASS) she would be serving as Dr. Buckey’s coach and mentor for the next two
years as part the three year New Superintendent’s Induction Program (NSIP).

I. MASC Massachusetts Association of School Committees
   A. Strategic Plan
      Ms. Presser discussed the aspects of a strategic plan with the committee sharing the definition and
      the importance behind setting goals. She explained how to build the elements of the plan in an
      effort to reach a continuous improvement model so that leadership could be exercised and staff
      kept on track. She further explained that the structure provided through the plan would ensure the
      alignment of goals throughout the district for the administrative team, principals, teachers and staff.
      She noted that a developed mission statement should be concise and that SMART goals would help
      measure progress. It was mentioned that “plans fail because of failure to monitor.”

      A series of questions and answers took place. Topics discussed included; entry plan findings,
      collecting data and monitoring data during COVID-19, a timeframe for monitoring the plan
      throughout the year and prioritizing the needs of the district while simultaneously developing the
      strategic plan.
   B. Superintendent Evaluation
      A discussion regarding the process for the evaluation of the Superintendent took place. It was
      explained that the evaluation was part of the evaluation process for all educators and that
      adjustments to the process were incorporated based on studies from the 2011 achievement gap. It
      was further explained that the goal of the evaluation process was to more effectively link
      performance to overall student achievement. Ms. McGrath informed the committee that the
      Massachusetts Board of Elementary and Secondary Education required certain elements of the
      evaluation and that other elements should be considered for adapting tools to the specific needs of
      the district. It was also mentioned that evaluations took place annually and that there were three
      key components to the evaluation in which the process would begin and end with self-assessment.

        The first key component being the five step cycle was discussed. It was shared that the five steps
        included; self-assessment, goal setting and plan development, plan implementation, formative
        assessment and then a summative evaluation. The committee was informed that the formative
        assessment served as a half way point check in and it was suggested that February may be the
        appropriate timeframe to address that part of the evaluation cycle. It was also recommended that a
      date in May could be held for the summative portion so that current members of the committee
      would be part of the evaluation prior to any member election changes.
      It was explained that the second component of the evaluation included creating SMART goals that
      would lead to district improvement. Ms. McGrath noted that the third and final key component of
      the evaluation process would consist of a multipart rating system focusing on whether or not goals
      were met, exceeded or if progress was expected. It was further mentioned that the overall
      summative rating would support such scores of proficient, needs improvement or unsatisfactory.

      A discussion regarding creating an evaluation document and timeline took place.
      Topics of discussion included the next steps for entry planning and the process for reporting the
      findings to be incorporated towards the strategic plan. Clarification was provided regarding the
      options for creating either an evaluation subcommittee or a Superintendent’s Advisory Committee
      for the evaluation process. It was explained that a subcommittee would require posted agendas and
      that an advisory committee would not as it was not considered a public body. A discussion
      regarding who may be appointed the task of creating the final composite rating that would be
      publicly shared and voted on also took place. The committee was also reminded that the composite
      rating would need to be posted publicly as it became available so there would be no violation of the
      open meeting law.

II. School Committee Operating Protocols
    The school committee revisited the discussion of the operating protocols that were reviewed at an
    earlier summer meeting. The committee was informed that Ms. Taylor and Ms. Barron combined the
    existing protocols with the recommended protocols from Dr. Buckey to create a revised draft which
    specified which protocols were being newly considered. It was suggested that the document be
    reviewed and discussed so that areas of concern could be addressed prior to a final vote. It was noted
    that a new section on how the committee governs had been added. Ms. Fox shared that she felt the
    existing protocols in place from MASC were sufficient to which Ms. Gold did comment that she liked
    some of the new additions that may be more applicable to Marblehead. A discussion regarding how
    communication should occur amongst committee members and town officials took place.
    Additionally, a conversation regarding guidelines surrounding the use of social media by committee
    members took place. It was mentioned that channeling information through the Superintendent should
    be considered best practice. Ms. Presser mentioned the importance of understanding how social media
    postings could be considered as committee deliberations in the eyes of the community depending
    upon how and where comments are posted. Ms. Gold confirmed that the committee would adopt
    MASC’s best practices for social media use and that the protocols would be looked over one final
    time to be brought back to the committee for a final vote.

III. School Committee Internal and External Communication Discussion
     Ms. Gold and Ms. Taylor informed the committee that parent Kate Thomson who had developed the
     Back Together MHD website for the reopening of schools had been working on a new website for
     the school committee. A mockup of the website was shared and committee members shared their
     thoughts regarding the plan for the site. It was mentioned that the site would be more personalized
     and tailored for use. It was shared that there would be a page devoted to committee member profiles
     with a direct link to the school committee email address. Discussions about the possibility of push
     notifications, streaming videos and calendar management occurred. The committee welcomed the
     changes being made to the website and commended Ms. Thomson for all of her work developing it.

IV. Subcommittee and Liaisons Discussion
    It was decided that the vote to appoint subcommittee members would be put on hold until the next
    meeting.
    Budget
    Collective Bargaining
    Policy

    Superintendent’s Advisory
    Health and Wellness
    School and Town
    Building Committee

    School Liaisons
    High School
    Veterans
    Village
    Glover
    Coffin/Eveleth

   METCO
   SEPAC

V. Legal Services Request for Information
    It was also noted that the request for legal services proposals would not need to be further discussed
    and that letters requesting proposals would be sent. It was mentioned that the proposals would be
    brought back to the committee to be discussed at a future meeting

VI. Schedule of Bills
    Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $2,493,751.87. The motion was
    moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor. A roll call vote was taken.

    Ms. Gold-Yes
    Ms. Taylor-Yes
    Ms. Barron-Yes
    Ms. Fox-Yes
    Mr. Harris-Yes

   The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

    Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 12.32pm and mentioned that the next meeting would be scheduled
    for Thursday August 20, 2020 at 7pm via Zoom noting that a reentry update should be added to the
    agenda.

                                                                             Respectfully Submitted
                                                                            Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                            Marblehead School Committee

Approved October 1, 2020
