Policy Subcommittee Meeting - 12/8/2020
Front Conference Room
District Office, 9 Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945

Members present - Sarah Gold, Emily Barron, and John Buckey

     I.   Call to order: 8:31 am

  II.     Approval of meeting minutes from 11/17/2020. Motion made by Ms. Gold and seconded
          by Ms. Barron. Minutes were approved in a 3-0 vote.

 III.     Policy IGB - Support Services Program
              A. Dr. Buckey suggested that two sections be added to the policy.
                  Curricular Supervision and Coordination​ Coordinating personnel for specific
                  curricular areas shall be assigned by the administration. These coordinators shall
                  assist in the organization, supervision, and coordination of subject material and
                  activities in the schools.
                  Support Services​ The Director of Special Services shall be responsible for all
                  programs for educationally handicapped and gifted students' psychological
                  services, speech correction, homebound and hospital teaching and such other
                  programs as may be assigned to the Support Services.

             B. Dr. Buckey suggested the second paragraph in the existing policy be removed-
                The Assistant Superintendent shall be responsible for all services for students
                who are not eligible for special education assistance, such as psychological
                services, speech correction, homebound and hospital teaching and such other
                programs as may be assigned.

 IV.      Policy IGD - Curriculum Adoption
              A. No changes were suggested.

IV.       Policy IHA - Basic Instructional Program
              A. No changes were suggested to IHA, but it came to the committee’s attention that
                  Marblehead does not have an IHAE - Physical Education policy. Dr. Buckey
                  suggested the policy be added to the district policies. Ms. Gold asked for
                  examples and Nantucket and Lexington’s policy will be used as examples.

V.        Policy IHAI- Occupational Education
              A. Dr. Buckey suggested changing the name of the policy to “Vocational Technical
                  Education”. Ms. Gold noted that Lexington has the same policy name as
                  Marblehead. Ms. Gold said she would reach out to Dorothy Presser about the
                  name change.
VI.    Policy FA - Facilities Development Goals
           A. No changes were suggested.

VII.   Policy FF- Naming New Facilities
           A. Dr. Buckey suggested that “ and Spaces” be added to the title of the policy and
               added to the first sentence of the policy because spaces in and around school
               buildings like to be named as well.

Adjourned at 9:06 am
Respectfully Submitted
Emily Barron
