                           Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                              June 4, 2020
                                      Zoom Web Conference 7:00 PM
                            Zoom Conference Call-Meeting ID: 913 3546 6680
              https://zoom.us/j/91335466680?pwd=ZlNlR2FZR1FYc0hvRnlTaFA2Mzl5QT09


Members Present:                        Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Jennifer Schaeffner
                                        David Harris and Sarah Fox

Also:                                   William, H. McAlduff Jr.-Interim Superintendent
                                        Michelle Cresta-Director of Business and Finance

I.      Initial Business and Public Involvement
        1. Call to Order
             Ms. Gold called them meeting to order at 7:03pm.
        2. Commendations
              Ms. Schaeffner thanked Super McAlduff for his commitment and hard work during the year and a
                 difficult budget situation
              Ms. Gold commended the statement made from Team Harmony and the resources they provided
                 to families around the topic of race.
              Ms. Gold thanked the Firefighters, Mr. John MQuinn and Mr. Mark Tentindo for going above any
                 beyond about fire safety in the schools, presenting many videos to both the Coffin and Glover
                 students.
              Ms. Gold also recognized Veterans Middle School 8th grader, Claire Donovan who is the Project
                 351 Ambassador for organizing a statewide virtual walk consisting of over 725 people across the
                 Commonwealth walking 5k miles and raising $14k for various charities.
              Ms. Fox congratulated the graduating class of 2020
              Mr. Harris thanked Mr. Bauer for the tweets posted and the banners up congratulating the class of
                 2020.He further thanked the light department and the firefighters for their assistance.
        3. Student Representative – Dan Howells
              Mr. Howells noted the teachers’ efforts to keep students engaged and highlighted the creative
                 assignments he has had the last month
              Mr. Howells Spanish Class used Flip Grid to set up student account to communicate via videos to
                 answer questions in Spanish by making video responses
              Mr. Howells Physics Class was using various websites for virtual labs and even had an assignment
                 in which students needed to create a Weird Al style song parody about physics.
              Math teachers were asking non-math related questions every other day for extra points to make
                 sure students were logging into virtual accounts and remaining engaged in learning
              Marblehead choir students were part of an American Choral Composer’s virtual choir.
        4. Public Comment
              Mr. Blair Nelson of 100 Elm Street, a father of a 1st and 2nd grader thanked Superintendent
                 McAlduff for all his hard work. He shared his concerns regarding a hybrid learning model in the
                 fall and what could work for distance learning in the 2020-2021 school year.

II.     Consent Agenda and Action Items
        1. Minutes:
           a. March 17, 2020
           b. March 24, 2020
           c. March 27, 2020

            Ms. Fox was not able to read minutes and would abstain due to Dropbox issues. Mr. Harris confirmed
            that it could be due to space issues as he was receiving messages regarding space capacity recently.
            Ms. Schaeffner confirmed with the school committee and secretary that the January 23 rd minutes
            approved on March 24th included documentation that was requested to be included from public
            comment.

            Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the minutes from March 17, 2020, March 24, 2020 and March 27,
            2020. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Schaeffner. A roll call vote was
            taken:

            Ms. Gold-yes
            Ms. Fox-abstained
            Ms. Taylor-yes
            Ms. Schaeffner-yes
            Mr. Harris-yes

            The motion carries 4-0 with one abstention.

       2.   Acceptance of Donations
            Ms. Gold made a motion to accept two donations from the Marblehead Boosters Club Incorporated in
            the amount of $55,485 and $9,500 to be used for the Marblehead Tennis Court Repair and Resurfacing
            Project. The motion was moved by Ms. Fox and was seconded Ms. Taylor. A roll call vote was taken:

            Gold-yes
            Fox-yes
            Taylor-yes
            Schaeffner-yes
            Harris-yes

            The motion carries 5-0, all in favor.

III.   Superintendent Report
       1. School Closure Update
          a. Congratulations to Class of 2020
               Superintendent McAlduff sent his heartfelt congrats to the Marblehead High School Class of
               2020. He further shared that the virtual graduation would be aired at 6pm on YouTube and that
               there would be a class parade the following morning at 10am. He commended Principal Bauer for
               all of his planning with the Board of Health and public safety. He also noted that the link to the
               graduation would be shared on the district website.

            b.   Re-Entry Plan Update
                 Superintendent McAlduff shared that on a recent call with Commissioner Riley it was announced
                 that the state would be putting together a reopening taskforce. It was also mentioned that guidance
                 regarding reopening plans were expected to be out to districts by the middle of June. It was
                 mentioned that plans were expected to be mostly prescriptive in nature and should include both a
                 combination of hybrid and remote learning models.

                 A discussion regarding PPE, personal protective equipment took place. Additionally, it was
                 mentioned that Cares Act money that would be coming could be used to purchase PPE supplies.
                 Concerns were raised for those students that may not be able to physically attend school and the
                 options they should be provided for remote learning. It was further discussed that scheduling,
                 transportation, food services and certain distract policies would be impacted.

       2.   Middle School Assistant Principal – Announcement of Appointment
            Superintendent McAlduff announced that he was pleased to share the appointment of Ms. Julia
            Ferreira as the new Assistant Principal, replacing Principal McManus at the Veterans Middle School. It
            was noted that Ms. Ferreira was relocating back to Boston after having spent many year living and
            teaching in California.
IV.   Finance Organizational Support
      1. Schedule of Bills
          Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the above identified schedule of bills totaling $510,393.13
          The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Schaeffner. A roll call vote was taken:

           Ms. Gold-yes
           Ms. Fox-abstained
           Ms. Taylor-yes
           Ms. Schaeffner-yes
           Mr. Harris-yes

           The motion carries 4-0 with one abstention.

      2.   FY20 Monthly Report
           Ms. Cresta updated the committee that the originally expected $200k surplus discussed the previous
           month had increased to a $425k surplus. She shared that additional savings in the athletics, overtime
           pay, textbooks and supplies and services line items contributed to the surplus. Ms. Cresta did mention
           that without the closure, the district would have still seen a surplus of $114k . She also noted that some
           outstanding invoices may still need to be paid through the end of June and that there would be some
           improvements to the budget monitoring system to begin the next fiscal year.

           The committee thanked Superintendent McAlduff and his team and Superintendent McAlduff
           commended the efforts of the leadership team and Ms. Cresta for being able to, “stabilize the business
           office with her experience and leadership skills.”


      3.   FY21 Budget Update
           a. Status Update
              Superintendent McAlduff explained that the goal of the evening would be to come to a consensus
              on what budget number would be presented for Monday at the Budget Public Hearing. He shared
              that a discussion on how to utilize the $200k in surplus funds was addressed at the last budget
              liaisons meeting. It was explained that it could be returned to the Town or utilized for prepaying
              FY21 Out of District, O.O.D Special Education Tuitions costs which supported the needs of the
              district while simultaneously considering the available resources of the Town.

               Superintendent McAlduff shared the following meeting schedule:
               Wednesday, June 17th-School Committee meeting with Fincom
               Thursday, June 18th-School Committee meeting to vote to approve the FY21 budget
               Monday, June 29th-Town Meeting

               Superintendent McAlduff discussed the budget tracking sheet and his recommendation for the
               FY21 budget ask of $40,521,000k. He explained the areas of adjustments that supported a
               reduction in the overall budget number. Adjustments in the following areas contributed to the
               lower final number:
               -Prepaying Special Education Tuition costs
               -Reducing FTE’s, full time equivalency status of teachers based on class sections
               -Not funding certain requests for new positions
               -Not providing a COLA for non-union personnel, allowing for unanticipated COVID-19 related
               expenses

               A conversation discussing kindergarten enrollment numbers took place. The committee further
               discussed the COLA concern and committee members Ms. Fox and Ms. Schaeffner stated they
               would have a difficult time supporting the decision to not provide a cost of living increase raise to
               the administrators.
             b.   Public Hearing Preview
                  Superintendent McAlduff confirmed that the consensus of the school committee would be to
                  present to the town a budget that reflects $40,521,000k.

                  It was noted that there would be another opportunity to discuss the budget at the next budget
                  subcommittee meeting prior to proposing the final number.

V.      School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
         1. School Building Project Update
            Mr. Harris shared the following:
            -Waterlines were scheduled earlier that day and delayed due to concerns surrounding an unknown
            utility line
            -Blasting was being wrapped up with a few final test blasts scheduled near Dartmouth Rd for Monday
            -Pre-inspections of 32 homes were completed and post inspection followed. One claim was submitted
            through the fire department for a broken window.
            -The COVID-19 processes put in place at the building site has been successful
            -The masonry budgeted for $956k was awarded under budget at $950k.
            -A planning board meeting would be scheduled on Thursday June 11th to review the change to the
            permit related to the brick color
         2. School Committee 2020-2021 Meeting Schedule
            The committee discussed holding meetings on the 1st and 3rd Thursdays of each month beginning in
            September. It was also decided that due to February break, a second meeting would be scheduled for
            February 25th.

VI.     Closing Business
        New Business
        Prior to making a motion to enter into executive session, Ms. Gold lets the public know they would only
        return to open session for the purposes of adjournment.

VII.    Executive Session
        Ms. Gold made a motion to move into Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws:
        Chapter 30A, Section 21 exemption number 2 - To conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations
        with nonunion personnel and exemption number 3 - To discuss strategy with respect to collective
        bargaining with all school units if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position
        of the public body and the chair so declares.

        The motion was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor. A roll call vote was taken:

        Ms. Gold-yes
        Ms. Fox-yes
        Ms. Taylor-yes
        Ms. Harris-yes
        Ms. Schaeffner-yes

        The motion carries 5-0, all in favor.

                                                                                         Respectfully Submitted
                                                                                         Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                                         Marblehead School Committee

Approved September 17, 2020
