                            Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                          Thursday January 9, 2019
                                      Marblehead High School Library

Members Present:                        Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Jennifer Schaeffner, David Harris
                                        and Sarah Fox

Also:                                   William, H. McAlduff Jr.-Interim Superintendent
                                        Michelle Cresta-Director of Finance

Absent:

I.        Initial Business and Public Involvement
          1. Call to Order
               Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:01pm.

          2. Commendations
             Ms. Foxed thanked everyone involved with the Superintendent Search for their collaborative
             effort along the way.

              Ms. Gold also thanked the Superintendent Search Screening Committee for providing two
              fantastic candidates.

              Mr. Harris also thanked all members for being actively engaged in the process.

              When referencing visiting the high school during the candidate visit days, Ms. Fox
              mentioned how exciting it was to witness the energy of the dedicated staff as she walked
              through the hallways.

          3. Public Comment
             None

          4. Dan Howells, Student Rep, Junior and Class President
              Mr. Howells shared that the High School Performing Arts Department took a trip to go
                see a Broadway Show this past weekend.
              The Seniors have been busy working on their Superlatives, Senior Projects and Senior
                Trip
              Mid-Terms for all grades will begin Tuesday the 21st and the upperclassmen will provide
                special study groups for Freshmen leading up to the exams.

II.       Consent Agenda and Action Items
          1. Minutes:11/7/19
             Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the minutes from the November 7th meeting. Mr. Harris
             accepted the motion and it was seconded my Ms. Fox. The motion carries, 5-0 all in favor.

          2. Changes to Policy AC-R
             Superintendent McAlduff explained that the changes to Policy AC-R, the Nondiscrimination
             and Harassment Prevention Policy were in relation to a follow-up from the November 21st
             school committee meeting in which adjustments to policies AC and ACAB were made. He
          noted that the changes being proposed would formalize the language already approved under
          the ACAB Policy that was voted back in November.

          Ms. Gold made a motion for approval of the proposed changes for Policy AC-R. It was moved
          by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor. The motion carries, 5-0 all in favor.

III.   Superintendent Report
       1. Review and Discuss Draft of the 2020-2021 School Year Calendar Superintendent McAlduff
          shared that this is the time of the year that the school committee votes on a school year
          calendar for the following year. He explained that the process would be to first review, ask
          questions and then share with administrators and staff to allow time for feedback to be
          considered before making any modifications.

          He shared that Draft 1 would closely mimic the current years school calendar and noted that
          due to Rosh Hashanah falling on a weekend that there would be no two day break. He also
          mentioned that early release and professional development days had not been added yet.

          Superintendent McAlduff explained that Draft 2 would incorporate changes based on
          conversation he has had with administration and the education association.

          He shared that Draft 2 would provide the teachers with two full Teacher Days to start the year
          having school begin on a Wednesday and making the Friday before Labor Day a school day.
          Superintendent McAlduff noted that providing the extra school day to start the year would
          require a union vote due to the contractual language in collective bargaining agreement that
          states that if school starts before Labor Day that there would be no school the Friday before
          Labor Day.

          He also shared that another noticeable area to further discuss would be the month of
          December with a focus on parent conference days and scheduling December break for two
          full weeks. He noted that closing for the extra time could provide for some energy saving
          costs and allow family additional time for vacation they otherwise may not have the
          opportunity to take.

          The committee members shared their input regarding scheduling around religious holidays
          and asked a series of individual questions relating to early release days and parent
          conferences.

          Superintendent McAlduff stated that the plan moving forward would be for parents and staff
          to provide feedback which would be shared at an upcoming school committee meeting with
          the intent to vote on that feedback on February 6th so families could finalize their plans.

IV.    Finance Organizational Support
       1. Schedule of Bills
          Ms. Gold made a motion to approve all schedule of bills totaling $446,833.63 to which Ms.
          Schaeffner pointed out may not be the correct total as there were two totals on the memo.
          Superintendent McAlduff clarified that the correct total would be the one totaling
          $449,385.63. Ms. Gold then made a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling
          $449,385,63 which was moved by Ms. Schaeffner and seconded by Ms. Taylor. The motion
          carries, 5-0 all in favor.
2. FY20 Monthly Financial Report
   The Director of Finance presented her first monthly financial report to the school committee.
   She thanked the committee for the opportunity to serve as their Director and commented on
   the incredible administrative team and support staff she has worked with.

    Ms. Cresta shared that the school had already utilized 39.59% of their operating budget thus
    Far and mentioned that she will continue to monitor all accounts closely. She also shared
    that she would like to bring the school committee’s attention to certain areas such as the
    facilities and maintenance accounts to which they had already expended 74% of the budget,
    to the special education tuition and transportation fund for our of district O.O.D placements
    to which they were projecting a shortfall and to the utilities account that had already
    expended 45% of its budget.

   A conversation regarding utilizing the town’s energy reserve funds occurred. Ms. Taylor and
   Ms. Schaeffner inquired about the limit to meet the threshold and if that number would be
   inclusive of any already projected shortfalls to which it was agreed that further clarification
   from the town was needed.

   Superintendent McAlduff also noted that the funds expended from the facilities and
   maintenance accounts were utilized for vehicle maintenance and boiler repairs at the Coffin
   School. He further commented that the three basic issues with the boilers consisted of 1)
   motor repairs for one of the boilers 2) steam traps throughout the building that have
   deteriorated and that are currently being replaced and 3) electronic control systems that will
   need to be replaced with manual controls for more control. He shared that the school is
   already working with a combustion services specialist to address concerns and confirm a plan
   for ensuring a competent heating system moving forward.

3. FY20 Expenditure Reclassification Request
   Ms. Cresta asked that the school committee approve a reclassification of invoices from the
   FY19 Special Education 94-124 grant to the same FY20 grant so that the unpaid FY2019
   invoices could be paid under the originally intended grant since the grant money was able to
   be rolled over into FY20. She also noted that setting up grants and P.O in the system to better
   track funds would be something that would be looked more closely into for the next school
   year.

    Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the transfer of $7, 906.50 into the FY20 Special
    Education 94-124 Grant. It was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor. The motion
    carries 5-0, all in favor.

4. FY21 Budget Assumptions and Calendar
   Superintendent McAlduff shared that his intention was to have provided the school
   committee with a FY21 budget goals and a budget calendar spanning the next few months
   but that it would be helpful to take more time to review collected information to be able to
   put it together in a budget notebook. He highlighted some February and March dates to
   provide a tentative budget timeline and stated that February 6th would be a high level
   introduction to FY21 budgeting, followed by a Budget Workshop with Leadership Team and
   the budget Public Hearing tentatively scheduled for March 19th.
        Mr. Harris confirmed that there would be a meeting for the State of the Town on January 22nd
        to which that was confirmed.

        There was also a discussion about the new Student Opportunity Act and Chapter 70 funds and
        how it could affect districts financially which would be further discussed as more information
        would be provided. Ms. Schaeffner noted she would be attending a training on January 25th
        that would address the Student Opportunity Act and that she would report back.

V.   School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
     1. Superintendent Search Update
        Ms. Gold shared that the interviews with the two Superintendent candidate finalists, John
        Buckey and Theresa McGuiness had been put on the website and that final determinations
        about visiting the candidate districts would need to be discussed. Ms. Gold shared that both
        the following Monday and Thursday were being held as placeholders for visits.

         Ms. Fox shared that both Monday and Thursday night were also being held for deliberation if
         candidate site visits would not be occurring. Ms. Taylor stated that she would be interested in
         the site visits to see the candidates in action to which Ms. Gold confirmed she would feel
         comfortable with thorough reference checks instead of site visits to which the rest of the
         committee agreed. A final decision to deliberate on Monday and schedule a meeting for
         Tuesday January 14th was made.

         Superintendent McAlduff congratulated the committee on their two outstanding candidates
         and reminded the committee to come prepared to provide a high level summary of the
         candidate references and their decision.

     2. New Elementary School Naming Update – Review Suggested Names
        Ms. Schaeffner provided a list of the emailed suggestions that were submitted as potential
        names for the new elementary school. She read the list aloud and noted that the top name was
        Elbridge Gerry. Ms. Taylor thanked the community for all of the great feedback and Ms. Fox
        mentioned that voting on a name should be added as a future agenda item at one of the
        upcoming meetings.

     3. Building Project Update
        Mr. Harris shared that there would be a public forum scheduled for Monday January 13th and
        that Gilbane would present a 90 day look ahead and create an opportunity for getting
        community members signed up for future building project communication. He also shared
        that there would a joint building committee meeting with the school committee scheduled for
        Thursday January 16th at 7pm at the Glover School.

         Ms. Fox noted that she would like to see a memo that had been sent from building committee
         member, Caity Martin followed up with to which Mr. Harris commented that they could
         speak at an upcoming meeting.

         Ms. Schaeffner mentioned that she would like to see to if she could have things added to the
         building committee meeting agenda for the 16th.

     4. Sub-Committee Updates
              Ms. Taylor mentioned preparing for the State of the Town Meeting on the 22nd and mentioned
              other upcoming meetings she would be meeting with the town during and stated she would be
              updating everyone after the meetings.

              Ms. Schaeffner noted that the Policy Subcommittee had not yet met but that the manual was
              up to date and that they would meet as they needed to address policy changes.

              Ms. Fox shared that the Facilities Subcommittee had met twice already to go over the
              District’s comprehensive plans and revenue drivers. Ms. Schaeffner informed the committee
              that Ms. Cresta, the Finance Director and Mr. Bloodgood, the Facilities Director had
              completed a walkthrough of the buildings.

              Ms. Taylor shared that Health and Wellness Subcommittee had their first meeting in
              December. She explained that the representatives consisted of a member from Sustainable
              Marblehead, Food Service Director, Richard Kelleher a parent and Ms. Schaeffner. They will
              have a second meeting on January 13th when Mr. Kelleher will present about lunch trays.

VI.      Closing Business
         1. New Business
             None
         2. Adjournment
            Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:48pm

                                                                           Respectfully Submitted,
                                                                           Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                           Marblehead School Committee

Meeting Documents:
Changes to Policy-AC-R
Drafts of the 2020-2021 School Year Calendar
Schedule of Bills
FY20 Expenditure Reclassification Request
New Elementary School Naming Suggestions

Approved February 26, 2020
