                              Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                         Thursday April 2, 2020 7:00pm
                               Zoom Conference Call- https://zoom.us/j/854623629
                                             Meeting ID: 854623629
                                            OR Dial In (415) 762-9988


Members Present:                            Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Jennifer Schaeffner, David Harris
                                            and Sarah Fox

Also:                                       William, H. McAlduff Jr.-Interim Superintendent
                                            Michelle Cresta-Director of Finance
                                            Eric Oxford-Director of Student Service

Members Absent:

I. Initial Business and Public Involvement
   1. Call to Order
      Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:01pm. She asked that anyone who would like to participate in public
      comment should input their name and address into the chat function.
   2. Commendations
      Ms. Schaeffner thanked Superintendent McAlduff and his Assistant, Ms. Dimier for the work completed in
      updating the committee’s website and the commitment to get all of the information posted and up to date.
      Superintendent McAlduff thanked Ms. Schaeffner for the recognition and also credited his Assistant for the
      updates.
      Ms. Gold commended the Director of Student Services and the Principals along with the Teachers and staff for
      all of their hard work with the transition to remote learning. She credited the Remote Learning Task Force,
      Principals and Teachers for their innovative and creative ways in which to deal with the current difficult
      situation and shared that it was a great example of how the district comes together in a time of need.
   3. Public Comment
      Ms. Gold shared that a chat request to hold public comment later in the meeting had been sent. Ms. Gold stated
      that she would prefer to hold public comment as is and then also recommended a motion to hold public
      comment at the end of the meeting so that community members who would like to participate in public
      comment would not have to wait until the end of the meeting to speak if they would not be available for the
      entire meeting. Ms. Schaeffner moved the motion to hold public comment at both the beginning and end of the
      meeting. Ms. Fox seconded the motion and a roll call vote was taken.

     Ms. Gold-Yes
     Ms. Taylor-Yes
     Ms. Fox-Yes
     Ms. Schaeffner-Yes
     Mr. Harris-Yes

     The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

     Ms. Gold called on Catherine Martin for public comment. Ms. Martin explained that she would prefer to share
     her parent input regarding remote learning at the end of the meeting after updates had been provided.

     Ms. Gold then called on community member Blair Nelson who was unable to be heard. It was decided that he
     would also comment at the end of the meeting.

     Ms. Gold noted that Student Representative, Dan Howells recently provided updates at the last committee
     meeting and would provide his feedback on the new remote learning plan at the next regularly scheduled
     meeting to be held on the 16th.

II. Consent Agenda and Action Items
     1. Acceptance of Donation
        Superintendent McAlduff referenced a memo he sent the committee regarding a generous donation
        received from the Barbara S Gray Revocable Trust totaling a sum of $549,948,88. He shared that a partial
        distribution was received in 2017 and that the remaining amount was distributed in February. He shared
        that the documents noted that the donation was restricted for use for scholarship funds in memory of
        Donald J. and Barbara S. Gray. It was mentioned that Lynnfield High School also received a donation for
        the same purpose.

         Ms. Gold made a motion that the Marblehead School Committee accept the donation of $534, 948.88 with
         sincere gratitude to the Trustees of the Barbara S. Gray Revocable Trust. The motion was moved by Ms.
         Fox and seconded by Ms. Schaeffner. A conversation regarding how the account had been set up and any
         restrictions involved with the investing or dispersing of funds was discussed. It was shared that the
         donation would be managed in an account that had previously been set up by the Town. Superintendent
         McAlduff mentioned that asking for updates regarding the funds was reasonable and doable at a future
         time. After the discussion, Ms. Taylor requested that a “Thank you” letter be sent.

         A roll call vote was taken:

         Ms. Gold-Yes
         Ms. Taylor-Yes
         Ms. Fox-Yes
         Mr. Harris-Yes
         Ms. Schaeffner-Yes

         The motion carries, 5-0 all in favor.

III. Superintendent Report
     1. School Closure Update
        a. Remote Learning Plan
           The Director of Student Services, Eric Oxford explained the process of how the remote learning plan
           would be implemented. He thanked the task force for all of their hard work in completing a comprehensive
           plan in just six days. He shared that a remote learning site was being built and that the Principals would be
           meeting on Friday April 3rd to review and finalize the plan for rollout. He further mentioned that parents
           would receive an invitation to the site prior to it going live on Tuesday April 7 th. Mr. Oxford noted that the
           learning plan considered grades Pre-K-age 22 and the use of Google Classroom for all grades. He
           explained that per the recommendation of Commissioner Riley that plans should focus on mirroring a half
           day of learning while maximizing the digital experience and incorporating offline project based
           enrichment. He also noted that Individualized Education Plan (IEP) meetings would be held virtually as
           they could be. Mr. Oxford reminded the community and committee members that flexibility and
           engagement would be important during such unprecedented times.
        b. Contracted Service Payments
           Superintendent McAlduff referenced a memo he had received from the Commissioner of Elementary and
           Secondary Education, Jeffrey Riley regarding recommendations for contracted service payments. He
           shared that the memo provided guidance to all schools in the state recommending that districts should
           continue to make all payments towards Out of District, O.O.D placements, Collaborative and Recovery
           High School placements and towards all Private Day Out of District placements as well as all students that
           have been residentially placed.
        c. Transportation Update
           Superintendent McAlduff shared that guidance that had recently been issued from DESE and the Federal
           Office of Management and Budget recommended working with transportation providers to negotiate pay
         through the school closure. He explained that the goal was to ensure continuity of service so providers
         would be able to remain in business and available when the schools were able to be reopened.
      d. FY20 Possible Impacts
         I. Pre-Kindergarten & Kindergarten Tuitions
            The Director of Finance, Ms. Cresta informed the committee that the business office had previously
            billed for March tuition for both the Pre-K and Kindergarten tuitions totaling around $53K. She shared
            that the district had not yet billed for the month of April. Ms. Cresta noted that should the committee
            decide to move forward with not billing for tuition that there would be a monthly shortfall of $53k each
            month moving forward to take into consideration.

           Superintendent McAlduff recommended that the district continue to receive tuition payments as the
           revenue was used to pay the staff salaries for both the Pre-K and Kindergarten grade levels. He further
           clarified that the district would work with families experiencing financial hardship.

         II. Food Service Costs
            This agenda item was taken out of order and was discussed before the discussion on tuition payments.
             The Director of Finance, Ms. Cresta explained that a total of eight kitchen workers had been working
             two rotating days a week to prepare food for the bagged meals the Village School had been distributing
             to families in need. She shared that the district would be looking at a $62k deficit for payroll salaries
             from the beginning of the closure in mid-March through the projected closure date of May 4 th. She also
             pointed out the deficit could grow if the closure was extended.

            Superintendent McAlduff noted that under the Federal Stimulus Program for COVID 19 related
            expenses, schools may be able to apply for a waiver that would reimburse a portion of the meal costs.

           A discussion regarding ways in which to offset the potential deficits took place.

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills
        Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $278,964.75. The motion was
        moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Schaeffner. A roll call vote was taken.

         Ms. Gold-Yes
         Ms. Taylor-Yes
         Ms. Fox-Yes
         Ms. Schaeffner-Yes
         Mr. Harris-Yes

         The motion carries, 5-0 all in favor.

    2.   FY21 Capital – Adjustment
         Superintendent McAlduff mentioned that the committee recently voted to approve the FY21 Capital Plan.
         He further explained that after receiving updated estimates to replace the Veterans Middle School library
         carpet and gymnasium floors that the new estimates provided a savings of $11k. It was noted that deadlines
         for submitting the plan to the Town had been extended and that the Superintendent would resubmit an
         amended plan to Town Administrator, Jason Silva and the Finance Committee should the School
         Committee vote to do so.
         Ms. Gold made a motion to amend the total cost of the previously approved FY21 Capital Plan from
         $177,750 to $166,593. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Schaeffner. A roll call
         vote was taken.

         Ms. Gold-Yes
         Ms. Taylor-Yes
         Ms. Fox-Yes
         Ms. Schaeffner-Yes
         Mr. Harris-Yes

         The motion carries, 5-0 all in favor.

    3.   FY21 Proposed Budget
         Superintendent McAlduff mentioned that there had been no changes to the budget and noted that he was
         sharing and updated budget adjustment tracking sheet as some of the columns were not fully filled in the
         last time it was shared.
         a. Timeline Update
         Superintendent McAlduff shared that there had been no adjusted timeline for the budget process as of yet.
         He explained the School Committee would still need to meet with the Town Finance Committee to review
         the FY21 budget and hold a public hearing. He noted that it may best to wait to schedule until the
         committee had a better understanding of whether or not the Annual Town Meeting would be held as
         scheduled for May 4th. It was also shared that legislation was currently be considered to allow
         municipalities to extend their deadlines to vote their budgets through the summer. He also reported that per
         the Attorney General, meetings could be held virtually and without violating the open meeting law.

V. School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
   1. School Building Project Update
     Mr. Harris shared that the decision for the exterior materials for the new elementary school were selected
     during a Zoom meeting last Thursday. He also mentioned that a pre-blast surevey had gone out to thirty two
     residents explaining that pre-blasting inspections would be completed after the demolition and abatement had
     been finished. Mr. Harris noted that the abatement would be complete by the end of the next week and the
     focus would shift to the demolition of the Upper Bell site. He reported that twenty one had replied, four had not
     responded and other residents either declined or responded with restrictions. A conversation regarding concerns
     about visitors entering the homes of the Marblehead residents during the Corona Virus took place. Mr. Harris
     confirmed that homeowners should not lose rights in the event damages occur if they waived the pre-blast
     inspection. Although no formal vote was taken, it was decided that Ms. Harris would speak with Leftfield and
     Gilbane regarding pushing the inspection back by about one month and update the committee as information
     was provided.

VI. Closing Business
    Ms. Gold opened the meeting up to public comment.
    Ms. Catherine Martin of Westshore Drive shared her concerns regarding the accessibility of remote learning
    documents and assignments. She explained that receiving documents prior to when a parents remote work day
    may begin allows time for preparation of materials. She also shared her input on the pre-blasting inspections
    stating that “The situation was a tough one to be in and that we needed to do right by our residents while
    considering project delays due to implications from pushing things back.”

   Blair Nelson was unreachable for comment.

   Mr. Patrick Noonan inquired about the plan for IEP reevaluations and the plan for the delivery of services in
   the time of remote learning.

   The Director of Student Services, Mr. Oxford reminded the community that flexibility would be important. He
   noted that service providers would be part of the collective academic plan and that they would be reaching out to
   families individually to create an appropriate plan. He further shared that meetings would be held virtually and
   that reevaluations could also be held virtually specifying that only if the lack of face to face time would not
   interfere with the validity of the results. It was noted that there would be a SEPAC Zoom meeting on April 8th at
   12pm.
    1. New Business
         None. Ms. Fox thanked everyone for all of their work during the closure. Ms. Gold shared that the next
         scheduled meeting would be on the 16th with the potential for one other later in the week or the following
         Monday.
    2.   Adjournment
         Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 10:08pm .


                                                       Respectfully Submitted
                                                       Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                       Marblehead School Committee

Approved June 18, 2020
