                                 Marblehead School Committee
                                          May 27, 2020
                                            7:00 PM
            Zoom Conference Call-Meeting ID: 933 2002 9565 & Password 161196
      https://zoom.us/j/93320029565?pwd=ZmN0UDNEeXpQazhDdUhObGEvdG1pUT09
                       Dial In (415) 762-9988 with ID and follow prompts
                                   Meeting ID: 933 2002 9565


I.       Call to Order
         Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:02pm.

II.      Assistant Superintendent Interview (s)
         Superintendent McAlduff opened the meeting stating that it was a special meeting to be
         introducing finalist candidate Nan Murphy for the position of Assistant Superintendent to
         the district. He took the time to recognize: the members of the search advisory committee
         noting the school committee members Ms. Schaeffner and Ms. Taylor who participated, the
         members of the administration team that took part, Ms. Michelle Cresta, Veterans Principal,
         Mr. Matthew Fox and Glover Principal, Mr. Brian Ota. He also recognized the additional staff
         members who were part of the search committee, naming teachers Ms. Robin Feins, Mr.
         Eric Fargo, and Mr. Jonathan Heller. It was noted that parents Melissa Kaplowitch and Paul
         Baker along with incoming Superintendent Dr. John Buckey also participated in the search
         committee. He thanked the members for their commitment and hours of time put into the
         search.

         Superintendent McAlduff explained that Ms. Murphy would begin the meeting introducing
         herself to the community. He informed the committee that there would be time for
         questions and answers and then a formal vote should the committee move forward with the
         recommendation to appoint Nan Murphy as incoming Assistant Superintendent to the
         district.

         Ms. Murphy shared that she was thankful for the opportunity to meet everyone and noted
         that she valued and understood the vetting process to secure the candidate as “the best fit
         for the community and the Marblehead team.” She explained that she has been a life-long
         educator having taught at the elementary school level for sixteen years. Ms. Murphy
         informed the committee that her first administrative role was as an Assistant Principal
         at an elementary school in Lowell. Mr. Murphy shared that after a year and a half she
         moved into the role of Principal at a time when the school was a low performing, high needs
         level 3 school. She further noted that she was able to develop a strong shared leadership
         model and team approach in which teachers and administrative staff worked together to
         align curriculum practices to support the school in becoming a Level 1 school after only four
         years. It was mentioned that her next role as the Director of Accountability of School
         Improvement in Lowell was created by the Superintendent of schools with a focus on
         working with the primarily underperforming schools. The role consisted of implementing a
         professional development plan for about 100 district leaders including; Directors, Principals
         and Assistant Principals and the Superintendents. Ms. Murphy mentioned that she moved
         on to her position with the Department of Education after two years in her Director role in
         Lowell which was where she currently remained. It was shared that in her current role, she
             worked with underperforming districts to work with their leadership teams to provide plans
             for sustainable improvement. She noted that she missed being part of a district’s
             professional development team and the relationship building that coincided with the
             professional development processes. Ms. Murphy stated that she was excited for the
             opportunity to “work alongside the Marblehead Superintendent elect who seemed like a
             great collaborator.”

            The school committee asked a series of questions focusing on the philosophy of education,
            issues surrounding a child’s ability to access curriculum and the strengths Ms. Murphy felt
            she could bring to a new administrative team.

    III.     Possible Vote on Assistant Superintendent Appointment
             Superintendent McAlduff thanked Dr. Buckey for taking the time and effort to be involved in
             the process. He read a statement from the memo he provided to the school committee
             recommending Ms. Murphy stating that “she was a collaborative team player who was an
             excellent communicator; personable, approachable and a leader who models openness,
             fairness and dedication to students staff and parents.” He further noted that colleagues
             described her as “clear, focused and strategic.”

             Ms. Gold made a motion that the Marblehead School Committee appoint Ms. Nan Murphy
             as the Assistant Superintendent of Schools subject to successful contract negotiations. The
             motion was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor. Mr. Harris thanked the
             committee members and incoming Superintendent, Dr. Buckey for their involvement and
             engagement. Ms. Taylor shared that she felt Ms. Murphy would complement the team well.
             A roll call vote was taken.

             Ms. Gold-yes
             Ms. Schaeffner-yes
             Ms. Taylor-yes
             Ms. Fox-yes
             Mr. Harris-yes

             The motion carries, 5-0 all in favor.

    IV.      Adjournment
             Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 7:42pm.

                                                                                Respectfully Submitted
                                                                                Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                                Marblehead School Committee

Approved September 3, 2020
