                       Marblehead School Committee Emergency Meeting
                                        August 10, 2020
                                            7:00 PM
                 Zoom Conference - Meeting ID 91485431430 & Password: 303665
     https://zoom.us/j/91485431430?pwd=VTdOTVpGemFZVXR5ckdkcXFIYnZnQT09
                          Dial In (415) 762-9988 with ID and follow prompts
                                       Meeting ID 91485431330

I.Initial Business

 Sarah Gold called the meeting to order at 7:05 pm

 Ms Gold read the following statement: Public comment is a time for citizens to express their
 opinions on school committee business. Objective criticism is fine but verbal attacks, bullying
 and aggressive behavior is not. As a mother and school counselor I do not tolerate such
 behavior and I will not tolerate such behavior as the chairperson of this committee
 either. Anyone who cannot maintain a civil discourse will be muted and they can be removed
 from the meeting if necessary. Also, please be mindful of the fact that your children are
 listening, possibly not tonight but certainly in daily life. It is not OK for any children of school
 committee members to be harassed by a school mate over their parents beliefs on a school
 oversite plan no matter how much you disagree with that persons belief. I ask that you all listen
 to Dr Buckey’s plan tonight with an open mind. Everyone has had an opportunity to view the
 plan and to debate it all over facebook, however the school committee has not had a chance to
 hear Dr Buckey present his plan in full We are looking forward to hearing from him and having
 the chance to ask questions and discuss this proposal before taking a vote. Please understand
 this will be the first time we will be able to discuss and deliberate the proposal. Once public
 comment has started I will allow people to speak for two minutes each. Since I anticipate many
 people will be interested in making public comment, I will ask that much like at town meeting, if
 someone has already made your point please consider lowering your hand and not stating
 similar points again. If you have something new to add to the conversation then please do raise
 your hand. The school committee needs time to listen to Dr Buckey’s plan so that we can ask
 questions. We will be limiting public comment to one hour to start tonight. If at that point in time
 there are still many people waiting to make public comment I will ask for a motion to add an
 additional public comment at the end of the meeting.

   II.   Public Comment

 Erin Noonan, 15 Beverly Ave. Ms Noonan thanked the committee. MS Noonan stated she
 closely followed the process and last week when she was informed the year would begin remote
 she was surprised, Ms Noonan asked what conditions had changed to lead to this. Ms Noonan
 asked what conditions were needed to transition to a hybrid model. Ms Noonan asked if a
 presentation of these metrics to the committee occurred and asked if such metrics were not
 available that the committee not vote to approve the plan tonight.

 Kate Thomson, Bubier Rd. Ms Thompson read a letter signed by the re-opening committee
 members, unanimously. The reopening committee includes John Buckey, Nan Murphy, Brian
 Ota, Mandy Murphy, Donna Zaeske, Sean Satterfield, Matt Fox, Dan Bauer, Joan Miller, Eric
 Oxford, Todd Bloodgood, Michelle Cresta, Kathleen Hennessey, Sarah Gold, Helaine Hazlett,
Kate Heasche Thomson, Caroline Laramie, Steph Callahan, Scott Solberg, Fiona Trimarchi and
Sophie Hauck.

Ms Thomson noted she was paraphrasing the letter in the interest of time. Ms Thomson
noted that the committee worked with Dr Buckey throughout the summer to help sort through
and sift through all the recommendations rom all the subcommittees and the committee kept the
safety of the community, teachers and students in the forefront of their work. Ms Thomson
continued, the committee spent countless hours digesting all the reasons to open and the many
risks associated with a rush to in person learning. Ms Thomson stated the committee poured
through the ever evolving guidelines and protocols and performed a cost benefit
analysis. Feedback from the community , staff surveys and listening sessions were
considered. Experiences of communities across the country were observed. Ms Thomson
noted the committee considered the opinions of experts in the fields of education, child
psychology, pediatrics, public health and more. Ms Thomson stated following careful
consideration of the risks and benefits of a myriad hybrid approaches they as a team expressed
agreement to start the school year in remote learning with the intention to get back to in person
as soon as safe for our community. Ms Thomson noted the recommendation is based on the
fact that as a nation we have not yet controlled this pandemic, we have not yet established
reliable systems for testing or reporting, and we have not had enough time with the virus to
understand its potential to spread within community groups like schools. Ms Thomson noted
the committee is in lock step with the Marblehead Board of Health and that the committee does
not see a path forward yet for in person instruction that is safe for the community. Ms Thomson
continues, however varied our individual roles within the district, our love for the Marblehead
Public Schools, our concern for the safety our desire to implement equitable and innovative re-
entry approaches that meet the needs of all learners is ubiquitous. Therefore, we urge you to
recommend a phased-in approach beginning with a fully remote opening.

Jonathan Letterman. Mr Letterman noted that at this point the need for some type of remote
learning was clear. Mr Letterman continued, by asking about different curriculum formats that
would be utilized in the remote format and asked that more detail be given regarding how that
would work and what involvement local teachers would have in terms of overseeing that
instruction. Mr Letterman asked for more specifics regarding edgenuity and any others. Ms
Letterman asked for additional specific about how students would be allowed to migrate back
into the schools and how grade would be determined.

Elizabeth. Noted a need to stop the “us against them” mentality Elizabeth asked for common
sense to win over fear and noted we needed to take care of the vulnerable. Elizabeth noted
children need to be in the classroom when possible and sited the American Academy of
Pediatrics and Governor Baker. Elizabeth ask that numbers in perspective and stated only 28
children had died from Corona virus to date. Ms Elizabeth noted in 2016 116 children died of
influenza or pneumonia and listed other pediatric death rates for other diseases. Ms Elizabeth
asked that a compelling case for reopening schools be listened to and asked not to suppress
the majority due to minority fear.

Becky Suciu. Ms Suciu stated that regardless of the return to school plan that the opportunity to
get children together in person socially be a priority. Ms Suciu noted several outdoor options to
facilitate her suggestion.

Kevin Alimara. Mr Alimara thanked the committee and Dr Buckey. Mr Alimara asked what the
criteria to back is and noted his concerns regarding the letter Ms Thomson read. Mr Alimara
asked that no vote take place without clear metrics. Mr Alimara asked to open the lower
elementary for in person learning immediately as was done in Beverly.

Peter Tettlebaum. Mr Tettlebaum stated that any remote learning be live. Mr Tettlebaum stated
that while remote is not ideal, when it is live it is as good as it gets and noted independent work
is not effective

Mike Armini. Mr Armini noted he was speaking on behalf of his daughter and that he was on the
senior leadership team at Northeastern University. Mr Armini noted Northeastern was doing a
ful reopening due to the residential portion of the university. Mr Armini noted he felt a K-12
system that has no boarding is capable of opening to in person learning and asked the problem
be addressed as the virus will not be going away time soon. Mr Armini noted the school
committee does not work for the teachers union but rather for the residents and students of
Marblehead.

Peter Gorba. Mr Gorba noted he agreed that established metrics for reentry are needed and
asked for more details regarding the phased reopening as it pertains to various grade levels Mr
Gorba noted low positivity rates right now and asked that a return to in person learning happen
soon. Mr Gorba asked for grading and testing of our students academic progress.

Patricia Featherstone. Ms Featherstone noted she had a MHS student. Ms Featherstone asked
what platform would be used for remote learners and asked that the district adopt an online
learning platform to help our students learn.

Kimberly Poitevin. Ms Poitevin noted she appreciated the thoughtful work done by the
reopening committees and realized that there is a lot of pushback from parents. Ms Poitevin
asked the committee to make a decision based on the work done by the committee.

Shannon Borthwick. Ms Borthwick asked that the youngest learners be able to return to in
person learning immediately and that the district look at outdoor learning options. Ms Borthwick
asked what the fallback plan is when numbers increase.

Tinieya Searcy. Ms Searcy noted she lives in Dorchester and is a parent of a METCO
student. Ms Searcy asked how she would work with her son if the schools do not open as a
medical worker. Ms Searcy noted being a working mother and the travel requirements of her
son to get to school were an additional challenge and asked if her son needed to attend school
via zoom how he would get is needs met including his learning disability.

Caitlyn Ridgely. Ms Ridgely asked what social emotional plans have been set forth to meet
younger learner’s specific needs.

Deborah Whitney. Ms Whitney asked if a dashboard with all metrics would be published so the
community can gauge at any given time what factors are being considered.

Margaret Clark. Ms Clark stated her concern is having young students sit for hours on zoom
and what plans are there to make the content engaging enough to encourage the students.

Kristen Stiles. Ms Stiles asked if there was a way to have smaller groups of children being
taught in person or virtual. Ms Stiles noted small groups for younger students would be
beneficial.
Kristen Pratt. Ms Pratt stated according to several agencies that health metrics are being met
and asked that the schools clearly state their metrics for reopening schools if they are
different. Ms Pratt noted she does not feel remote learning works for young learners.

Kate Phillip. Ms Phillips asked why the younger children are getting so little in person learning
and she felt older students would manage remote learning much better. Ms Phillip asked if the
district could repurpose the buildings to allow for full in person learning for elementary. Ms
Phillip asked if the alternating day of Wednesday could change to Friday as most working
families in her opinion have more flexibility on Fridays. Ms Phillip also asked about the cohort
selection and asked if there was an option to swap cohort in order to coordinate with friends to
cover child care needs.

Neil Singer. Mr Singer thanked everyone for the decision to wait a bit more and take reopening
slowly. Mr Singer noted he felt it was a poor comparison to look at the local area related to
Florida. Mr Singer noted if Essex county was a sovereign nation we would be the 25 worst in
the world. Mr Singer noted doing better than Florida or Texas was a far cry from saying we
have our numbers under control.

Sandra Callahan. MS Callahan asked if working families had been looked at for alternative care
models. Ms Callahan asked who will be teaching the students remotely.

Gary Shapira. Mr Shapira stated he is concerned that no one is discussing how we can
support teachers. Ms Shapira asked to weigh all the factors equally.

Micheal Michelle. Mr Michelle noted he was an essential worker and that he adheres to a strict
policy of PPE. Mr Michelle noted he had a senior and was concerned that he daughter would
not get as good of an education as his other children that had gone through the MPS
system. Ms Michelle asked for metrics that would allow for in person learning. Mr Michelle
noted he felt in person learning was the only way to provide the education needed for
students. Mr Michelle noted when PPE is used, risk is minimal.

Xhazzie Kindle. Ms Kindle noted class lists are often very difficult to get and noted this year that
information would be very important to allow families to make connections for this year.

Tanya. Tanya noted she was an incoming MHS student and was nervous what to expect for
her daughter who has an IEP. Tayna also noted she was a METCA parent and that the
numbers in Boston were still very high. Ms Tanya expressed concern about students being
carriers from higher incident areas and wanted to know how the METCO bus would work.

Jeffry Freidman. Mr Friedman asked what curriculum would be taught and how that would
happen remotely. Mr Freidman stated that as a parent of older students he was ok with older
students being remote to allow for younger students the physical space for more in person
learning.

Jeff Hoffman. Mr Hoffman stated the evidence is clear that students need in person
learning. Mr Hoffman gave examples of how effective in person learning is. Mr Hoffman stated
he felt parents should be able to make use of the money allocated to the schools for the
purpose of educating students for homeschool, private or other means. Mr Hoffman advocated
for student choice and vouchers.
Kerry Power. Ms Power asked how the school system will address the mental health, fear and
anxiety of the virus for students.

Jen Jackson. Ms Jackson asked if an option was available to have students split between
cohorts to allow parents time to help their students at different times.

Charles Ngowe. Mr Ngowe stated remote planning is a burden on working parents and asked
how many hours a day remote learning would be.

Ms Gold noted an hour had passed and if there was a need public comment could be
readdressed at the end of the meeting.

 III. Reentry plan discussion

Dr Buckey presented the reopening plan which can be found on the district website.

Due to technical difficulties, Ms Gold called for a motion for recess until 8:35

Meagan Taylor moved the motion.

David Harris seconded the motion.

Meagan Taylor took a roll call vote

       Emily Barron             Yes
       David Harris             Yes
       Sarah Fox                Yes
       Sarah Gold               Yes
       Meghan Taylor            was not called in the roll call

       Motion Passes 4-0-1

The meeting was called back to order at 8:36.

Dr Buckey continues with the presentation of the reopening plan which can be found on the
district website.

Dr Buckey opened the discussion to school committee members.

Sarah Gold addressed the members of the public who had been writing on the screen during Dr
Buckey’s presentation and asked for better decorum.

Ms Gold addressed an email that was sent by Ms Fox to the committee and noted that after
consulting the attorney general's office it was decided the email would be added to the minutes
for this meeting. The email sent by Ms Fox was a forward of an email that Ms Fox had sent to
Dr Buckey and Ms Murphy with an additional note stating Ms Fox wanted to keep the committee
informed of her communication with the administration. Ms Gold noted she did not feel it
required the email to be read.

Ms Gold noted she would be opening comments to Ms Taylor, Mr Harris and Ms Barron first as
Ms Fox and herself had participated in the reopening committees.

Ms Taylor thanked the community for their engagement and also all members of the reopening
subcommittees and oversight committee. Ms Taylor noted she felt the committees presented
broad representation of the community. Ms Taylor read a statement, “Everyone had worked
together to determine how to present a safe, quality and equitable education during a period of
uncertainty and the ever changing landscape of a global pandemic. We all have the best
interest of our students and staff at the forefront of our minds as we go through this. Like
everyone else who has spoken, every parent, every staff and community member this is all I
think about, it is all I talk about, it's all I read about, I wake up thinking about it, I go to sleep
thinking about it. I read and consider every email that comes to us and every conversation I
have with a parent or community member. I have read all of the subcommittee notes, the
hundreds of pages of DESE guidance, and attended all the superintendent listening sessions,
the SEPAC listening sessions to hear the questions and concerns that parents and community
members are raising. Similar to the reopening committee I have reviewed the plans of other
districts and the myriad research recommendations from medical experts. There is so much
information. There are so many opinions and there are numerous approaches to this
challenging and sometimes quite heartbreaking situation that we find ourselves in. My
preference quite honestly is, and I haven't heard anyone say this, is that we want our children
back in school with our teachers. That is the ideal. That is the ultimate goal but the question
really has to be how do we do that in a way that is safe for our students, our staff and our
community and also in a way that is well thought out. So my reaction to this plan, John, is that I
do think it is measured and it's thoughtful and it provides necessary training for our staff and
applies recommendations from our local board of health and the CDC. I am very appreciative,
John, that you have taken into account what you have heard during the listening sessions and
you and your team have gone back and made numerous adjustments. Again I feel that
constructive feedback has been imperative to the overall process. I appreciate the phased
approach, it is done deliberately and is a thoughtful way to go about it. I appreciate the attention
to special education students as well. Also in this plan, which I think is something we absolutely
have to have, is the time for training our teachers so they can be successful in a vastly different
workplace.”

Ms Taylor noted there were a few things she wanted to discuss. Ms Taylor noted needs of early
learners are different and the move from remote to hybrid did not provide for those needs. Ms
Taylor stated she felt it was not developmentally appropriate to expect young learners to
navigate remote learning. Ms Taylor asked to look at K-3 and any constraints then work to
mitigate those in order to get K-3 back to in person learning sooner. Ms Taylor wanted to
cement opportunities for young children to create relationships with peers and teachers in the
plan. Ms Taylor also asked that transition grades be given extra time to acclimate to their
schools. Ms Taylor continued, and asked to cement in the plan any parent expectations.

Ms Taylor suggested any outdoor space be utilized if possible. Ms Taylor noted extended year
services ended the previous week and asked if those services could be extended with the
delayed start of the school year.
Dr Buckey responded the team is looking into outdoor options including tent rentals and the
feasibility of that. Dr Buckey noted principals are currently identifying outdoor spaces for mask
breaks and social emotional learning. Dr Buckey continued by saying he shares concerns for
our earliest learners and was willing to look at phasing the early elementary in sooner for in
person learning. Dr Buckey noted the difference in how classroom will appear will be more of
an adjustment for younger students as well therefore would try to get them started with that
sooner.

Ms Barron noted an issue was currently happening on the youtube channel featuring the
meeting.

Ms Barron thanked everyone who worked to put the plan together. Ms Barron noted she
wanted students back to in person learning as soon as possible but she agreed with Dr Buckey
and the reopening committee that it was best to start with a remote start. Ms Barron asked what
does “safely” mean when referring to returning to school safely. Ms Barron stated it is really
important that each class whether remote or hybrid in person, be filmed and uploaded to a class
webpage to allow for review later by students in addition to allowing for quarantined students to
view when unable to attend in person. Ms Barron recognized there would be issues with
cameras and cost but felt it was important to still provide these recordings. Ms Barron stated it
is very important to work with the children who are suffering emotionally due to school closures
and the pandemic and to give the staff the appropriate training to respond to these emotional
needs.

Dr Buckey responded that he agrees that despite how well we are supported by school
counselors that we still need to make sure we have systems in place to identify students in
need. Dr Buckey reiterated that bringing students into schools that look so different will be an
issue that will need to be addressed.

Ms Barron noted the students will return to will be drastically different socially as well.

Mr Harris thanked Kate Thomson and Sarah Gold for working hard this weekend to make sure
this platform would be functional. Mr Harris noted he echoes the sentiments of Ms Taylor and
Ms Barron and wanted to start with revisit three comments Dr Buckey made during his
presentation. The first, that we are fending for ourselves and that can be both good and bad but
does allow us some flexibility. Mr Harris noted how lucky we are to have such a qualified
staff. Mr Harris noted the second statement from Dr Buckey was how we wanted this plan to be
safe, systematically organized reentry. Mr Harris noted while he wanted students back in
school he needed to refer to the experts on the reopening committees. Mr Harris said the third
Dr Buckey had said that Mr Harris wanted to note was Joan Miller and the teachers are working
hand in hand with the administration. Mr Harris stated that is all we can as for.

Mr Harris asked if we would be providing chromebooks for all or are we comfortable with letting
families ask for technology when needed. Dr Buckey noted we can make technology available
to anyone who needs it and that the majority of families responded they had access to
technology currently.

Mr Harris asked what the plan was for athletics if we start remotely. Dr Buckey noted he has a
call in to the director of MIAA to confirm the remote start will not preclude students from
partaking in athletics. Mr Harris asked if the step up days his son had experienced would be
possible. Dr Buckey replied that he was planning these events in smaller groups. Mr Harris
noted the preliminary draft submission noted the preference was hybrid and currently we are
hearing that other area districts are currently planning to start hybrid. Mr Harris noted from July
31 to today what changed to lead us to a remote start. Dr Buckey responded it was not one
thing rather committees looking at all the “yes, but” considerations that arose and realizing that
many things still needed to be worked out. Dr Buckey stated he felt that a slow transition would
allow for more success. Mr Harris asked if another survey of parents would happen asking for
confirmation of their choice for their student to return to in person learning or stay remote. Dr
Buckey replied yes. Mr Harris asked if someone chose to remain remote, and we were not
farming out remote education would that decision be something students needed to stay with for
the entire semester. Dr Buckey replied he is trying to maintain a voice and choice policy but
there would need to be transition points at the quarter or trimester.

Mr Harris asked if a vote of this board is required for Dr Buckey to submit the plan on Friday or
can Dr Buckey submit without a vote of approval. Ms Gold noted there was conflicting
information and that it was her understanding a vote was required. Ms Taylor stated she was
on a MASC call regarding this matter and the recommendation was to vote prior to submission
but it was not required. Dr Buckey stated he would appreciate the support of the committee and
noted that districts could apply for a waiver if they do not have a school committee vote for
approval but he wished to have the vote.

Ms Gold noted she sat on the oversight committee for the reentry plan and attended all the
plans take place. Ms Gold noted she agreed with the letter put forth by the oversight reopening
committee. Ms Gold stated a student on the reopening committee said it was more important to
them to finish in person than start the year in person and that statement was very powerful to
her. Ms Gold noted there was not going to be a plan that creates the environment known back
in March. Ms Gold stated she saw first hand at Tower how well synchronous learning worked
for remote students. Ms Gold noted she saw social emotional situations arise in the remote
setting but also saw students thrive at Tower. Ms Gold noted that as a therapist she has been
very focused on the totality of what school brings for students and has been concerned about
bringing students into an incredibly anxiety provoking situation. Ms Gold stated she wanted to
find a balance between school being a safe place for some students and parents needing to
utilize it for child care against the heightened stress of bringing students into the environment
necessary for Covid. Ms Gold noted there are many variables that go into these decisions and
the remote start would allow all these pieces to be worked out.

Ms Gold asked Dr Buckey what the PreK situation was. Dr Buckey replied that Eric Oxford was
currently working on an all day option for PreK. Ms Gold asked to clarify if PreK fell under Mr
Oxford because it was part of our special education program. Dr Buckey answered yes.

Ms Fox noted one of the recurring questions received via email from the public was metrics and
we were waiting for a clearer answer to that. Ms Fox asked if we do not know those metrics,
what metrics were used to get to this decision. Dr Buckey answered that for him it was more of
a question of “because we can, should we?” Dr Buckey stated that yes we could start
September 14 but for the reasons explained it is a safer alternative to do a phased approach to
a return to in person learning. Ms Gold noted through the work with the board of health this
decision was made to start remote.

Ms Fox noted 50% of staff come from other areas as well as the METCO students and our
tuition in students, all who we want to make sure we include as well therefore we can not just
look at Marblehead’s numbers. Ms Fox also noted there are facilities limitations and cited
documents available on the district website which list village school third floor being plagued by
a lack of proper ventilation, Coffin school has numerous issues with HVAC systems including
ventilation systems and noted the Glover school not having operable windows in the
cafetorium. Ms Fox noted these are all very real factual hurdles that would need to be worked
out and addressed and that this decision is based on those not any demands that are coming
from the teachers union. Ms Fox noted many people seem to think the teachers union drove
the decision for a remote start but rather the union has been very collaborative. Ms Fox
referenced an article Dr Buckey had sent to the committee regarding how the social emotional
negative impact may be greater by returning students to such a stressful environment that is so
different from what we all are used to as a school being. Ms Fox agreed that nothing short of
full in person learning will make students and teachers whole but that we are all mourning for a
way of education that does not currently exist and wont for some time. Ms Fox noted that our
early learners need the foundation of Math and ELA to be successful but they also need to feel
secure, that the adults in their world are keeping them safe. Ms Fox noted her concern that by
bringing them into an environment where we are constantly talking to them about the danger
around them may harm may actually erode the foundation of education we are trying to create
for them and instead be making them see schools as a place of fear that may harm them.

Ms Fox asked for clarification if teachers being on site while teaching remote will be optional or
mandatory. Ms Fox noted she wanted to make sure we were treating our teachers as
professionals, noting we trust them with our children and we should trust them to conduct
themselves professionally whether remote or in person. Ms Fox stated there was a need for
flexibility while still setting high standards. Dr Buckey replied he had a great working
relationship with MEA and stated employment layers would make a killing in the next 6 months
because there are so many variables regarding people being able to return to work safely. Dr
Buckey stated he would strongly advocate for teachers being present in the buildings during the
remote phase. Ms Fox noted she felt there needed to be a balance.

Ms Gold noted there would be mixed feelings from parents regarding our vote but it is very
important that we as parents have a lot of power over how our children approach this school
year. Ms Gold stated building resiliency for our children maximizes outcomes. Ms Gold said
there is a need to provide positivity balanced with realism for our children. Ms Gold read a
passage about a need to be more like bamboo and bend with the storm. Ms Gold
acknowledged how hard remote is for families but noted the more buy in we have from families
the more successful the plan will be.

Ms Taylor noted her appreciation for Ms Gold’s bamboo analogy. Ms Taylor felt we needed to
vote to approve the plan. Ms Taylor noted she felt the plan was measured and thoughtful but
had a hurdle with remote learning for the youngest learners as she did not feel it was
manageable or effective. Ms Taylor asked that there be a commitment to look at the feasibility
of bringing the youngest learners back to in person learning right away. Ms Taylor noted she
understood the current situation would be stressful for students but that messaging could
change that for young resilient students.

Ms Fox asked if we are approving the recommendation sent to us by Dr Buckey because we
had not been sent the complete detailed plan. Dr Buckey replied we are approving the
conceptual framework that we are not going back to full hybrid but rather a phased in
approach. Ms Fox asked if a family decides they no longer feel safe in the hybrid model if they
would be allowed to transfer into remote learning at that point. Dr Bucky replied the need to
wait until the quarter or trimester end was one directional for remote to hybrid.
Ms Harris made a motion to accept a phase 1 recommendations from 8.31.20 - 9.14.20 with a
Phase 2 for remote reentry occurring from 9.14.20 to 10.2.20 and a phase 3 start on Monday
October 5, 2020 for in person reentry with a recommendation that there be consideration to
phase in early learners sooner than October 5th, 2020.

Ms Fox noted having sat in on teaching and learning meetings and read Dr Buckey’s replies to
all the emails she felt at all times Dr Buckey and the reentry committees have continually tried
to find ways to get students returned to in person learning as soon as possible. Ms Fox stated
she was not opposed to the language of the motion but wanted to clarify that this has been his
goal all along. Ms Gold noted she agreed with Ms Fox.

Ms Gold asked for a motion to accept the three phased approach to reentry in a full hybrid
situation with a recommendation for continued consideration in allowing early learners to phase
in before October 5th if possible.

Ms Taylor asked to clarify at what point does the plan come back to the school committee for
final approval. Ms Gold noted there would be reentry updates at all meetings moving
forward. Ms Taylor clarified that she was asking if the final plan would come back to the school
committee for a vote. Dr Buckey said no, tonight is the approval but that the process part of the
re-entry would be difficult if he needed to return for committee approval. Ms Fox noted it was
her understanding that tonight's vote was our final approval. Ms Taylor noted this is what she
is struggling with and if there are constraints of space and or money then the plan should come
back to the School Committee. Ms Taylor noted she is not clear on what the constraints are
and if there is anything the School Committee could do to mitigate them. Ms Gold stated she
felt as the plan was further developed if a point is reached that the plan comes back under the
purview of the school committee then she assumes it will be brought back to the committee at
that point. Mr Harris noted if a policy or funding request arise then it would come back to the
school committee. Ms Gold noted there will be policies that will come back to us through the
process. Dr Buckey noted there will be remote grading and remote attendance policies will be
needed. Ms Taylor stated she would like to see the early learners in school as soon as possible
and that remote learning is hard for families to manage. Ms Taylor wanted to know how young
learners would be actively engaged without it being frustrating and cumbersome during any
remote period. Ms Taylor noted she does not feel it is an effective use of young children's time
to independently log on and off of zoom. Ms Barron asked if there was a way the motion could
make clear that the plan for early learners needed to come back for committee approval. Ms
Taylor asked for a provision of K-3 learning modifications to come back to the committee for
approval. Ms Fox stated that what is being ask of us is to approve what Dr Buckey, the admin
team and all members of the oversight reentry committee recommended to us but that it
appears there are some members of the committee that are not comfortable approving the plan
as presented but prefer to change the plan. Ms Fox stated it needed to be decided if we were
making a motion to approve the presented plan or to not approve the recommendation but
rather change it. Ms Fox noted we either give Dr Buckey approval or he will need to go to the
state Friday and ask for an extension due to lack of approval. Dr Buckey replied yes. Ms Gold
restated the proposed motion. Ms Taylor replied her only hesitation is the remote learning piece
and the expectations for younger students. Dr Buckey stated he felt that is where we put trust in
our early childhood educators to determine the best plan for those students. Dr Buckey gave a
commitment to phase in early learners as able. Dr Buckey stated he did not feel if it was the will
of the committee to phase in early learners sooner that it would impede the committee
approving the proposed plan this evening. Ms Taylor agreed.
Ms Fox made a motion to approve the plan as presented by Dr Buckey. Ms Taylor stated she
felt the way Mr Harris stated the motion was better as it included a commitment to consider
returning early learners back sooner.

Ms Gold asked for a motion to accept the three phased approach to reentry in a full hybrid
situation with a recommendation for continued consideration in allowing early learners to phase
in before October 5th.

David Harris moved the motion.

Emily Barron seconded the motion.

Ms Gold noted that at Tower she saw young students engage, understand and learn remotely
last spring. Ms Gold noted that even in the public school we did see children learn. Ms Taylor
agreed that children are resilient and adaptable but that young learners can not manage it on
their own and that as students get older they can manage more therefore are less of a burden
on families. Ms Fox noted she was the only committee member who had a kindergartner last
year and has multiple early learners and that she watched her child learn how to read on zoom
with reading tutors. Ms Fox noted that it was not ideal and it was very hard to manage multiple
young children at home on zoom but the educators did what they were supposed to do and
they taught her child. Ms Barron noted Ms Fox stated her daughter learned to read in a small
reading group and it is very important we give teachers the support they need to be able to
teach differently, be creative and know they have support all the way to the top to try things like
smaller classes. Ms Gold agreed with Ms Barron regarding supporting teachers to be creative
and think outside of the box. Ms Taylor stated there are constraints the committee can help
mitigate because we oversee policy and budget.

       Sarah Gold             Yes
       Sarah Fox              Yes
       Meagan Taylor          Yes
       David Harris           Yes
       Emily Barron           Yes

       Motion Passes 5-0.

Ms Gold asked for a motion to extend public comment to the three people who currently have
their hands raised.

Meagan Taylor moved the motion

Emily Barron seconded the motion

Ms Taylor reminded everyone it is public comment not a question and answer.

       Sarah Gold             Yes
       Sarah Fox              Yes
       Meagan Taylor          Yes
       David Harris           Yes
       Emily Barron           Yes
       Motion Passes 5-0.

Public Comment

Patrick Noonan, 15 Beverly Ave. Mr Noonan asked Dr. Buckey how he could be confident
about transitioning later without guidelines from DESE, clear metric or a memorandum of
understanding with the collective bargaining unit. Mr Noonan noted all the safety concerns from
slide 3 are valid and none of them are going to change before October. Mr Noonan noted the
statewide MTA was pressuring for not returning to in person learning as well as other groups
saying it is not safe right now to return to school. Mr Noonan noted he is concerned there will
be no buy in from community at anytime for in person learning. Mr Noonan stated the
committee had heard from many parents asking for in person learning and noted some
neighboring districts that are choosing to send back early learners right away. Mr Noonan
commended Ms Taylor on her stance for in person learning, Mr Noonan stated that at the end
of the day we are choosing to not blaze ahead with in person learning for students right away
and asked why we would squander the five weeks before cold weather and flu season to not try
to get in person learning. Mr Noonan stated he was very disappointed and that three weeks are
not needed.

Charles Ngowe. Mr Ngowe noted he agrees with Ms Taylor and wants to know what the
scientific reasons for a three week delay are. Mr Ngowe asked if the private schools are having
in person learning why can't the public schools do the same. Mr Ngowe stated that what was
being voted on is a personal opinion and what parents want does not matter, only what Dr
Buckey wants matters.

Peter. Peter asked if someone could direct him where to get the information regarding the high
school schedule and what it entails. Dr Buckey will contact Peter offline.

Julie Gaunt. Ms Guant spoke up as a parent of older students. Ms Guant wanted to stress that
all students have challenges and if it is safe for K-3 then it should be safe for all students and
that all students have the same opportunities.

Sarah Gold adjourned the meeting at 10:29 pm.
