                             Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                           Monday January 23, 2020
                                       Marblehead High School Library



Members Present:                           Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Jennifer Schaeffner and Sarah Fox

Members Absent:                            David Harris

Also:                                      William, H. McAlduff Jr.-Interim Superintendent
                                           Daniel Bauer-High School Principal



I.      Initial Business and Public Involvement
        1. Call to Order
             Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:00pm.

        2.   Commendations
             Ms. Taylor thanked the High School Woodworking Teacher, Mr. Taylor for opening up his classroom
             on January 11th to the Boys and Girls Scouts to have a cut day in preparation for their upcoming
             Pinewood Derby.

        3.   Public Comment
             Ms. Jennifer Eaton spoke on behalf of the Specail Education Parent Advisory Council (SEPAC)
             regarding the 2020-2021 school year calendar. Ms. Eaton read a prepared statement. She thanked
             Superintendent McAlduff for the proposed changes. Ms. Eaton further shared her input stating that she
             felt it was important for special education students to attend school for as many full weeks as possible
             because they needed consistency to effectively engage in academics. Ms. Eaton also suggested that a
             calendar task force be created to implement policies for the best academic calendar going forward.

             Ms. Catherine Martin of 29 West Shore Drive and member of the Building Committee read a prepared
             statement. She shared her concerns regarding requests for look ahead schedules and design and
             development drawings she felt the consultants were not delivering. Ms. Martin shared her intention was
             to advocate for the best possible project and stated that the project would only be as good as the clients
             engagement with it. She further shared her concerns about miscommunications stemming from items
             brought up for discussion.

             Ms. Schaeffner asked that a record of both statements be part of the minutes taken.

             Mr. Jim Zisson of 2 Mound Rd. shared his input on the naming of the new elementary school. He
             shared that his favorite name was Elbridge Gerry due to its historical significance stating that Elbridge
             Gerry was born in Marblehead, a Vice President, Governor of Massachusetts, a Congressman, a State
             Representative and a signer of the Declaration of Independence. Mr. Zisson also mentioned Mr. Gerry
             advocated for the Bill of Rights prior to signing the Constitution sharing that without his persistence
             we would not have the first amendment and no freedom of speech or religion.


        4.   Student representative – Dan Howells
              This past week was mid-term week with the final day tomorrow
              The two competing acapella groups, the Jewel Tones and the Luminescence will compete in the
                 NE Voices and HCHSA Festivals over the next two weekends
              The Student Mentor Program for the incoming class of 2024 has begun.
              The DECA Club recently competed at a district wide competition where they nearly swept the
                 entire competition. The club will now move on to participating in the statewide competition.
II.    Consent Agenda and Action Items
       1. Minutes
          Ms. Schaeffner made a motion to approve the minutes from November 21, 2019. The motion was
          moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox. The motion carries, 4-0 all in favor.

III.   Superintendent Report
       1. MHS Program of Studies 2020-2021 – Proposed Changes
          Mr. Bauer gave a presentation on the 2020-2021 High School Program of Studies proposed changes.
          He thanked the school committee for having him and shared that the Program of Studies requires
          editing each year. He also stated that accuracy is critical so that the course selection process would be
          as efficient as possible. Mr. Bauer thanked his outstanding team for their hard work. He also
          mentioned that he had brought with him a Lead Teacher and Special Education Chairperson, Ms.
          Donnelly to answer any questions the committee may have. Mr. Bauer presented a PowerPoint to share
          some of the new courses that were added and the courses that would no longer be running. He also
          pointed out minor adjustments that were made to existing courses.

            Questions surrounding the add drop period, modifications within instruction, the new 9 th-12th grade
            Yearbook Course and a course focusing on financial literacy were all discussed.

            Ms. Gold made motion to approve the Marblehead High School Program of Studies 2020 proposed
            changes. The motion was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor. The motion carries, 4-0 all
            in favor

       2.   Update on Feedback Regarding Proposed 2020-2021 SY Calendars
            Superintendent McAlduff shared the feedback from the proposed 2020-2021 school year calendar. He
            thanked Ms. Eaton for her input on the school year calendar. Before moving forward, he clarified that
            neither of the drafts indicated early release days for Professional Development due to that needing to
            be more closely looked at. He also noted that both calendars had Good Friday falling on April 9 th and
            that Good Friday would instead be on April 2nd. He reminded the committee that Draft 1 mimicked the
            previous years calendar and that Draft 2 was a hybrid of the former calendars and some proposed
            adjustments. Superintendent McAlduff explained that the plan would be to vote on an approved
            calendar at the February 6th meeting. He further shared that he received 84 total responses indicating
            which draft one preferred or comments and suggestions about scheduling around holidays. He pointed
            out that the major differences in drafts related to 1) beginning school with two Professional
            Development Days instead of just one and 2) keeping the 180th student day as far away from June 30th
            as possible. Superintendent McAlduff also agreed with Ms. Eaton’s suggestion about setting up a task
            force to take a more comprehensive look at the school calendar.

            Ms. Fox requested that feedback be shared with the school committee. She also inquired if stop times
            could be staggered on early release days to allow for more time in between pick-ups for parents with
            students at multiple buildings.

            Ms. Taylor thanked the Superintendent for his work with involving the community and also agreed that
            the calendar process needed a more comprehensive review.

            Ms. Schaeffner inquired if a member of the church could be part of the calendar committee and if it
            could begin in the Spring so that the committee could meet with Superintendent Buckey in the Fall to
            begin the process early.

IV.    Finance Organizational Support
       1. Schedule of Bills
           Ms. Gold made a motion to approve all schedules of bills totaling $214,300.08. The motion was moved
           by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Schaeffner. The motion passes, 4-0 all in favor.
     Ms. Fox inquired about schedule #19011 in which three items from FY19 was paid to FY20 to which
     Superintendent McAlduff confirmed that the items were a follow through from a discussion had at the
     last meeting.

2.   FY21 Budget Goals and Calendar
     Superintendent McAlduff discussed the Budget Development Calendar that was revised on January
     21st. He mentioned that one of the only changes was in relation to finalizing a date for the Budget
     Public Hearing which was originally scheduled during a week he would be away, from March 19 th
     through March 23rd. Due to multiple conflicts with other committee members schedules during the
     month of March, the budget subcommittee would need to look more closely at the calendar to come up
     with a mutually agreeable date to hold the hearing. Superintendent McAlduff stated that the plan
     moving forward would be to hold a FY21 Budget Workshop with the Leadership Team on February
     12th as a follow-up to the February 6th meeting, which would be when the committee would receive
     their budget binders. It was noted that Ms. Taylor was working with the Finance Education Liaisons to
     hold meetings on February 24th and again on March 16th. It was also shared the meeting with Fincom
     was to be determined for Monday March 30th.

     Superintendent McAlduff shared the standout budget priorities that were developed through
     collaboration with the Leadership Team. The budget priorities shared consisted of:
     a) Meeting Contractual Obligations
     b) Reorganizing Central Administration Staff
     c) Managing Special Education Tuition and Transportation Services
     d) Providing Appropriate Funding for Curriculum and Student Support
     e) Accurately Budget for Facilities Maintenance

     A conversation surrounding the Student Opportunity Act (SOA) and Chapter 70 Funding took place.
     Superintendent McAlduff shared that he attended the Massachusetts Association of School
     Superintendents (MASS) mid-winter meeting earlier that day to hear The Commissioner explain the
     process. He mentioned that guidelines and forms would be released and that those districts who will
     receive 1.5 million or less will be required to fill out the two page short form.

3.   K and PK Tuition Recommendation for 2020-2021
     Superintendent McAlduff spoke about the 2020-2021 Preschool and Kindergarten Tuition Rates that
     the committee received in a memo from the Director of Finance, Ms. Cresta. He stated that the 2.5
     percent increase was reflective of the 2.5 percent COLA increase that the staff would receive.
     Superintendent McAlduff recommended working with DESE in the future to determine what additional
      Chapter 70 funding would be available if Marblehead introduced a zero cost full day kindergarten
      program since the funding directly relates to student enrollment.

     Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the 2020-2021 school year tuition rates at $3,604 for Full Day
     Kindergarten, $4,449 for Full Day Preschool and $2,251 for Half Day Preschool. The motion was
     moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Schaeffner. The motion carries, 4-0 all in favor. Ms. Fox
     stated that charging a tuition does not provide equal opportunity for every family to which Ms. Gold
     agreed that the tuition should be further looked at in the future.

4.   Spring 2020 Town Meeting Warrant Articles
     Superintendent McAlduff shared the four warrant articles that would be voted on at the Annual
     Town Meeting that directly impacted the schools. The articles named were:
     a) Departmental Revolving Funds
     b) Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
     c) Transfer Funds to the Special Education Stabilization Fund
     d) Medicaid Reimbursement Money
     He further explained that no action needed to be taken on warrants with the exception of the annual
     letter regarding spending limits on the Special Education Revolving Fund which directly related to the
     Departmental Revolving Funds warrant. It was stated that the letter would request a maximum
     spending amount of $900k which was a decrease from last year.
          Superintendent McAlduff stated that an item for supplemental appropriations for the school
          department was also being held as a placeholder if needed and that the committee would need to vote
          on that. After a discussion, it was clarified that the placeholder was implemented as a follow-up to last
          year’s budget process and it was decided that the placeholder would provide flexibility for both
          override or debt exclusion.

          Ms. Gold made a motion to submit to the Board of Selectmen a FY21 Annual Town Meeting warrant
          article for the purpose of securing a Supplemental Appropriation for the Schools, if necessary and that
          the wording for such article be as presented. The motion was moved by Ms. Schaeffner and seconded
          by Ms. Taylor. The motion carries, 4-0 all in favor.

V.   School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
     1. Superintendent Contract
        Ms. Gold shared that the discussion of the Superintendent Contract would be put on hold as it would
        be discussed later that same evening in executive session.

     2.   Building Project Update
          Ms. Fox provided the building committee update in the absence of Mr. Harris. She stated that she does
          not have much of an update as she felt that she did not have as up to date information as Mr. Harris
          would. Ms. Fox shared that there was a joint meeting last week to which the school committee already
          had the information from. She shared that the committee was scheduled to meet with the zoning board
          on Tuesday and the planning board on Wednesday. Ms. Fox also noted that Ms. Schaeffner shared an
          example of a monthly report that had been provided to school committee members and town officials
          during the building of the now Veterans Middle School and mentioned that she felt the report
          represented what the building committee should be receiving.

          Ms. Schaeffner stated that the report would help the members and school committee more closely track
          what is going on with the building project so that they are better able to answer questions about the
          project. She stated her concerns related to getting answers to detailed questions and specifically noted
          the permitting and approval process. Ms. Schaeffner mentioned that she would share the reporting
          document with the school and building committees. She also stated that it may be helpful to have a
          former OPM attend and upcoming building committee meeting.

          Ms. Gold informed the committee that she had not put the naming process on the agenda and would
          like the data to be made available to the public before moving forward with deliberation on a final
          name. Although no formal vote was taken, it was decided after a discussion that a finalist list should be
          shared with the community prior to the final vote and that public comment should be allowed before
          confirming the name.

          Ms. Schaeffner asked how the committee should address Ms. Martin’s concerns to which Ms. Gold
          explained that there would be many avenues for that whether it be through email chains or public
          comment. Ms. Schaeffner also requested that a recent email she received be added to the meeting
          record.

     3.   Liaison Updates
          Ms. Gold explained that the plan moving forward would be to provide regular updates on the
          subcommittees at the first Thursday meeting of the month and the Liaisons at the second Thursday
          meeting of the month. Eveleth and Coffin Liaisons Ms. Fox and Ms. Schaeffner shared that both
          schools had yet to meet. Ms. Schaeffner shared that Glover met for the first time in December and that
          Principal Ota went through the format for the school improvement plan. She also shared that there was
          another meeting scheduled for earlier that day but that there was no quorum so the members spoke
          casually and adjourned. Ms. Taylor explained that Village meets every month on the first Thursday of
          the month. They go through each grade level and updates from the previous month with a focus on the
          school improvement plan. Ms. Fox shared that the Veterans Middles Schools meets on Thursday
          afternoons. She informed the committee that the last discussion involved the need for an additional
              teacher and a new pilot program in which students would lead parent conferences to work together to
              set goals. Ms. Gold shared that the High School meets on Thursday afternoons once a month and that
              the school improvement plan was discussed in January, the handbook has been looked over and MCAS
              discussed. Ms. Taylor mentioned that there would be a METCO meeting on February 11th. She also
              commended Ms. Kaplowitch, the PCO Central Council President for her collaboration with Monique,
              the METCO PCO. Ms. Gold shared that SEPAC would be holding a Spring conference on March 21st
              where teachers, parent and students will all be involved. It was shared that they are also already
              preparing for their unsung heroes event. Additionally, SEPAC is looking at the online bullying form
              and making it more user friendly. Ms. Taylor commented on the wonderful experience the Unsung
              Heroes event was.

              Ms. Fox made a motion to move “New Business” and “Closing Business” prior to Executive Session.
              Ms. Gold moved the motion and it was seconded by Ms. Taylor. The motion passes, 4-0 all in favor.

VI.      Closing Business
         1. New Business
             Ms. Fox inquired when the Assistant Superintendent Search may begin. Superintendent McAlduff
             mentioned getting information to the school committee regarding a Search Advisory Council (SAC)
             sometime by the end of February to begin the process.

              Ms. Fox also inquired about an earlier presentation from Smart Roots and where the committee was
              with that. Ms. Gold confirmed that she already had it in her notes to follow up with Smart Roots.

              Ms. Schaeffner shared that the Marblehead Police Department would be holding an eight week Citizen
              Police Academy Course sometime in April. The course was designed to help citizens to better
              understand law enforcement. Ms. Schaeffner read a prepared statement about the course.

VII.     Executive Session
         Ms. Gold made a motion to meet in Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws: Chapter
         30A, section 21 (a) (2): to conduct a strategy session in preparation for negotiations with nonunion
         personnel. Specifically as it relates to Dr. John Buckey and only to return to open session in order to
         adjourn.

          The motion was moved by Ms. Schaeffner and seconded by Ms. Fox. A roll call vote was taken.
          Ms. Schaeffner-Yes
          Ms. Fox-Yes
          Ms. Taylor-Yes
          Ms. Gold-Yes

          Ms. Gold noted that the Executive Session opened at 9:29 and that a five minute break would be taken.


                                                                                           Respectfully Submitted
                                                                                           Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                                           Marblehead School Committee




Approved March 24, 2020
