                             Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                                 March 24, 2020
                                       Zoom Web Conference 12:00 PM
                               Zoom Conference Call-Meeting ID: 260 775 814
                                          https://zoom.us/j/260775814

Members Present:                          Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Jennifer Schaeffner
                                          David Harris and Sarah Fox

Also:                                     William, H. McAlduff Jr.-Interim Superintendent
                                          Michelle Cresta-Director of Finance


I.      Initial Business and Public Involvement
        1. Call to Order
             Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 12:02pm
        2. Commendations
             Ms. Schaeffner mentioned that she felt everyone qualified for a commendation.
             Ms. Gold stated she was thankful for the administration and for the way the staff has stepped up to the
             plate for the students during the time of closure.
        3. Public Comment
             Public comment was taken out of order to allow Student Representative, Dan Howells to
             speak first.

             Ms. Erin Noonan thanked Superintendent McAlduff for his leadership and stated how wonderful
             principals have been during the closure. Ms. Noonan shared that it may be best to incorporate more
             hard copy materials for the lower level grades if the closure was extended sharing that doing all of the
             learning online was a lot for her children to experience.

        4.   Student representative – Dan Howells
              Mr. Howells shared that the progression of the Corona Virus and how it moved closer to
                 Marblehead was discussed in his History Class. The discussion involved how to the virus was
                 impacting school and everyday life.
              Mr. Howells commended the teachers for doing a great job keeping students engaged and
                 involved. It was shared that Zoom and Google classroom was being used to make sure students
                 were not falling behind. Teachers were also readily available during office hours to answer
                 questions regarding assignments.
              It was mentioned that school and community events were being canceled or postponed for the
                 safety of students and faculty.

                 Ms. Fox asked Mr. Howells if “he felt that he was able to stay top of school and felt that he had all
                 of the tools he needed to complete assignments?” Mr. Howells confirmed that the High School
                 was already moving towards online technology for learning and that the teachers were doing a
                 great job of providing work and timelines to complete it by.

                 Ms. Gold inquired how Mr. Howells younger sister was handling learning from home to which
                 Mr. Howells shared that she was also utilizing Google Classroom and setting up times to speak
                 with her teachers at the Middle School when she needed clarification on an assignment.

II.     Consent Agenda and Action Items
        1. Minutes
           Ms. Gold asked if any of the committee members had any questions or clarifications regarding the
           minutes.

             Ms. Schaeffner shared that she had asked that a copy of the two public comment statements from the
             meeting on January 23rd be included in the minutes and wanted to make sure they would be included
           when the documents were posted to the website. The Superintendent’s Assistant, Ms. Dimier
           confirmed that she had the documents and that they would be included with the website posting.

           Ms. Schaeffner also mentioned following up with Ms. Dimier to watch the recording from January 23rd
           to clarify which email referenced in the minutes Ms. Schaeffner was requesting be made part of the
           record.

           Ms. Gold confirmed with Ms. Schaeffner that she was comfortable moving forward with the vote to
           approve the minutes to which Schaeffner confirmed she was.

           Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the meeting minutes from January 23, 2020 as well as January 31,
           2020. The motion was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Schaeffner. A roll call vote was taken.

           Ms. Gold-yes
           Ms. Fox-yes
           Ms. Schaeffner-yes
           Mr. Harris-not present
           Ms. Taylor-yes

           The motion carries, 4-0.

III.   Superintendent Report
       1. School Closure Update
          Superintendent McAlduff provided an update on the recent school closure sharing that since school
          had closed on March 13th that there had been a home learning plan implemented since Tuesday March
          17th, technology devices had been signed out to families on Wednesday March 18 th and that the last full
          day for staff was Thursday March 19th. He shared that all staff would begin working remotely and that
          custodians had already started a deep clean of each building. He further shared that one custodian each
          would be assigned to a building to perform daily safety building checks in the morning and afternoons.

           It was also mentioned that the first positive case of Corona Virus in Marblehead had been announced
           and that all playgrounds and basketball courts would be closed for public use until further notice.
           Superintendent McAlduff also noted that per Governor Baker’s orders as of March 23rd all non-
           essential business would close and a Stay at Home Advisory should be followed. He informed the
           committee that some personnel from the business office would be considered “essential” for the
           purposes of needing to pay bills and continuing to pay staff. It was explained that the days they worked
           would be staggered to limit the number of staff in the building and that rooms and high touch surfaces
           would be disinfected regularly.

           Superintendent McAlduff shared that he has asked the Director of Student Services to work with a task
           force to create a longer term learning plan in anticipation for longer school closure. A discussion
           surrounding the use of technology for home learning took place. Concerns regarding consistency
           across all grades and the grading structure were mentioned. It was noted that the Massachusetts
           Superintendent’s and other educational leaders were requesting remote learning guidance from the
           state and the commissioner should the closure be extended.

           A brief conversation pertaining to budget implications occurred to which Superintendent McAlduff
           shared that there would not be many associated with the current closure period but that those things
           could change if the closure was extended. He further clarified that they would be staying informed
           about relief funding as things progressed.

           Ms. Gold noted that Mr. Harris joined the meeting at 12:27pm.

IV.    Finance Organizational Support
       1. Schedule of Bills
     Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $870,734.02. The motion was moved
     by Ms. Schaeffner and seconded by Ms. Taylor. A roll call vote was taken:

     Ms. Gold-yes
     Ms. Taylor-yes
     Ms. Fox-yes
     Mr. Harris-yes
     Ms. Schaeffner-yes
     The motion carries, 5-0 all in favor.

     a.   Discussion on Signing the Schedule of Bills
          This item was taken out of order and the Director of Finance, Ms. Cresta provided her update on
          the monthly financial reporting first.

          A discussion regarding the process for signing the schedule of bills during the school closure took
          place. Superintendent McAlduff shared that the recommendation to appoint a designated
          committee member would be agreed upon on a temporary basis and that the schedules would be
          added to the Dropbox for all committee members to review prior to voting the approval of such
          schedules. He further shared that the town and school policies for approving the payment of bills
          had been included in the packet shared with the committee.

          Although no formal vote was taken, committee members agreed that including the invoices in the
          Dropbox with the schedules would make the voting process a bit smoother. Ms. Cresta confirmed
          that the invoices could be included with the schedules moving forward.

          Ms. Gold made a motion to name Sarah Gold as primary and Sarah Fox as secondary to be
          designated to approve all bills, drafts, orders and payrolls not otherwise presented for approval at a
          posted meeting to the full committee; provided that if such approval takes place, a record of such
          approval shall be made available to the committee at the first meeting following such approval and
          that said record of approval be placed on the next meeting as an agenda item; further that Sarah
          Fox be designated as the “back-up” member if necessary.

          The motion was moved by Ms. Schaeffner and seconded by Mr. Harris. A roll call vote was taken:
          Ms. Gold-yes
          Ms. Taylor-yes
          Ms. Fox-yes
          Ms. Schaeffner-yes
          Mr. Harris-

          The motion carries, 5-0 all in favor.

2.   FY20 Monthly Financial Report
     The Director of Finance, Ms. Cresta gave a monthly update on the year to date FY20 budget status
     report. She reported that no additional costs associated with the school closure needed to be taken into
     consideration thus far. She shared that the District had spent about 59% of their operating budget and
     noted the accounts where the District would continue to see short-falls such as in the Special Education
     Out of District Tuition and transportation costs and the utilities budget. She also shared that there could
     be a short-fall of around $20k related to substitute costs if the District reopened during the second
     week of April. Ms. Cresta explained that certain accounts would see a surplus and that some of those
     accounts could be used to offset deficits in other areas. She noted that the final page of the memo she
     shared with the School Committee projected the expected deficits and the accounts that were planning
     on being used to offset them. It was reported that a projected surplus of $1,642 was to be expected. The
     surplus of $525,330 minus an expected shortfall of $523,688 to equal $1,642.
     A brief conversation regarding receiving tuition-in payments and paying tuition out payments to other
     districts occurred. Ms. Cresta confirmed with Ms. Schaeffner that this was occurring through the
     period of closure provided students have fewer than 21 absences.

3.   FY21 Capital – Final
     Superintendent McAlduff discussed the memo he shared with the school committee which
     incorporated the items being recommended for inclusion in the School Committee’s FY21 Capital
     Plan. He shared that the estimates had been adjusted to reflect lower estimates than previously
     anticipated for the Capital Needs Assessment form a firm called On-site Insight. He also noted that
     once approved the plan would be forwarded to the Town Administrator and Finance Committee for
     further approval.

     Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the FY21 Capital Plan as presented, and instruct the
     Superintendent to forward the approved plan to the Town Administrator and Finance Committee.
     The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox. A roll call vote was taken.

     Ms. Gold-yes
     Ms. Taylor-yes
     Ms. Fox-yes
     Mr. Harris-yes
     Ms. Schaeffner-yes

     The motion carries, 5-0 all in favor

4.   FY21 Draft Budget
     a. PCO Financial Support
        This item was taken out of order and Superintendent McAlduff gave an update on the FY21Draft
        Budget timeline first.

          Superintendent McAlduff shared a slide showing the 2018-2019 financial support that has come
          from the PCO’s over the last two years and shared that the purpose of sharing the slides was in
          relation to underscoring the fact that the appropriations budget was not the total amount of money
          it takes to operate the District. He shared that much of the raised funds went to purchasing
          technology and supplies. He credited and thanked the parents of the community for the close to
          $300k of funds that were raised in previous years.

     b.   Special Education – Out-of-District Tuition
          Superintendent McAlduff shared that there were three Special Education adjustments that had
          been made to the budget tracking sheet since the March 5 th meeting. 1) An O.O.D, out of district
          student would be returning to the High School for the 2020-2021SY reflecting a savings of $57k
          2) A Kindergarten Teacher who had been on leave would not returning and hiring a replacement
          would allow for a $30k savings in salary 3) The District Special Education transportation plan had
          been adjusted to reflect a savings of $45k down from the projected $117k.

          Superintendent McAlduff shared that lease purchasing two minivans to transport in town Special
          Education Students that required transportation within their IEP plans would provide a significant
          savings.

          A conversation regarding final budget numbers to present to the Town took place and it was
          mentioned that another budget subcommittee meeting should be scheduled to go over the newest
          tracking adjustments.

     c.   Adjustments Since Last Presentation
          This was shared as part of the Special Education update.

     d.   Timeline Update
                   Superintendent McAlduff shared that no final decision had been made at the town level as to
                   whether or not the Town Meeting would be held on May 4 th. He further shared that the Town was
                   running behind and that the School Committee would not be meeting with the Finance Committee
                   on March 30th as originally planned. It was suggested that the committee plan on scheduling their
                   Budget Public Hearing virtually so there could be some flexibility to meet with the Finance
                   Committee once they were ready to do so.

      V. School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
         1. Building Project Update
            Mr. Harris shared that he had forwarded an email he had received from Leftfield providing an update
            of where the school building project currently was. He read highlighted points from the email received
            earlier that same day from Gilbane informing the committee of the additional strategies that have been
            put in place to ensure that the project continues to move forward. He noted that social distancing
            measures would need to be met, the number of individuals in small spaces would be limited and breaks
            would be staggered on site to limit the number of people together.

              Mr. Harris shared that a Building Committee meeting was scheduled for Thursday via Zoom and that
              the monthly report should be coming within about a week. He also confirmed that both the demolition
              and abatement permits should be in hand and that there should be no concerns regarding delays due to
              closure in those areas.

              Ms. Schaeffner inquired whether or not there could be delays in the delivery of materials due to the
              Corona Virus. Mr. Harris confirmed that one of the RTA’s , Recommendations to Award that was
              awarded to a company for the steel they would be using for the new building would be not be coming
              from China and that since it was US steel, no delay should be expected.

              Mr. Harris shared that Gilbane would provide updates at the Thursday meeting and that once the Bell
              School buildings were torn down, more detailed reports would follow.

VI.       Closing Business
          1. New Business
              A conversation regarding the logistics surrounding the Assistant Superintendent Search timeline and
              the transition plan for the incoming Superintendent Dr. John Buckey took place. It was shared that the
              timeline for hiring would be adjusted and that meetings would be held virtually as much as possible. It
              was mentioned that the originally scheduled days Dr. Buckey was expected to be in District would be
              rescheduled.

              Ms. Schaeffner reminded the committee that there would most likely need to be a vote made regarding
              April vacation to which it was noted that the Education Association would need to be involved in that
              decision.

              Ms. Gold asked the committee if anyone would like to make a motion to allow for public comment to
              which Ms. Fox agreed and Ms. Schaeffner seconded the motion. A roll call vote was taken.

              Ms. Gold-yes
              Ms. Taylor-yes
              Mr. Harris-yes
              Ms. Fox-yes
              Ms. Schaeffner-yes

              The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

              Ms. Catherine Martin of 29 Westshore Drive thanked the task force for all of their hard work with
              remote learning during a tough time. Ms. Martin inquired if there would be a goal date in mind to share
              with the community information regarding remote learning during an extended closure. She also
              inquired about an interface where the consolidation of online learning platforms could be more easily
              accessible from a central location so that there were not as many logins needed to access curriculum.

              Superintendent McAlduff confirmed that there was no goal date yet and that the Leadership Team
              would be meeting tomorrow to discuss the logistics surrounding the group assigned to work on the
              remote learning plan. He also explained that the District had already heard feedback from parents
              regarding the number of logins associated with completing assignments and that the idea would be to
              develop a system similar to “one stop shopping” to create consistency, especially at the Kindergarten
              through third grade levels.

         2.   Adjournment
              Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 2:56pm.

                                                                                         Respectfully Submitted
                                                                                         Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                                         Marblehead School Committee

Approved June 4, 2020
