Policy Subcommittee Meeting - 10/9/2020
Front Conference Room
District Office, 9 Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945

Members present - Sarah Gold, Emily Barron, and John Buckey

Call to order: 9:05 am

  I.    Meeting Minutes from 9/18/2020 were not available to be voted and will be voted at the
        next meeting.

  II.   Policy EBFA- Face Mask
            A. Parents of students have been inquiring if disposable face masks are ok for
               students to wear in school. It has been confirmed by the Head Nurse - Deana
               Mcmann that they are ok.
            B. Dr. Buckey will address disposable masks in his weekly update.

 III.   Policy IHBG - Homeschooling
            1. Nan Murphy presented the Subcommittee with a presentation on the current
                MPS homeschooling request process and gave proposed changes to the
                process. Ms. Murphy’s presentation is attached to the minutes for reference.
                   - Homeschooling form- The current form on the MHD school website
                       provides limited information.
                   -    Ms. Murphy suggested expanding the assessment portfolio, provide
                       space for the curriculum being used, and creating space for each subject
                       to provide details on the curriculum.
                   -    She suggested offering families the option to take MCAS, and creating
                       resources for families.
                   - Ms. Murphy also suggested adding a date for the assessment portfolio to
                       be submitted and a follow up date.
                   - There is no information about IEPs and Special Education services on the
                       form. Special Ed and General Ed students follow the same application
                       process and IEPs are still active. Eric Oxford’s statement was read
                       regarding Special Education and Out of District students-

Pretty straightforward on my end: if parent of an OOD student wants to be homeschooled, the
parent simply follows the same process to request homeschool permission from district for a
student enrolled in MPS. Once that request is approved, we terminate the child’s enrollment at
the OOD school.

The IEP stays active an intact...including the placement, as this is the child’s “stay put” right.
Homeschool = private school as far as the state is concerned. So, if the parents were to turn
around and say that they want to re-enroll the student, we’d call a reconvene meeting and
determine the appropriate next steps in terms of placement, services, etc.
It’s no different than if a parent places a child in a private school on their own. We follow our
same SPED protocols in terms of annual review meetings, etc.

We actually have one OOD child whose parent recently was approved to be homeschooled.

Let me know if you need anything else or have any questions for me. Thanks!



                   - Ms. Murphy presented Lowell Public School as an example of a district
                     that has a comprehensive online form.
                  - She suggested that MHD school district should create a database of
                     homeschooled students to keep track of students.
           2. Dr. Buckey asked Ms. Murphy if the Homeschooling request process is
              manageable. Ms. Murphy stated that this year there are a lot of applications.
              She suggested a resource page on the website for families to find links to
              homeschooling programs and information.

               Ms. Gold asked Ms. Murphy in the end what should her responsibility be in
               guiding families in the Homeschooling application process? Ms. Murphy stated
               that currently, MHD is going above and beyond in regards to helping families
               because of the pandemic. In a typical year, an updated online application will
               make the process easier.

               Ms. Gold asked what the next steps should be and if the policy should be put on
               the October 29th School Committee agenda. Dr. Buckey asked if there are any
               language changes or adjustments in procedures needed. Ms. Gold stated that
               Dr. Buckey should make sure the Policy aligns with IHGB-R and the first reading
               of the policy can be on October 29th.

               Ms. Gold asked if there are any changes needed to the language describing
               “parents competence” law. Mr. Buckey asked Ms. Murphy to look at what other
               districts do in regards to parent competence. Ms. Gold asked if parents should
               submit a resume to show competence. Mr. Buckey suggested presenting a High
               School diploma or associate's degrees. Ms. Barron stated a High School
               diploma may be better because a parent may not have an up to date resume.
               The parent competence section will be revisited.

IV.   Ms. Barron presented information on Policy 21 the MASC’s online Policy hosting service.
Ms. Gold and Ms. Barron asked Dr. Buckey to pursue the Policy 21 program.

Adjourned at 10:13 am
Respectfully Submitted
Emily Barron
