                           Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                        Thursday February 6, 2020
                                     Marblehead High School Library

Members Present:                       Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Jennifer Schaeffner, Sarah Fox and
                                       David Harris

Also:                                  William, H. McAlduff Jr.-Interim Superintendent
                                       Daniel Bauer-High School Principal

I. Initial Business and Public Involvement
   1. Call to Order
      Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:01pm
   2. Commendations
      Superintendent McAlduff mentioned receiving an email from Music Teacher, Ms. Frigon
      recognizing students’ achievements in the Scholastic Art Awards. He noted that the art that is
      submitted comes from across the state and that the recognition reflected the fine work of the students
      and department staff. After mentioning the Gold, Silver and honorable mention awards,
      Superintendent McAlduff noted that the email with the list of student names would be posted on the
      school committee website.

     It was also shared that Massachusetts Music Educators Association’s Northeastern District Jr.
     Festival would take place on Saturday March 28th at the Galvin Middle School in Wakefield and that
     a few Middle School students would be participating in the Girls Chorus and a High School student
     would participate in the orchestra performance. It was also noted that High School Students made
     the Bridgewater State University High School Honor Band Ensemble which was currently taking
     place that same evening.

     Ms. Frigon’s email announced that two band students had made it to the final round of Marblehead’s
     Got Talent and that the Village School 3rd graders had recently performed their Winter Musical at the
     High School.

     Superintendent McAlduff explained that the Massachusetts Art Education Association’s Youth Art
     Month would be celebrated in March and that artwork from students grades k-12 would be displayed
     in the Massachusetts Transportation Building in Boston. A list of names of students from grades k-6
     who were selected by the Visual Arts Teachers was read aloud. The Superintendent thanked Ms.
     Frigon and congratulated the students and staff.

     Ms. Fox thanked Principals, Sean Satterfield and Donna Zaeske for relocating students from the
     Coffin School to the Eveleth School last Friday during an unexpected morning closure at the Coffin
     School. She also thanked head Custodian, Glenn of the Veterans School for the facilities
     walkthrough the week prior, stating that he takes lots of pride in the building and that is showed.

  3. Public Comment
     None

  4. Student representative – Dan Howells
     Yesterday was another ALICE drill. It was a decision drill with all options available to the
        students
       Marblehead High School earned the College Board AP Computer Science Female Diversity
        Award
       Tuesday February 4th was a voter pre-registration drive for students ages 16-18 years old
       The Swim Team recently won their 15th consecutive NEC title
       The final round of Marblehead’s Got Talent is scheduled for February 7th at the Boston Yacht
        Club and will be featuring 8 student acts
       The Junior Class Auction will take place on March 27 at the Salem Waterfront Hotel

II. Consent Agenda and Action Items
    1. Minutes-12/12/19
       Ms. Gold asked if anyone had any comments about the December 12th minutes to which Ms.
       Schaeffner shared that she had emailed the Superintendent’s Assistant a few edits regarding some
       typos and clarification regarding a specific meeting discussing the building project. It was also
       shared that the first Planning Board Review was scheduled for January 14th, instead of the
       December 14th date referenced in the minutes. Ms. Gold made a motion to approve minutes the
       from the December 12th meeting pending the additions and clarifications that Ms. Schaeffner
       mentioned. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Schaeffner. The motion
       passes 5-0.

III. Past School Building Committee Chairs – Presentation
     Ms. Gold noted that the presentation from a former school Building Committee Chair was added to
     the agenda as a placeholder and that the presentation would not be taking place that evening.

IV. Superintendent Report
    1. Approval of MHS Overnight and Out-of-State Trips
       Superintendent McAlduff introduced High School Principal, Daniel Bauer to provide an overview
       of each of the overnight and out of state field trips that the committee would be voting on to
       approve.

        Mr. Bauer noted that he had Senior Class Advisor Bethann Jones who coordinates the Senior
        Rafting Trip and Holly Grose who coordinates the Spanish Exchange Trip present for questions.

        a. All State DECA Trip (Out of Order, this discussion item became item c.)
           The DECA All State Trip to Boston will take place on February 27th through the 29th. It is a
           newly formed organization at the High School in its third year with 37 members. The event
           will be held at Marriott Copley and The Convention Center in downtown Boston. Twenty
           three (23) Representatives have qualified.

        b. Senior Rafting Trip
           The rafting trip has been taking place for over 20 years and is scheduled for June 2nd and 3rd in
           Millinocket ME with over 100 students participating.

        c. Spain Exchange Trip
           The Spain Exchange Trip is scheduled for next April 2021 from the 16th through the 26th in
           Zaragoza Spain. The trip is offered to rising Juniors and Seniors in the CP1 and Honors
           classes. The cost per students would be $2,300 including air travel, accommodations and
           insurance. It was also shared that the Spanish Exchange Students would visit Marblehead the
           following Fall.

        d. Symphony Hall Trip
           The All State Massachusetts Music Education Association’s Festival and Conference is
           scheduled for March 5th through the 7th at the Seaport Hotel & World Trade Center and The
       Renaissance Boston Waterfront Hotel. Five students were accepted in the chorus and Music
       Teachers, Mr. Scoglio, Mr. Goddu and Ms. Frias would all be in attendance.

       After the overview, High School Spanish Teacher Ms. Grose answered a series of questions
       regarding the Spanish Exchange Trip. The items discussed pertained to the numbers of
       chaperones that would be assigned, hosting parameters and qualifications and additional
       information regarding the trip insurance.

      Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the Senior Class Rafting Trip to Millinocket, ME
      scheduled for June 2nd and June 3rd, 2020. The Motion was moved by Mr. Harris and seconded
      by Ms. Taylor. The motion pass, 5-0 all in favor.

      Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the proposed Spain Exchange Trip to Zaragoza Spain
      scheduled for April 16-26, 2021, with the understanding that Mr. Bauer would provide the
      School Committee with the final details in the Fall of 2020. The motion is moved by Ms.
      Taylor and seconded by Mr. Harris. The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

      Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the MMEA All-State Music Festival and Conference Trip
      to Boston, MA scheduled for March 5-7, 2020. The motion is moved by Ms. Taylor and
      seconded by Mr. Harris. The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

      Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the DECA All-State Trip to Boston, MA scheduled for
      February 27-29, 2020. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Mr. Harris. The
      motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

      Mr. Bauer added an additional commendation for the Math Team sharing that they had won
      their meet today and remain undefeated. He further shared that three of their Mathletes have
      been asked to participate in a competition at Penn State.

2. Vote on the Proposed 2020-2021 SY Calendars
   Superintendent McAlduff presented the school committee with his recommended proposed
   2020-2021SY calendar sharing that the calendar is a hybrid of the original drafts 1 and 2
   presented back on January 9th and that all parent, staff and school committee feedback was
   considered. He further explained the feedback concerns, the differences between the
   recommended calendar and the original drafts, clarified the religious holidays and noted the final
   180th day for students.

    Per the Unit A Collective Bargaining Agreement, in order for the Friday before Labor Day to be
    an early Release Day and not a full day off, Superintendent McAlduff also shared that The
    Marblehead Education Association would be polling their members to see if they would vote to
    approve a one year waiver of the collective bargaining agreement language that states, “The work
    year for teachers shall start no earlier than the Monday before Labor Day, provided, however, if
    the work year is scheduled to start before Labor Day, the Friday preceding Labor Day shall not be
    a work day.”

   A discussion pertaining to concerns about the consistency surrounding the school calendar took
   place and although no formal vote was taken, it was agreed that it could be beneficial to create a
   comprehensive committee to look more closely at the calendar moving forward.

    Ms. Gold made a motion that the School Committee approves the 2020-2021 school year
    calendars as recommended by the Interim Superintendent with the understanding that the
    Committee will have to reconsider the vote should the MEA vote not to waive the no school
    Friday prior to Labor Day CBA language for the 2020-2021 school year. The motion was moved
       by Mr. Harris and seconded by Ms. Taylor. The motion carries, 5-0 all in favor.

V. Finance Organizational Support
   1. Schedule of Bills
      Ms. Schaeffner commented before the vote that she would be abstaining due to her being
       reimbursed for the meals that were provided during the Superintendent Search. Ms. Gold made a
       motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $726,184.38. The motion was moved by Ms.
       Taylor and seconded by Mr. Harris. The motion passes, 4-0 with Ms. Schaeffner abstaining.

   2. Introduction to FY21 Draft Budget & Distribution of Budget Notebooks
     Superintendent McAlduff explained that he would provide an introduction to the FY21 Draft
     Budget via PowerPoint and would then introduce the Director of Finance, Ms. Cresta to handout
     budget notebooks to walk the committee through the layout. He also stated that tonight would
     provide a good opportunity to look at the budget calendar and make revisions to allow for a solid
     plan for next two months.

     The Powerpoint presented showed the FY21 Preliminary Budget, the FY20 Final Budget and
     accounted for contractual obligations leaving an estimated gap in funding of about $350k. The
     Superintendent outlined the next steps in the budget process highlighting certain dates in which the
     Budget Workshop with the Leadership Team would take place, the dates of the Public Hearing, the
     Fincom Meeting and the date to make the final budget vote. He clarified that the Budget Workshop
     would be scheduled for Wednesday the 12th and not the 13th as the PowerPoint referenced.

     The dates outlined included:
     Three more School Committee Meeting through mid-March.
     February 26th, March 5th and March 16th and/or the 17th.
     The Public Hearing on March 23rd
     The Fincom Meeting on March 30th
     Final Vote on April 2nd.

     The Superintendent stated that there would be many more meetings to provide opportunities to
     further discuss the budget to look more closely at areas of cost savings.

     A conversation regarding vacation scheduling conflicts was discussed and it was decided that no
     decision regarding set dates needed to be made that evening and that it could be revisited. It was
     decided that the meeting on February 26th would be budget focused and that the hearing date should
     stay scheduled on the 23rd of March. Ms. Taylor noted that there would be a meeting with Fincom
     the following Thursday and Superintendent McAlduff stated that he would revise the budget
     calendar based on what the school committee decides.

     Ms. Cresta presented the Budget Notebooks to the School Committee walking the committee
     through the layout. She shared that the notebook contains 14 tabs all together and shared a summary
     of each line item in the opening section. She stated that the notebook includes all current accounts
     and that the remaining tabs displayed each schools individual budget and staffing per position. Ms.
     Cresta reminded the committee that these notebooks would be brought to each budget related
     meeting moving forward. She also mentioned that the cafeteria employees have not yet been
     included and would be. She further explained that the final two tabs would be reserved for
     revolving grants and capital requests that they would discuss in future meetings.

     The committee thanked Ms. Cresta for the level of detail in reporting and Ms. Schaeffner and Mr.
     Harris asked Michelle to confirm with the town about the Capital Facilities Assessment and
     Vehicles.

VI. School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
    1. Town Report Submission
       Ms. Gold shared that the Town Report Submission would be put on hold and on a future agenda.
    2. Superintendent Contract
       Ms. Gold shared that Dr. John Buckey recently signed his contract to become the new
       Superintendent of Marblehead Public Schools. Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the
       Superintendent Contract with Dr. John Buckey. The motion was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded
       by Ms. Schaeffner. The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor. Ms. Schaeffner asked if Superintendent
       McAlduff could update the committee about the days that Dr. Buckey would be in district.

    3. Building Project Update
       Mr. Harris shared that the award for abatement and demolition had come in $46k under budget
        and that there would be some prequalification packages related to electrical, plumbing water
        proofing and elevators. ZBA had also approved 107 parking spaces and the next Planning Board
        Meeting would be Tuesday the 11th at 7:30pm.It was shared that Mr. Saindon was in the district
        earlier that day meeting with elementary school principals, Ms. Zaeske and Mr. Satterfield to
        discuss traffic flow at the new elementary school. It was also shared that National Grid was on
        site cutting off the gas lines. Mr. Harris shared that the next steps would be for Gilbane to take
        control of the project schedule to help with bidding and timelines. It was also shared that Power
        Packages may get rerouted to Dartmouth Rd which is currently being discussed.

        Ms. Fox further shared that the abatement process should go through the end of March and that
        the demolition may go into the beginning of April. She also thought it was important to note that
        the project budget was currently $149k under budget which could change as the project
        progresses. Ms. Fox also shared that the Mr. Saindon and Mr. Raymond would be providing
        lookaheads regularly so the community and school committee could stay Informed regarding
        future meetings and overall progress.

    4. Subcommittee Updates
       The individual committee members gave the following updates regarding the subcommittees
        Budget Subcommittee-Ms. Taylor confirmed that had been covered well already
       Policy Subcommittee-Ms. Schaeffner and Ms. Taylor stated they had not met but do meet when
        there is a need
       Facilities Subcommittee-Ms. Fox shared that she and Ms. Schaeffner did a walk through last
        week of the Coffin, Eveleth, Glover and Veterans buildings to start compiling a list of items for
        their facilities capital ask. They shared that they would like to bring in an outside audit for a
        comprehensive review of all facilities. Ms. Fox shared that they would like to share their
        recommendations with the committee at the February 26th meeting.
        Health and Wellness-Ms. Taylor shared that Health and Wellness met a few weeks ago and
        they discussed looking at sustainable materials to use in the lunchroom and composting and
        recycling. Food Services Director, Mr. Kelleher looked into cost comparisons and will bring
        updates to the March 2nd meeting. Ms. Taylor Mentioned discussing with the High School
        Sustainability Club putting together a sustainability plan to use at other schools and potentially
        pilot at the Veterans School.

VII. Correspondence
    1. Donation from Blue Anchor Woodworks
       Superintendent McAlduff reported that Blue Anchor Woodworks of Marblehead had generously
     donated about $1500 of a variety of species of wood to the wood shop and the donation was
     happily accepted. He mentioned that there was a thank you letter sent.
   2. Student Opportunity Act Responsibilities
      Superintendent McAlduff shared that he had received recent correspondence from DESE
      regarding the new Student Opportunity Act. He reminded the community that the SOA was
      passed by legislature last fall and that it would change the Chapter 70 funding formula for
      districts over the next seven years. A plan outlining the use of the funds would need to be
      submitted by April 1st. He further shared that Marblehead would be receiving a 90k increase in
      funding and the district would need to fill out the short form. He shared that the plan moving
      forward would be to review the FY21 preliminary budget to identify items proposed to funding
      that would meet the criteria for the plan, develop opportunities for community input, have the
      Leadership Team help develop the plan and bring it the School Committee for a final vote.

VIII. Closing Business
      1. New Business
          Ms. Gold apologized for not adding the new elementary school naming to the agenda and noted
          that it would be added on a future agenda item. Superintendent McAlduff shared that he would
          put together a memo to outline the process for naming and reread the policy for naming.

         Ms. Fox asked Superintendent McAlduff if he could provide an update on the tennis court
         fundraising at a future meeting. Ms. Schaeffner shared that a raffle has been scheduled for
         February 10th. Ms. Fox also asked if the committee could also follow-up with Smart Routes
         regarding a previous presentation. Superintendent McAlduff provided a thorough update on the
         Coffin School Carbon Monoxide leak that took place the previous Thursday in the boiler room
         which caused school to be canceled. He reported that the leak which was discovered before the
         start of school occurred in the boiler room and was caused by a broken exhaust fan belt on one
         of the boilers. He shared that two maintenance workers that were in the boiler room at the time
         were transported to the hospital and were released the same day and were doing well since the
         incident. He further explained that the building was kept closed the next day so the contractor,
         Plumbing Inspector and Fire Chief were able to repair, replace and test the fan belt along with
         the automatic shut off and carbon monoxide detectors that failed. Superintendent McAlduff
         shared that the community feedback provided during the emergency school committee meeting
         held on the evening of Friday January 31st focused on the topic of communication and
         emergency protocols. He explained that the district would be working on developing a stronger
         emergency crisis communication plan and that additional administrators were appointed to
         make emergency calls to parents in the event of future building closure or other emergencies.
         He also noted that the Coffin School was reopened the following Monday with a fire detail
         present on both Monday and Tuesday and that Principal Satterfield and himself had provided
         follow-up emails to parents regarding the incident. It was also mentioned that a letter would be
         sent by the Superintendent to Coffin parents explaining the longer term plan to address to
         heating system needs at the Coffin School.

         Ms. Fox thanked the Superintendent for his update and shared that she has heard nothing but
         positive feedback since the emergency meeting.

         Ms. Schaeffner shared that she attended the MASC Division Leadership Meeting in
         Marlborough on January 25th and learned information about the Student Opportunity Act,
         particularly related to Special Education topics such as transportation. She shared she would
         also be meeting with the Special Education Committee for MASC and will be meeting on
         February 27th to discuss the Student Opportunity Act further which she would report back on.
         Ms. Schaeffner also mentioned that the MIAA is looking for School Committee Representatives
         and stated that she signed up to be the skiing representative.
      2. Adjournment
         The meeting adjourned at 9:23pm.

                                                                          Respectfully Submitted,
                                                                          Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                                          Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
Music Department Accolades
Overnight Field Trips Memo
Spain Exchange Trip Packet
Superintendent Recommended 20-21SY Calendar
Schedule of Bills
Distribution of Budget Notebooks Memo
Donation Memo Acknowledgment
Student Opportunity Act Packet

Approved April 16, 2020
