                                                   Marblehead School Committee
                                                            June 18, 2020
                                                              7:00 PM
                                 Zoom Conference-Meeting ID: 935 9554 1055 & Password: 470175
                           https://zoom.us/j/93595541055?pwd=Y2gvb2ZqUkxheE9xRTREZkNzbjY0UT09
                                         Dial In (415) 762-9988 with ID and follow prompts
                                                     Meeting ID: 935 9554 1055

Members Present:                            Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Emily Barron, David Harris
                                            and Sarah Fox

Also:                                       Dr. John J. Buckey-Superintendent
                                            Michelle Cresta-Director of Finance

I.      Initial Business and Public Involvement
        1. Call to Order
             Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:05pm

        2.    Committee Organization
              Election of Officers
              i. Chairman
                 Ms. Taylor made a motion to recommend Ms. Gold as the School Committee Chair for the 2020-2021 school year
                 sharing that she felt she had “a calm and thoughtful approach which was fair and inclusive.” Ms. Harris seconded the
                 motion noting that Ms. Gold also worked well with the Interim Superintendent. A Roll call vote was taken.

                  Ms. Barron-Yes
                  Ms. Taylor-Yes
                  Mr. Harris-Yes
                  Ms. Fox-Yes
                  Ms. Gold-Yes

                 The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor
             ii. Vice-Chairman
                 Mr. Harris made a motion to nominate Ms. Taylor as Vice Chair which was seconded by Ms. Gold.
                 A roll call vote was taken.

                  Ms. Barron-Yes
                  Ms. Taylor-Yes
                  Mr. Harris-Yes
                  Ms. Fox-Yes
                  Ms. Gold-Yes

                  The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor
             iii. Secretary
                  Ms. Fox shared that she had an interest in serving as the secretary for another year mentioning that she enjoyed taking
                  the minutes when the Superintendent’s Assistant, Ms. Dimier was not able to.
                  Ms. Gold made a motion to nominate Ms. Sarah Fox as the secretary which was seconded my Ms. Taylor. A roll call
                  vote was taken.

                  Ms. Baron-Yes
                  Ms. Gold-Yes
                  Ms. Taylor-Yes
                  Mr. Harris-Yes
                  Ms. Fox-Yes
        The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor

3.   Commendations
a.   Retiree Recognition
     Superintendent McAlduff recognized recently retired and retiring teachers Susan Buonopane, Cathy Castoldi, Betsy Gay,
     Joan Geary, Melissa Humphrey, Brenda Perroni and Steve Venezia sharing good health and best wishes to them all. He
     also recognized two retiring paraprofessionals, Ms. Jones-Tentindo and Ms. Younger along with retiring tutor Ms.
     Rombach.

     Ms. Fox commended the teachers, students and parents for the team effort during the year. She also commended former
     school committee member Ms. Schaeffner for her years of service. Superintendent McAlduff thanked Ms. Schaeffner for
     her skills with organizing staff, the community and volunteers.

     Ms. Gold commended Superintendent McAlduff for all of his guidance during the year sharing that she was “incredibly
     grateful for all that has been done.”

     Mr. Harris agreed and commended Superintendent McAlduff for being present and participating with the building
     project.

     Ms. Gold also thanked all of the teachers and staff at the schools for working hard to make it through the last three
     months to move the district forward.

     Ms. Fox thanked Facilities Director Mr. Bloodgood and his custodial staff for their involvement with the election and
     keeping everything clean.

4.   Student Representative-Dan Howells
      The last official day of the school year for all students was that same day, June 18th.
      The Virtual 8th grade middle school moving beyond ceremony was also scheduled for earlier that same day but was
         rescheduled to the next day due to technical difficulty
      Looking back on the school year, Mr. Howells shared some highlights including:
         o The Football and Powderpuff Thanksgiving Day wins
         o The statewide Cross Country meet
         o The swim team winning their 15th consecutive NEC Championship
         o The boys ski team also taking home a title for the year
         o The Drama Club production of Peter and Wendy moving on to the semifinalist round of the Drama Festival
         o The High School hosting their 2nd annual Cultural Feast
         o The March 13th Senior Show
         o The virtual graduation held on June 5th which turned out to be great given the circumstances

     Ms. Gold thanked Mr. Howells for his thoughtful and prepared statements throughout the year and extended the offer for
     Mr. Howells to join as the student representative again during the 2020-2021 school year.

     Superintendent McAlduff agreed that Mr. Howells is a great role model for the student body and shared what a pleasure
     it had been to have him as part of the meetings.

5.   Public Comment
     Ms. Catherine Martin of 29 W Shore Dr. took a moment to thank former school committee member, Ms. Schaeffner for
     her many years of service and volunteer work in the district sharing that “she was a prepared and hard worker advocating
     for teachers, students and staff.” She also thanked Superintendent McAlduff as well for his professional leadership traits.

     Ms. Joan Miller of 34 Naugus Av. spoke on behalf of the Marblehead Education Association thanking Superintendent
     McAlduff for his steady leadership pointing out that “his experience and knowledge got Marblehead through the year.”

     Ms. Cindy Loewen welcomed new committee member Ms. Barron and wished the group well with incoming
     Superintendent, Dr. John Buckey. She commended the work of the central administrative team and the school committee
     for their work in putting things back together.
II.    Consent Agenda and Action Items
       Minutes:
       a. April 2, 2020
       b. April 13, 2020
       c. April 16, 2020

            Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the minutes from April 2nd, 2020, April 13th, 2020 and April, 16th 2020. The
            motion was moved by Mr. Harris and seconded by Ms. Fox. A roll call vote was taken.

            Ms. Barron-Yes
            Ms. Gold-Yes
            Ms. Taylor-Yes
            Mr. Harris-Yes
            Ms. Fox-Yes

            The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

III.   Superintendent Report
       1. School Re-Opening Update
          Superintendent McAlduff shared that the district was awaiting guidance from DESE regarding the fall reopening plan.
          He shared that incoming Superintendent Dr. Buckey would work to put together a school reopening committee to
          oversee the reopening process and planning. It was explained that the committee would be responsible for overseeing the
          protocols, procedure and social emotional needs of the reopening that would fall in line with DESE’s reopening plan.
          Superintendent McAlduff mentioned that the committee should consist of district leaders and community representatives.
          He also noted certain topics for discussion to include family surveys, an internal technology audit and staffing
          considerations such as reassignments.

            A conversation regarding PPE, Personal Protective Equipment procurement took place.

       2.   Student Fees Update
            Superintendent McAlduff recommended no increase to the student activity fees given the current circumstances sharing
            that they were already increased last school year.

IV.    Finance Organizational Support
       1. Schedule of Bills
           Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $1, 548,181.01. The motion was moved by Ms. Fox
           and seconded by Ms. Taylor. Prior to a roll call vote Ms. Fox inquired about a refund to parents for the Senior Project.
           She also confirmed that the Structural Field Peer Review was included in the building project budget to which Ms.
           Cresta confirmed that it was. A brief conversation regarding the legal fees budget took place. A roll call vote was taken.

            Ms. Barron-Yes
            Ms. Gold-Yes
            Ms. Fox-Yes
            Mr. Harris-Yes
            Ms. Taylor-Yes

            The motion carries, all in favor 5-0.

       2.   FY20 Monthly Report
            Ms. Cresta gave a verbal update on the current surplus status sharing that a total surplus of $424K was to be expected.
            She further shared that the remaining payroll would include all 52 week employees. It was explained that the district
           would be prepaying $200k in O.O.D Out of District tuition costs to decrease the budget needs for next year. Ms. Cresta
           also mentioned that the school department was working with the Town to use some of the additional surplus towards
           their capital needs for the next year with any remaining funds being returned to the town.

      3.   FY21 Budget Vote
           Superintendent McAlduff explained that the FY21 budget of $41, 521, 000 that was presented at the June Budget Public
           Hearing was the budget he would be asking the committee members to vote. He shared that the total budget included
           $30k in funds from a late retirement that had been reallocated to the line item for unknown COVID-19 related expenses.
           He thanked the committee for their work on the budget and noted that the budget should put the district in a good place
           for the 2020-2021 school year.

           Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the FY21school operating budget for $41,521,000. The motion was moved by Ms.
           Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox.

           Mr. Harris thanked Ms. Taylor and Ms. Fox for their work on the budget and also thanked Ms. Cresta for her work in
           making systems more efficient.

           Ms. Taylor also thanked the Superintendent and Ms. Cresta for getting the district to a state where the school department
           can continue to be managed in a more efficient and transparent way. A roll call vote was taken.

           Ms. Gold-Yes
           Ms. Fox-Yes
           Ms. Taylor-Yes
           Mr. Harris-Yes
           Ms. Barron-Yes

           The motion pass, 5-0 all in favor.

V.    School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
       1. School Building Project Update
          Mr. Harris shared the following building project updates:
           The rock crushing equipment had been moved offsite and ahead of schedule
           The post blast inspections that were recommended began last weekend
           Site prep and work was continuing and ground improvements would begin in the coming weeks
           The planning board approved the change related to color of brick
           The next scheduled committee meeting would be next Thursday
       2. Schedule Summer Meeting dates
          The committee discussed summer meeting dates and retreat meeting dates where a representative from the Massachusetts
          Association of School Committees would attend. Ms. Taylor noted that she had reached out to MASC representative Ms.
          Presser regarding discussing strategic planning and other focused topics. A conversation regarding the options for
          meeting in-person instead of virtually took place. Ms. Gold recommended meeting on July 8th or 9th via Zoom with a
          focus on reentry and to further discuss the plan for meeting over the summer. It was decided that the first summer
          meeting would be held on Wednesday July 8th at 7pm. A conversation regarding what topics may be of interest to discuss
          during the retreat took place. It was also mentioned that there should be a focus on the evaluation process for the new
          Superintendent.

VI.   Closing Business
      1. New Business
          Superintendent McAlduff announced that the lunch program would continue on through the end of June. He also
          announced that Marblehead parent, Samantha Rosato had kindly offered to lead a fundraiser to help cover the costs to
          continue to run the program over the summer to which the school committee graciously accepted.

           Superintendent McAlduff thanked the committee for the opportunity to join the Marblehead team. He also commended
           the staff stating that “they were an asset to the district.” He further commended the dedicated leadership team and the
           central office administrative team noting what a terrific group they were.
VII.     Adjournment
         Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 8:41pm.

                                                     Respectfully Submitted
                                                     Sarah Fox, Secretary
                                                     Marblehead School Committee

Approved October 1, 2020
