                                                                               Time:   Time
                                                                      Marblehead School Committee

                      MARBLEHEAD                                      9 Widger Road,
                                                                      Marblehead, MA 01945
                      PUBLIC SCHOOLS                                  phone: 781.639.3140 x16
                                                                      email:schoolcommittee@marbleheadschools.org

                               Facilities Subcommittee Meeting Minutes

  Date: November 16, 2020
  Time: 1:30 pm
  Location: Zoom Conference, Meeting ID 98611933517, password 753952

  Attendance:
  Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, Todd Bloodgood, Michelle Cresta, Jeff St. George, Jean Skaane, John Buckey
  (joined late)

  Agenda items
I. Call to Order

   a)        Meeting called to order at 1:33pm

   b)        Public Comment: None

   c)        Introductions: Michelle Cresta, MPS Director of Finance; Todd Bloodgood, MPS Director of
             Facilities; Jeff St. George, parent and business person in facilities related field; Sarah Fox, School
             Committee member and parent; Emily Barron, School Committee member and parent; Jean
             Skaane, Member of Sustainable Marblehead

II. FY20 Facilities Discussion

   a)        Discussion regarding recirculation of existing facilities plan.

        i)      Concern was expressed about the plan going forward for current school buildings, as well as,
                the new school building under construction. We do not want the district to have to revisit
                the issue of deferred maintenance. We need to move forward with facilities condition
                assessment. This is really important and is a time sensitive issue for budget purposes.
                Discussion of the creation of a building play book to be established and maintained. This
                would be a lengthy document.
 III. FY21 Facilities Update

     a)    COVID response is putting a strain on our HVAC systems. We are checking systems at least once
           a month. We need to use common sense with windows being open during winter months. We
           are not utilizing UV lighting in our systems. We have replaced as many filters as possible with
           MERV 13 filters. We are currently purging the air systems every two hours to bring in fresh air.

           With the MERV 13 filters we expect that we will experience the burning out of some motors.
           The systems are not designed to accommodate such high grade filters. The cost of replacement
           motors can run from $150 - $700 for new motors. In addition, some motors can be rebuilt.
           Todd does have some spare motors on hand.

 IV. Facilities Master Plan Discussion

     a)    Michelle will reach out to On-Site Insight who provided the earlier quote for a facilities
           condition assessment. We are hoping to be able to schedule for January.

     b)    There are other capital items that are needed in our facilities that are not included with the
           condition assessment. These include cameras and card swipe systems. In addition, the school
           department is expected to submit vehicle requests for the upcoming FY22 budget.

  V. Capital Improvement Status

     a)    (Covered above)

 VI. FY21 Meeting Schedule

     a)    The committee will meet on the second Monday of each month at 1:30pm.

VII. New Business

     a)    It was asked what would be needed in terms of facilities and transportation for both cohort A
           and cohort B to attend in-person learning on the same day with one scheduled in the morning
           and one in the afternoon. Todd responded that we would need one additional bus driver and
           one additional bus monitor. In addition, we would need at least 90 minutes between cohorts to
           clean with all staff on hand. This would not be an easy task, but it would not be impossible.

VIII. Adjournment

     a)    Meeting adjourned at 2:28pm
