                         Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                       Thursday May 20, 2021
                                               7:00pm

                        Zoom Recording ID 933 4367 9340 & Password 678117

          https://zoom.us/j/93343679340?pwd=WDFHZng5SGlXN01rUWh2RlY5VTVudz09

Members Present:       Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

Also:                  John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                       Dan Bauer, Principal
                       Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance

   I.   Initial Business and Public Involvement
        1. Call to Order
             Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:01pm.
        2. Commendations
             a. Building Based Commendations-Coffin Elementary School Principal, Sean Satterfield
                 Ms. Gold shared that Principal, Sean Satterfield was unable to be in attendance for the
                 evening and would join the committee at one of the next meetings.
             b. School Committee Commendations
                 Ms. Taylor commended the seniors who organized the Cultural Feast last Friday
        3. Student Representative – Dan Howells
             Students were taking the changing COVID and masking guidelines in stride
             MCAS for 10th graders will begin the following week
             Powder Puff will play next Tuesday but only two spectators per participants will be allowed
             This coming weekend the high school drama club will host the 25th annual production of the
             Putnam County Spelling Bee, which will take place under the tents at the high school
        4. Public Comment
             Catherine Martin of West Shore Drive requested a look ahead presentation for the Planning
             for Success Initiative

   II. Superintendent Report
       1. Graduation Update-High School Principal, Daniel Bauer
          Principal Bauer shared that masks would no longer be required for outdoor graduation. He
          also shared that the total number of guests per student could not exceed six and that attendees
          will be required to sign up in advance and fill out an attestation from. It was mentioned that
          the music department will perform while still adhering to social distancing guidelines. The
          graduation event will be live streamed for those family members that are unable to attend.
       2. Mask Guidance Update
          Dr. Buckey shared that revisions from legal to policy EBCFA Face Coverings were provided
          to the committee that afternoon. He noted that a revision to the section of the policy which
          references delegating the Superintendent to make changes to the mask policy per DESE
          guidance was requested by Ms. Fox after the document had already been input into the
          Dropbox. He shared that the sentences referencing the delegation of the Superintendent
          would no longer end, yet continue on to read “, and provided that a quorum of the school
          committee cannot be available within such time that the updated guidance can be promptly
          implemented.”
       Ms. Gold noted other slight language adjustments to the face coverings policy that were
       recommended from the changes that were voted the previous night.

       Mr. Harris made a motion to reconsider the policy for Face coverings for EBCFA to which
       Ms. Taylor seconded.
       A roll call vote was taken and the motion to discuss the new suggested edits passed 5-0.

       Ms. Gold-yes
       Mr. Harris-yes
       Ms. Fox-yes
       Ms. Taylor-yes
       Ms. Barron-yes

       Mr. Harris made another motion to approve the Face covering policy EBCFA as presented
       this evening with the changes brought forth by Sarah Fox and Dr. Buckey. After a brief
       discussion, the committee agreed to vote the motion and further ratify the policy as necessary.
       A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes 5-0.

       Ms. Gold-yes
       Ms. Fox-yes
       Mr. Harris-yes
       Ms. Taylor-yes
       Ms. Barron-yes

       Ms. Fox asked Dr. Buckey to confirm the final day of school to which he responded was June
       15th.

   3. District Updates
      Dr. Buckey shared the first Planning for Success meeting went well with the facilitator. He
      shared that he and Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy will host a forum to involve
      community members in the process. The Leadership Team will be meeting next week to
      identify needs. It was shared that the five-year plan is anticipated to be complete for the fall
      of the 2021-2022 school year.

       Ms. Fox shared how impressed she is with the student representatives on the committee.

III. Finance Organizational Support
     1. Schedule of Bills
         Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the schedules totaling $225,574.23. It was moved by Ms.
         Taylor and seconded by Mr. Harris. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes 4-0-1

       Ms. Gold-yes
       Ms. Fox-yes
       Mr. Harris-yes
       Ms. Taylor-yes
       Ms. Barron-yes

IV. School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
    1. Sustainability Discussion
    Ms. Taylor suggested expanding a composting pilot program at Veterans and the Village
    schools for the fall.

    Ms. Fox inquired about the use of reusable plates for the new Brown School to which Mr.
    Harris explained that there was no current plan to utilize reusable dishes and silverware for
    students. He did note that the district would not be using Styrofoam plates. Dr. Buckey
    offered to work offline with the Food Services Director to further to conversation.

    Ms. Harris shared that the Brown School will be the first LEED certified school in the
    district.

2. Superintendent Evaluation Process Update
   Ms. Gold reminded the committee that individual evaluations were due that day. Ms. Gold
   offered an extension to submissions until the following Monday or Tuesday.

   Ms. Gold explained her thought process for compiling the summative report sharing that
   herself and the Superintendent’s Assistant would work together for the final compilation. Ms.
   Fox requested that every committee member voice be heard in the compilation to which Ms.
   Gold agreed.
3. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
   a. Facilities Capital Update
       Ms. Fox mentioned that the individual facilities assessment documents are posted to the
       committee website. Ms. Fox shared that the assessments were broken up by critical and
       long-term need over a twenty-year period. Ms. Fox pointed out that there is $1.5 million
       dollars of critical need anticipated for infrastructure alone. She also noted that the
       assessment did not account for the new Brown School as the assessment only covered
       existing buildings.

        Ms. Fox shared that Sustainable Marblehead will join the next facilities subcommittee
        meeting to help offer some insight into sustainable practices and grant ideas.

        Ms. Fox also mentioned that a memorandum of understanding with the parks and
        recreation department would be beneficial in maintaining the grounds.

        Mr. Harris inquired if there are additional funds available for the scope of work
        assessments if the committee sought additional information. Ms. Fox could not confirm
        an exact number but did confirm that the assessment was very thorough with few
        questions to be left to answer.

        Ms. Taylor mentioned that the Unsung Hero Award information should be coming out in
        June and to be on the lookout for it.

        Ms. Barron mentioned that the Cultural Feast raised money for scholarships for one
        METCO and one Marblehead student and commended the success of the event.

4. Building Project Update
   Mr. Harris shared a video update from the progress of the new Brown School sharing that the
   sidewalks are poured, skylights are in. He did mention that a playground vendor experienced
   a fire in one of their factories which will create a two to three week delay for certain pieces.
   V. Closing Business
      1. New Business
         None
      2. Correspondence
         None
      3. Public Comment
         Erin Noonan of 15 Beverly Avenue shared her disappoint with not being able to provide
         reusable plates for the Brown School.

           Scott Solberg of 1 Ramsy Rd. shared that he is honored to be part of the Planning for Success
           initiative and commended the committee on a productive meeting. He also commended the
           Director of Student Services, Dr. Oxford for his recent presentation to SEPAC earlier in the
           month where he shared his vision to put the district on a new level for inclusive services.

           Jean Skaane of 16 Foster Street and leader of Sustainable Marblehead’s educational working
           group shared her excitement over the Brown School being LEED certified. She mentioned
           utilizing refillable water bottle stations in the building and beginning composting. Ms. Skaane
           also spoke in favor of the school being polystyrene free by opening day.

          Catherine Martin of West Shore drive spoke in favor of opening the Brown School
          polystyrene free noting her disappoint if it did not.
       4. Adjournment
          Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 8:25pm.

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved January 6, 2022
