                         Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                      Thursday October 28, 2021
                                               7:00pm

Zoom Recording ID 506 450 3898

https://us06web.zoom.us/j/5064503898

Members Present:        Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Emily Barron, David Harris

Participated Remote:    Sarah Fox

Also:                   John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                        Diversity Equity and Inclusion Team Members
                        Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance

I.      Initial Business and Public Comment
        a. Call to Order
             Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:02pm.
        b. Commendations
               Ms. Fox thanked the custodians and Town for their work with power outages on the
                  school cancelation day the day before on October 27th.
               Ms. Taylor thanked the Brown PTO for hosting the Halloween Monster Mash.
        c. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
             Not in attendance that evening.
        d. Public Comment
             No public comment

II.     Consent Action and Agenda Items
        a. Minutes- 4/15/2021 and 4/29/2021
           Ms. Gold asked for a motion to approve the minutes for April 15th and April 29th 2021
           which was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken and
           the motion passes, 5-0.

           Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Harris, Ms. Fox and Ms. Barron-all yes
        b. Approval to Declare High School Visual Arts Furniture as Surplus
           Ms. Gold made a motion to declare the high school visual arts furniture on the list provided
           as surplus goods. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox and a roll
           call vote was taken with the motion passing, 5-0.

           Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Harris, Ms. Fox and Ms. Barron-all yes
III.    Superintendent Report
        a. Diversity Equity and Inclusion, DEI Presentation-Office of Teaching and Learning
           Ms. Barron provided an introduction to the DEI team purpose and named the participating
           members including 3 high school students.

            High School Principal, Ms. Lynsey Page provided some insight as to how the team developed
            their mission statement. Second grade teacher, Ms. Maggie Doben explained the importance
            of sharing the statement with all faculty in an equitable way. Assistant Principal, Ms. Julia
            Ferreira walked the committee through the approach that was used to help include the staff in
            understanding how the mission statement could relate to their daily teaching environment.
         METCO Director, Deandra Williams discussed how the statement and the DEI work tied into
         the Planning for Success PfS Initiative.
      b. District Updates
         Superintendent Buckey commended the Director of Facilities, Todd Bloodgood , the
         Technology Director, Stephen Kwiatek and his Assistant for their support with navigating the
         unexpected cancellation of school the day before.

          A meeting with the Town regarding ARPA funds will take place the following day and
          summer programming along with HVAC and IT upgrades will be prioritized for discussion.

          Ms. Fox inquired about funding for hosting vaccination clinics in district to which
          Superintendent Buckey confirmed the plan to host clinics was already being considered.

IV.   Finance and Organizational Support
      a. Schedules
          Ms. Gold informed the committee that schedules would be provided at the next meeting.

V.    School Committee Communication and/or Discussion Items
      a. Review of Policies
         i. EBCFA Face Coverings
         ii. IJNDD Social Networking Policy for Staff
         iii. IJOC School Volunteers

          Ms. Fox requested that the social networking policy and the school volunteer policy be
          reviewed by legal prior to voting them at the next meeting.

          Ms. Gold informed the committee that the face covering policy had been revised to reflect
          verbiage pertaining to reaching the 80% staff and student vaccination threshold by building to
          be able to apply for a waiver to go mask optional.

          Ms. Fox asked that language be added to the policy clarifying that the submitted waiver
          attestation be not only submitted to but “approved by” DESE for approval to go mask
          optional.

         A conversation about the mask mandate being extended until January 15th took place. The
         committee discussed waiting to vote the face coverings policy until one of the next meetings
         as the consensus was that there would be enough time to vote the policy in support of
         becoming a mask optional building, prior to meeting the threshold to apply for a waiver.
      b. Facilities Memorandum of Agreement
         The memorandum will be revisited at the meeting on the 18th of November. A conversation
         regarding maintaining ownership of certain properties for future use occurred. Ms. Fox
         requested that a forum for discussing the future use of properties be considered.

VI.   Closing Business
      a. New Business
         None
      b. Correspondence
         Ms. Gold mentioned that the committee received an email from the Task Force Against
         Discrimination thanking the committee for sharing the DEI statement.
      c. Adjournment
         Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 8:26pm.
Materials Included:
High School Visual Arts surplus Memo
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Presentation
Policies: EBCFA, IJNDD and IJOC
Memorandum of Agreement with Board of Selectmen


Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved March 3, 2022
