                                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                             Thursday February 11, 2021
                                                      5:00pm
                                 Zoom Recording ID 972 4650 3029 & Password 268652

       https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/j/97246503029?pwd=ZVA4eEh3ZlNOZUdNQ0dESkJQOVNQZz09

Members Present:              Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

Also:                         John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                              Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                              Amanda Rivers, School Nurse
                              Directors:
                              Eric Oxford, Student Services
                              Greg Ceglarski, Athletics
                              Stephen Kwiatek, Technology
                              Richard Kelleher, Food Services
                              Todd Bloodgood, Facilites
                              Michelle Cresta, Finance

I.          Call to Order
            Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 5:02pm.

II.         Update on Pool Testing
            Nurse, Amanda Rivers provided an update on pool testing sharing that the school district had
            recently signed on with the state to be part of their free program. Ms. Rivers informed the
            community that she had placed an order for antigen tests, began preparing consent forms and was
            in the beginning stages of planning for implementation. She further explained that the district
            would be paired with an online platform for managing the tracking of testing. The process for how
            to test with the least disruption was discussed along with the quarantine protocols that would be
            put in place once a positive pool was identified. It was noted that the anticipated start date of pool
            testing would be March 1st and it could begin at the high school, where the district was seeing the
            highest number of Covid cases.

III.        FY22 Budget Workshop
            Each Director from the individual departments took the time to inform the school committee of
            their FY22 focused budget priorities.

       a.   Student Services
            The Director of Student Services, Eric Oxford discussed the following:
                 Staffing for the new elementary school
                 The plan to increase the number of fellows from a total of 4 to a total of 5
                 Tuition-in revenues and the option to prepay up to $200k in Out of District tuition costs
                 How grant funding could be allocated to support transportation costs and compensatory
                     services

       b.   Athletics
            The Athletics Director, Greg Ceglarski discussed the following:
                 The increase in transportation costs due accommodating for the social distancing
                     guidelines
                 Overall Purchases being down from the uncertainty of being able to play certain sports
                 The need for new scoreboards along with new hockey and football uniforms and helmets

                A conversation discussing user fees and coaching stipends occurred.
      c.   Technology
           The Technology Director, Stephen Kwiatek discussed the following:
                Contracted services for hardware and software
                The updating and upgrading of system switches and the wifi capacity
                Updating the phone system at the high school, the middle school and the central
                   administration offices
                E-rate federal funding and how it worked
                The need for a Technology Integration Specialist

               A conversation discussing the leasing options available for phone and wireless services and
               the ongoing additional costs beyond the first year took place.

      d.   Food Services
           The Food Services Director, Richard Kelleher discussed the following:
                The additional position of a cook and manager at the new elementary school
                The increase in hours for staff joining the new elementary school

      e.   Curriculum/Assistant Superintendent
           Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy noted the following areas of concern that assisted her with
           building the FY22 budget for the Office of Teaching and Learning:
                 Aligning curriculum and materials across schools
                 Instructional practices and the data culture within schools
                 Resuming the adoption of a new Math program which had begun prior to Covid
                 Addressing the need for compensatory services due to the achievement gaps that would
                    be a direct result of the pandemic

           It was explained that some of the Student Opportunity Act (SOA) funding would be used to close
           chronic achievement gaps. Superintendent Murphy also mentioned the need for two instructional
           support specialists.

      f.   Facilities
           The Food Services Director, Todd Bloodgood discussed the following:
                The incurred costs from the electric, heating and water of the Eveleth and Coffin Schools
                     that will no longer be open but need to be maintained
                The request for two new custodians to manage the upkeep of the Brown School and an
                     additional request for a full time assistant

      g.   Central Office
           Superintendent Buckey shared that the central office would look to fund a Director of Human
           Resources and a position for a Communications Liaison. He further explained the need for both
           sharing that many of the responsibilities of Human Resources were currently being managed by
           himself, his assistant and the Director of Finance. Dr. Buckey noted that continuous transparent
           communication would be the expectation of the liaison while allowing himself and his
           administrative team to focus more on the daily operations of the district.

           A discussion regarding the Communication Liaison’s full time equivalency status took place.
           Further discussion regarding the recent history of the Human Resources Department and positions
           within also occurred.

           A committee member shared that they felt all non-student facing priories should not be
           considered.

IV.        Adjournment
           The meeting adjourned at 8:03pm
Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved June 17, 2021
