                        Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                      Thursday April 29, 2021
                                              7:00pm

                       Zoom Recording ID 926 6265 7863 & Password 934149
      https://zoom.us/j/92662657863?pwd=dFQ1L1hsZFZCcWhsZlVUVGxjelpOQT09

Members Present:       Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

Also:                  John J. Buckey, Superintendent

I.       Initial Business and Public Involvement
         a. Call to Order
              Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:01pm.
         b. School Committee Commendations
               Mr. Harris recognized student Loeden Rodrigues for being named the Massachusetts
                  Cross Country Runnerof the Year
               Ms. Gold recognized the efforts of all educators and community members alike to be
                  able to return to inperson learning.
               Superintendent Buckey recognized Veterans Principal Mathew Fox on being named
                  Principal of the Year.
               Principal Fox thanked Superintendent Buckey for the recognition and thanked all of his
                  staff members noting how without their support, the recognition would not have been
                  possible.
               Ms. Fox mentioned, “the measure of a true leader is how Principal Fox commends his
                  staff.”
               Superintendent Buckey thanked the Lucretia and Joseph Brown Elementary School
                  Search Committee for their work in interviewing candidates. It was mentioned the over
                  30 applicants that applied were narrowed down to semi-finalist and then to finalist
                  interviews after participating in both an educator and parent forum.Superintendent
                  Buckey named internal applicant, Sean Satterfield as Principal of the new school.
         c. Public Comment
               Scott Solberg of Ramsy Rd. commended Principal Fox and recognized him for his
                  student onboarding process and his work with social emotional learning. Mr. Solberg
                  noted his calmness, professionalism andfocus on the needs of his students.

II.      Superintendent’s Report
         a. Presentation of Entry Plan
            Superintendent Buckey reminded the committee that the purpose of the entry plan to was to
            learn as much as possible about the community and culture of the district, which he was
            able to accomplish through stakeholder interviews, school visits and community outreach.
            Superintendent Buckey mentioned that COVID did unfortunately have an impact on the
            entry planning process. He shared that the goals he would prioritize would focus on the
            social emotional health of the students, transparent communication and building a culture
            and climate of positive outcomes and achievement for students. Superintendent Buckey
            shared areas of his goals that had yet to be initiated, were in progress, or had already been
            completed. He further shared the key questions he asked of thestakeholders he interviewed.
            He thanked his mentor, Christine McGrath former Interim Superintendent, Bill McAlduff,
            Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy and his Assistant Ms. Dimier for all of their support
            and guidance.
       b. Strategic Plan Development Process
          Superintendent Buckey shared that the renaming of the Strategic Plan to “Planning for
          Success” PfS is a DESE initiative. He explained that the district would be working with a
          DESE facilitator so that he as the Superintendent could be part of the process and not just be
          leading the process for others. He explained that utilizing the Leadership Team to begin the
          process of identifying strengths and weaknesses would be a beneficial first step. He also
          mentioned that the union representatives could help to recommend members to be part of the
          Planning for Success PfS team to “help strengthen stakeholder engagement and plan
          credibility. “Superintendent Buckey further shared that he envisioned the planning team to
          consist of 25 members including the Superintendents, Student Services and METCO
          Directors, all of the building principals, a SEPAC representative, teachers, parent
          representatives, community representatives, a school committee representative and student
          representatives. It was mentioned that the timeline to achieve the initial Planning for Success
          objectives would bea period of four months so the plan could be in place for the start of the
          2021-2022 school year. Superintendent Buckey noted that applications to become a member
          should be submitted by Monday, May 10th at 9am. He also explained that members should
          be able to commit to in person attendance for the four scheduled meeting dates.

           Committee members discussed member considerations and requested that a person of color
           and a selectman berepresented. It was also requested that student schedules be considered for
           student participants that would be taking part.

III.   School Committee and/or Discussion Items
       Discussion of Superintendent Evaluation Process
       Ms. Gold shared that Superintendent Buckey’s goals would be used for evaluating the
       Superintendent. She explainedthat the rubric guide that was part of the packet walked members
       through the standards related to the goals. It was mentioned that summative reports would be
       submitted to the individual compiling the reports. It was recommended by an MASC
       representative that Superintendent Buckey suggest the six to eight criteria he would like to be
       considered for evaluation. Ms. Gold explained that the evaluation process would look a bit
       different to begin the following year due to the focus on COVID related factors during the current
       school year. Superintendent Buckey’s mentor, Christine McGrath explained that the focused
       indicators may be scaled back in light of the context in which educator were working noting that
       “less is more” during the evaluation process this year due to the many obstacles districts have
       faced pertaining to COVID. Ms. Gold recommended selecting a designee to work with the
       Superintendent’s Assistant to compile. After a conversation, it was decided that the
       Superintendent would provide hisself-evaluation to the committee by May 6th one week from the
       meeting. It was decided that individual evaluations be submitted to Ms. Gold and the
       Superintendent’s Assistant by May 20th with the compilation shared 48 hours before the June 3rd
       meeting in which it would be shared.

IV.    Closing BusinessAdjournment
       Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 8:38pm.

       Respectfully Submitted,
       Lisa Dimier, Secretary
       Marblehead School Committee

       Approved October 28, 2021
