                       Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                     Tuesday August 24, 2021
                                            7:00pm

                        Zoom Recording ID 831 8625 7534 & Password 069045

         https://us06web.zoom.us/j/83186257534?pwd=RitxWGNONE1PMnplc1N6Rk55RUttdz09


Members Present:       Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

Also:                  John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                       Nurse Candidates, Amanda Mavros and Joseph Griffin
                       Nurse, Deanna McMahon
                       Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance

   I.       Initial Business and Public Comment
            a. Called to Order
                 Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:03 pm and noted that all members other than
                 Ms. Fox were present. Ms. Fox joined the meeting virtually at 7:05pm.

                Ms. Gold shared that earlier that day the Board of Elementary and Secondary Education
                granted the Education Commissioner the authority to mandate masks for all k-12 school
                buildings throughout the state. A mask mandate will remain in place until October 1,
                2021.

                Ms. Gold further explained that the Superintendent would be discussing the mask
                mandate that evening and that the agenda for a meeting the following Thursday has been
                amended to include a K-3 scheduling update.

                Before beginning the public comment section of the meeting Ms. Gold requested that
                community members comment on agenda specific items and keep comments to 3minutes
                in length per the policy guidelines.

            b. Public Comment
                Ms. Jessica Schott of Oak Circle spoke in favor of holding two daily recess breaks
                  for lower elementary students.

   II.      Consent Action and Agenda Items
            a. Veterans School Nurse
               Principal Fox informed the committee that he was recommending Ms. Amanda Mavros
               for the nurse position at the middle school. He gave a brief introduction of her
               professional background which has included working at Brigham and Womens and
               Spaulding Rehab. It was shared that Ms. Mavros held two degrees; a degree in nutrition
          and one in nursing. As an additional bonus, Ms. Mavros has already spent time as an on-
          call sub in the district.

          Ms. Gold made a motion to approve Amanda Mavros as the Veterans School nurse
          Which was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron.

          A roll call vote was taken and the motion passed, 5-0.
          Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Harris, Ms. Barron, Ms. Fox-all in favor

       b. COVID Coordinator Nurse
          Due to technical difficulties with the recommended candidate joining the meeting, this
          agenda item was discussed following the Superintendent’s Report.

          Following the Superintendent’s Report and after a brief introduction, Ms. Gold made a
          motion to appoint Joseph Griffin as a long-term substitute nurse and COVID
          Coordinator. The motion was moved by Ms. Barron and seconded by Ms. Taylor. A roll
          call vote was taken and the motion passed, 5-0

          Ms. Gold, Ms. Fox, Ms. Baron, Mr. Harris and Ms. Taylor-all in favor.

III.   Superintendent Report
       a. Back to School COVID Preparedness Plan
          i.      Superintendent Recommendations and Mask Discussion with board of Health

                  Dr. Buckey provided an update on the plan for returning to school. He shared
                  DESE guidance regarding the plan to return to school in-person full time for five
                  days a week. He further explained that a state sponsored testing program was
                  being looked into. COVID mitigation strategies was discussed and it was
                  explained that masking, social distancing, ventilation considerations and personal
                  protective equipment along with cleaning protocols was of primary concern to
                  ensure a safe return.

                  Lead Nurse, Deanna McMahon provided an overview of the COVID state testing
                  program. She explained symptomatic testing, close contact testing “Test and
                  Stay” and routine pooled testing. She further explained close contact concerns
                  and the quarantine guidelines for both positive and close contact cases. It was
                  noted that a district attestation form would be used to monitor staff and students
                  for daily symptoms.

                  The Food Services and Technology Directors also provided department updates
                  for the start of the new school year.
                   Federal Lunch Program-meals will be covered for all students
                   Technology Updates
                            Increased bandwidth
                            New firewall for increased internet speeds
                           Additional wireless connections
                           Phone upgrades
                           New website with Blackboard Connect capabilities

                 A conversation regarding the plan for daily lunch delivery and the use of grant
                 funds to help offset deficits of the lunch program took place.

                 It was mentioned that any references to the “Reopening Committee” would
                 pertain to the new Superintendent’s Advisory Leadership Team SALT. Dr.
                 Buckey shared that the new group would welcome MEA representatives and
                 district directors.

                 After a committee member inquired, it was confirmed that three hundred and
                 fifty (350) air purifiers have been ordered to be used throughout buildings and
                 that masks would be available to all students daily.

IV.   School Committee and/or Discussion Items
      a. Bus Fee Update
         Director of Finance, Ms. Cresta provided a bussing update sharing that the district would
         be providing free transportation to Kindergarten through 6th grade students who live over
         two miles from school. Registration will be required for all student riders.

         She also informed the committee that the district will be launching a new bus pilot
         program in which an optional fee based transportation program will become available to
         K-6 students who reside less than two miles from school. It was explained that eight (8)
         additional seats would be available. Registration will be on a first come-first serve basis
         and the fee will be $250 per student. Interested families should register at
         transportaion@marbleheadschools.org when registration opens on Friday August 27th at
         9am. Ms. Cresta noted that due to the fee involved, the committee would need to vote to
         approve the cost for the optional program.

         Ms. Fox shared her concerns regarding a national shortage of bus drivers and obligations
         to meet the bussing needs of students. She also inquired about courtesy bussing for
         families assigned to alternate schools during the building of the new elementary school.
         Ms. Cresta confirmed that a bus from Coffin to Eveleth would be run for the first six
         weeks of the school year.

         Dr. Buckey confirmed that the district was working to incentivize training to become
         certified to drive a bus.

V.    Closing Business
      a. New Business
         None
      b. Correspondence
          c. None
          d. Adjournment
             Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting 8:51 pm.

Materials Included:
Veterans Nurse Recommendation
COVID Coordinator Nurse Recommendation
Superintendent’s Reopening Update
Bus Fees Memo


Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved February 17, 2022
