                          Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                         Thursday April 8, 2021
                                                6:00pm

                        Zoom Recording ID 999 2109 3688 & Password 720598
          https://zoom.us/j/99921093688?pwd=emxWRWFvSUFtbW9nbkxoYVZ4d0lQZz09

Members Present:         Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

Also:                    John J. Buckey, Superintendent

   1. Call to Order
      Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 6:01pm.
      a. Public comment
          None

   2. FY22 Budget Vote
      Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the FY22 operating budget for $41,839,543. The motion was
      moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron.

        Ms. Fox read a prepared statement sharing that she would not be supporting the budget due the
        use of one-time revenues to fund recurring costs and due to the reduction in staffing at the new
        elementary school.

        Ms. Taylor clarified the reduction in staff was due to the consolidation of multiple buildings
        which was a natural process and that any other reductions was driven by enrollment.

        Mr. Harris thanked Superintendent Buckey and Ms. Cresta for getting the district to this point in
        the budget and shared his excitement over the opening of the new school.

        Ms. Taylor noted that although she appreciated Ms. Fox’s feedback, it would have been most
        helpful to receive it prior to voting. She further noted that she felt the budget supported what it set
        out to support.

        Ms. Fox requested that extra teaching positions be funded with additional COVID funding to
        provide mitigation for learning loss.

        A conversation regarding enrollment numbers and staffing took place.

        A roll call vote was taken.

        Ms. Gold-yes
        Ms. Taylor-yes
        Mr. Harris-yes
        Ms. Barron-yes
        Ms. Fox-no

        The motion passes 4-1.
   3. In Person Learning Update
      Superintendent Buckey shared a slideshow of updates from each building principal. He reminded
      the community of the phases of returning to in person learning and walked through all of the
      mitigation protocols in place to support continued in person learning.

       Ms. Gold noted the importance of social distancing and masking especially while indoors while
       Dr. Buckey mentioned the benefit of pool testing as the district moved back into in-person
       learning.

       Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 6:43pm.

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved October 7, 2021
