                            Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                         Thursday February 4, 2021
                                                 7:00pm
                       Zoom Conference Meeting ID: 944 6670 8263 & Password: 548463
             https://zoom.us/j/94466708263?pwd=MHhVT2JGRzYwbDUxb243WWNyNmd0UT09


Members Present:          Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

Also:                     John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                          Deanna McMahon, High School Nurse
                          Meaghan Kalpin, High School Nurse
                          Dan Bauer, High School Principal
                          Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance


I.      Initial Business and Public Involvement
        1. Call to Order
             Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:02pm
        2. Commendations
             a. Building Based Commendations-Glover School, Principal Brian Ota
                  Lockerbie 8 students suffered loss of parents, Care Dimensions last year March 4th of last year
                     presentation on grieving, question is not will but when, 6 week virtual group past fall , express
                     feelings with other who experience similar loss and share feelings in a safe place, now weekly
                     at mental health group every Thursday, like to implement district-wide
             b. School Committee Commendations
                None
        3. Student Representative – Dan Howells
               The Virtual Club Fair was held detailing all clubs at H.S-helpful for Freshman
               The Freshman partnered with Stow Away Sweet for their Valentine’s Day Fundraiser -15% of
                   sales would go towards the Freshman Class
               The Musical Urinetown will be streaming Friday and Saturday evening at 7pm
               There would be the addition of a Spirit Week next week to celebrate the last week before February
                   break

              Ms. Gold informed the           community      that   they   could   purchase    tickets   by   visiting
              mhdschoolcommittee.org.

        4.   Public Comment
             Ms. Gold requested that due to the full agenda that all public comment not relating to the naming of the
             new school be taken first. She also asked that comments be kept to one minute when sharing input about
             the school name.
                   Catherine Martin spoke in favor of lessening the social distancing guidelines from 6 feet to 3
                      feet to bring students back in person more days. She also spoke in favor of implementing pool
                      testing and mentioned the importance of a well-funded budget to adopt pool testing in the long-
                      term.
                   Dawn Johns spoke in favor of lessening the social distancing guidelines and mentioned
                      speaking with the MEA to negotiate the change.
                   Emily Dewitt also spoke in favor lessening the social distancing guidelines and mentioned the
                      importance of vaccinations for educators. She also discussed implementing more mitigation
                      strategies to address wide spread mental health concerns amongst students and their families.
                   Kim Day reminded the committee about reaching out to the many volunteers in the community
                   Alexia Kearney shared that 13-20% of children were suffering from mental health diagnosis
                      before the pandemic and that only 10% on average received support or therapy.
                        She stressed that the impact that remote and hybrid learning has on children was real and
                        introduced her son, a Junior at the high school to express his feelings of that impact.
                       Niall Kearney informed the committee that he had countless friends who were going through a
                        difficult time due to the social isolation they were experiencing. He stressed the importance of
                        more mental health/social emotional support noting that one emotional health check in a month
                        was not enough for students.
                       Kristen Pratt thanked the committee for holding public comment on the new elementary school
                        name. She also thanked the department for the increase in communication website, multiple
                        websites and redundant emails, clarity on what parents and community can do to supports
                        school. Ms. Pratt stressed the importance of working together to change what is happening.
                       Michelle Gottleib from the Board of Health shared that the Board of Health is hearing the
                        community and are listening. She noted that mental health is in the purview of what the Board
                        of Health and they are working. Volunteering is difficult due to contract tracing. Way to help
                        signed up for Medical Reserve Core
                       Erin Noonan thanked Ms. Gottleib for attending the meeting. She also spoke in favor of pooled
                        testing.
                       Ms. Virginia Brown addressed concerns supporting children who were struggling with their
                        grades during a remote learning period. She spoke in favor of returning to full days even if it
                        were only two days a week.
                       Mr. Henry Turner of 18 Taft Street spoke in favor of naming the new elementary school the
                        Lucretia and Joseph Brown School.
                       Mr. Jonathan Letterman shared his concerns regarding the transparency of the school
                        committee. He spoke in favor of the school committee engaging more with the public.
                       Ms. Melanie Lloyd of 26 Arthur Avenue read a statement from the racial justice team
                        supporting naming the new elementary school the Lucretia and Joseph Brown School.
                       Ms. Sherry Gagnon spoke in favor of naming the new elementary school the Lucretia and
                        Joseph Brown School.
                       Ms. Cindy Tower-Loewen spoke in favor of naming the new elementary school the Lucretia
                        and Joseph Brown School.
                       Ms. Leah Bokenkamp spoke in favor of naming the new elementary school the Lucretia and
                        Joseph Brown School.
                       Teacher Ms. Natalie Belli spoke of the importance of considering historical events when
                        selecting a name for the new elementary school.

 II.   Consent Agenda and Action Items
          1. Minutes: 12/17/2020, 1/21/2021
              Ms. Gold noted that a set of minutes was late and asked the committee if they were ready to vote on the
              minutes. Ms. Fox noted that some votes were missing from the January 21st set. Ms. Gold noted that the
              minutes from January 21st could be held and voted the next time.

               Ms. Gold made a motion to accept the minutes from December 17, 2020 and asked the committee if
               there were any requested edits. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Harris

               A roll call vote was taken.
               Ms. Gold-yes
               Ms. Taylor-yes
               Mr. Harris-yes
               Ms. Barron-yes
               Ms. Fox-yes

               The motion passes all in favor, 5-0

III.   Superintendent Report
          1. Marblehead High School Program of Studies-2021-2022 Proposed Changes
     Principal Bauer explained the high school was beginning to plan for the next school year with aligning
     the program of studies with the course selections that will be made available for the 2021-2022 school
     year. He shared a list of adjustments that were made to course titles and sections, adjustments per course
     that affected certain grade levels and which courses would be eliminated or added.

     High School Special Education Chair Dr. Paula Donnelly shared that students participating in the
     curriculum support block would be provided 2.5 credits moving forward as opposed to no credits which
     would help them to meet the credit requirements for graduation.

     Dr. Buckey commended the work of Principal Bauer and his team for all of the research they did in
     support of making adjustments to the programs of study sharing how impressed he was by the team.

     Ms. Gold made a motion to accept Principal Bauer’s Marblehead program of studies changes for the
     2021-2022school year. The motion was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor.

     A roll call vote was taken.
     Ms. Gold-yes
     Ms. Taylor-yes
     Mr. Harris-yes
     Ms. Fox-yes
     Ms. Barron-yes

     The motion passes all in favor, 5-0

2.   Pooled Testing Discussion
     Dr. Buckey explained that he felt it was important for the school committee to be provided a presentation
     on pooled testing sharing what it was and how it could be implemented. Dr. Buckey explained that he
     had put Marblehead in the queue to participate to be prepared for program implementation as the
     adoption of pooled testing may require the hiring of a new nurse.

     High School nurses Deanna, McMahon and Meaghan Kalpin presented a slideshow on pooled testing
     explaining how it was being used in schools to test for the COVID-19 virus.
          DESE supported pooled surveillance testing program at no cost to districts for six (6) weeks
              ending on March 28th
          Students and staff would be organized into pools of 10-25 per group
          Outcome of pools would prompt further testing if a positive pool was detected
          Performed at least once per week by nursing staff
          The vendor that the district would be paired with would provide:
              a) Training
              b) Software for managing results
              c) Delivery of supplies
              d) Lab Processing
          After the free six (6) weeks lapsed the district would be responsible for the costs associated
              with the program should Marblehead remain enrolled in the pooled testing program.

     Ms. Kalpin shared the proposed cost from neighboring district Gloucester that would be associated with
     the program beyond the free six (6) weeks. Dr. Buckey noted that Gloucester had anticipated a total
     overall cost of $65k to continue the pooled testing program.

     A discussion regarding a timeframe for implementing testing and the logistics involved took place.
     Topics for discussion included budget implications, the testing turnaround time and quarantine protocols
     associated with positive pools, the confidentiality piece that would need to be considered if volunteers
     were involved with the testing process and the reporting requirements to both the Board of Health and
     DESE when a positive case was identified. It was also suggested that that testing occur after in-person
     school hours and that EMT’s and firefighters may be able to assist with the testing procedures.
     Committee member Ms. Fox noted her concern regarding how the information presented seemed to
     differ from the pool testing guidance from the state.

     Prior to a motion made by Ms. Fox, it was mentioned by both Ms. Gold and Ms. Taylor that they would
     like to obtain more information regarding the pooled testing process.

     Ms. Fox made a motion to approve the pool testing program participation as laid out by the state. Ms.
     Gold noted that she wanted to be sure there was enough information from the state so the committee
     made an informed vote. The vote was seconded by Mr. Harris.

     Prior to a roll call vote being taken, it was confirmed that consent forms to participate could be sent to
     families the following day. It was also decided that an additional presentation on pool testing would be
     provided near the beginning of the first budget workshop meeting scheduled for the following Tuesday,
     February 9th.

     A roll call vote was taken.

     Ms. Gold-yes
     Ms. Taylor-yes
     Mr. Harris-yes
     Ms. Barron-yes
     Ms. Fox-yes

     The motion passes all in favor, 5-0.

3.   Unit A Collective Bargaining Agreement
     Prior to the collective bargaining agreement vote, Dr. Buckey gave a brief update on his goals. He
     informed the committee that an agreement for all six collective bargaining units had been reached sharing
     that the committee would vote the agreement for Unit A that evening. He thanked MEA President Joan
     Miller for her invaluable partnership during the process. He also noted that with the support of the MEA,
     subcommittees would be set up to address proposed changes to the contractual language of the
     agreements.

     M. Gold made a motion to approve the Memorandum of Agreement for collective bargaining with the
     Marblehead Education Association and Unit A, the Teacher’s Contract, covering the period from
     September 1, 2021 through August 31, 2024 as presented. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and
     seconded by Ms. Barron. Prior to a roll call vote, Ms. Fox confirmed with Dr. Buckey that the vote
     included a five percent (5%) pay increase over the three years and no language changes. A roll call vote
     was taken.

     Ms. Gold-yes
     Ms. Taylor-yes
     Mr. Harris-yes
     Ms. Barron-yes
     Ms. Fox-yes

     The motion passes all in favor, 5-0.

     Ms. Gold asked for a second motion to approve the establishment of subcommittees to investigate and
     report out findings or recommendations to the parties for consideration and negotiations. The motion
     was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron.

     Ms. Taylor suggested using the same committee who negotiated the MOA for the start of the school year
     for language adjustments to the contracts. A discussion regarding passing the current motion and
     revisiting the membership participation piece took place. Dr. Buckey noted that individual members
               from each of the respective collective bargaining agreements may join the committee(s) when their unit
               would be discussed. A roll call vote was taken.

               Ms. Gold-yes
               Ms. Taylor-yes
               Mr. Harris-yes
               Ms. Barron-yes
               Ms. Fox-yes

               The motion passes all in favor, 5-0.

          4.   2019-2020SY Town Report Submission
               Dr. Buckey explained that the district would be submitting a Town Report with some noted revisions
               specific to the importance of recognizing what a different year the 2019-2020 school year was. He also
               shared that he would be including summaries submitted from each of the directors and principals
               highlighting what each of the buildings and departments were able to do with the resources provided
               during the pandemic.

               Dr. Buckey further shared recent survey results submitted by staff, students and families focusing on the
               areas of strength and areas of opportunity comparing results from November through present. He noted
               that an overwhelming percent of students were voicing their concerns with the remote learning workload
               and mentioned the importance of addressing the social emotional concerns of students.

               Dr. Buckey asked for the committees support in working with the administrative team over two retreat
               days during February break to plan to bring students back in combined cohorts five (5) days a week. He
               mentioned that the logistics involved would be sorted out but that given the mental health concerns, it
               was the right thing to do.

               Ms. Gold made a motion to support the Superintendent and principals to create a plan to bring students
               back at lower distancing levels and fully in-person. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded
               by Ms. Barron. Topics for discussion included learning model changes and supporting
               families who would want to switch to remote, consistency with afternoon scheduling and the social
               emotional health of the students and the positive impact that returning to school every day would have.

               Dr. Buckey confirmed that requests for scheduling model changes would be supported noting that such
               changes may require changes in teacher assignment.

               A roll call vote was taken.
               Ms. Gold-yes
               Ms. Taylor-yes
               Mr. Harris-yes
               Ms. Barron-yes
               Ms. Fox-yes

               The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

               Ms. Fox confirmed that there would need to be an agreement with the MEA to which Dr. Buckey shared
               that they were receptive to.

IV.   Finance Organizational Support
          1. Schedule of Bills
              Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $3,410,305. The motion was moved
              by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Mr. Harris. A roll call vote was taken.

               Ms. Gold-yes
               Ms. Taylor-yes
              Mr. Harris-yes
              Ms. Barron-yes
              Ms. Fox-abstained

              The motion passes, 4-0-1.

         2.   Pre-Kindergarten and Kindergarten Tuition-2021-2022 Recommendation
              Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the 2021-2022 school year tuition rates for:
              $3,500/yr for Full Day Kindergarten
              $4K/yr for Half Day Preschool
              $6k/yr for Full Day Preschool
              $5k/yr for Half Day Transitional Kindergarten
              $7k/yr for Full Day Transitional Kindergarten

              A roll call vote was taken.

              Ms. Gold-yes
              Ms. Taylor-yes
              Ms. Fox-yes
              Ms. Barron-yes
              Mr. Harris-yes

              The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

         3.   Introduction to FY22 Draft Budget and Distribution of Draft Budget Notebooks
              Ms. Cresta gave an introduction to the FY22 Draft Budget Notebooks. She walked the committee
              through the layout, what would be expected next and an area she designated for keeping track of
              adjustments/handouts. Ms. Cresta informed the committee that she had included a Food Service tab this
              year so the committee could see how the general fund would need to absorb food services shortfalls if
              the revenue the department brought in did not support its expenses. Ms. Cresta shared that summary
              sheet would be provide at the next meeting and a tracking sheet would be included as the process
              continued. So the school committee could come prepared with questions, it was agreed that budget
              related questions would be taken at the first budget workshop scheduled for the 9 th.

V.   School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
         1. School Name Discussion
             Dr. Buckey shared staff and student input as part of the school naming process expressing that he found
             it important to include insight into the thoughts of the staff and voice of the students. The school
             committee thanked Dr. Buckey for the creative idea to include other non-voting members of the
             community.

               Ms. Gold explained that the committee would use a rank choice voting system to tally the votes with
               the number 5 being selected as your top choice and the number 1 being selected as your last choice.
               Ms. Gold also noted that community results that were although substantial could also unfortunately not
               be taken at face value due to the campaigning that occurred within the community and on social media
               platforms. She further noted that those results however could not be ignored and that the committee
               would vote the name after a short five minute recess was taken to tally their choices.

               When the committee returned from recess, Dr. Buckey shared that the top two choices were “Anchor”
               and “ Brown”. Some committee members shared their final input in favor of their selection and a
               discussion regarding the name took place. Ms. Gold shared that district policy tasked the committee
               with naming of school buildings and a discussion revisiting how the process began took place. It was
               explained that through email suggestions, public comment and other forms of community feedback, the
               committee took all of the submittals into considerations. The committee agreed that other names that
               were brought forth should be recognized and incorporated into the building of the new elementary
                 school. Ms. Barron noted that as district leaders, the committee had been tasked with an opportunity to
                 “provide real change which would bring Marblehead one step further to a more inclusive community.”

                 After discussion took place, Ms. Barron made a motion to name the new elementary school to be named
                 the Lucretia and Joseph Brown Elementary School. A roll call vote was taken.

                Ms. Gold-yes
                Ms. Taylor-yes
                Mr. Harris-yes
                Ms. Barron-yes
                Ms. Fox-yes

                The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

           2.    Review and Vote of Policies:
                 Ms. Gold noted that due to the late hour, the remainder of the agenda items would be revisited at a later
                 meeting. She did explain that policy AC-Nondiscrimination needed to be revised per a recent DESE
                 review.

                 Ms. Gold made a motion to approve revisions to the AC-Nondiscrimination policy to include the word
                 “homeless”. The motion was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Mr. Harris.

                 IHAM - Health Education
                 IHAM-R - Health Education Exemption Procedure
                 IHAMA - Parent Notification Relative to Sex Education
                 IHAMB - Teaching About Alcohol, Tobacco & Drugs
                 FFA - Memorials
                 AC-Nondiscrimination

           3.    Mid-Year School Committee Protocols Check-In
                 This agenda item was tabled until a later meeting date.

           4.    Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
                 This agenda was tabled under a later meeting. Ms. Taylor did mention that through the Safe Routes to
                 School Group, the district could nominate a Crossing Guard in Appreciation of the upcoming 1 st Annual
                 National Crossing Guard appreciation Day. Information would be shared on the school committee
                 website and communicated out to families.

           5.    Building Project Update
                 This agenda item would also be revisited at an upcoming meeting.

VI.   Closing Business
          1. New Business
          2. Correspondence
              Ms. Gold shared that there was once piece of correspondence that community member Ms. Catherine
              Martin asked to be included with the packet for the evening. In response to Ms. Martin’s allegations of
              committee violations referenced in her letter, Ms. Gold read a prepared statement noting that
              “transparency was needed focusing on the continued efforts to undermine the productive and
              collaborative work of the committee and the new administrations.” Ms. Gold further explained that the
              committee took violations seriously and that the allegations of violations were unfounded and insulting.

                After Ms. Fox voiced her disagreement with the way in which Ms. Gold presented a response to Ms.
                Martin’s letter, Ms. Taylor confirmed that a response was required due to the seriousness of the
                allegations referenced.
3.   Adjournment
     Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 10:52pm.



      Respectfully Submitted
      Lisa Dimier, Secretary
      Marblehead School Committee

      Approved March 18, 2021
