                           Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                        Thursday March 11, 2021
                                                7:00pm

                           Zoom Recording ID 980 6839 2490 & Password 615725

               https://zoom.us/j/98068392409?pwd=VzRnZXgwTHpUMElFdmg1WlF0YlZDQT09

       Members Present:           Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

       Also:                      John J. Buckey, Superintendent



I.         Call to Order
           Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:03pm

II.        Public Comment
           Erin Noonan of 15 Beverly Avenue voiced her concern with presenting a budget that would not meet
           the needs of the district. She requested that the committee fund a budget that would not include
           student facing cuts.

           Reece Dahlberg commended nurse, Amanda Rivers for her involvement with pool testing.

           Kim Day of 18 Liberty Road shared her disappointed over a recently held budget subcommittee
           meeting where there were no documents for the public to review.

III.       In-Person Learning and Student Learning Time update

           Superintendent Buckey shared a slideshow presentation for the public to follow along. He explained
           that the DESE and Commissioner recommended phased plan to return to full-time and in-person
           learning would include three phases. The phased plan would welcome students in grades K-5th grade
           back on April 5th, and students in grades 6-8th back on April 28th with a to be determined return date for
           high school students.

           He informed the community that Marblehead’s plan would welcome students in Kindergarten through
           5th grade back on Monday March 15th for ½ days and shift to full days on April 5 th. He further noted
           that both the middle and high schools would return on April 5th for ½ days with a scheduling
           adjustment to full days on April 26th.

           Dr. Buckey reminded the community that maintaining the health and well-being of students and staff
           during the pandemic remained a primary focus. He further shared some statistical data on the steps the
           district has taken to release updated safety guidance, provide professional development, distribute
           personal protective equipment, provide additional technology devices to students and staff and
           participate in new testing technologies to help manage the tracking and quarantining of positive cases.

           Dr. Buckey informed the community that during the recent call with the Commissioner, it was shared
           that the vaccine roll outs were underway and confirmed that educators would become eligible to book
           appointments within the next week. He further mentioned that the Commissioner shared a letter from
           physicians and public health educators in support of in-person learning with appropriate mitigation
           measures. A health study pertaining to social distancing measures and infection rates was also
           referenced.
           Dr. Buckey confirmed that Marblehead families will have the option to remain in a remote learning
           model through the remainder of the school year. A focus of the call entailed closing learning gaps and
           the option for a robust summer programming plan to assist with learning loss. Dr. Buckey did mention
           that the plan for the fall is to return to in-person learning.
      Dr. Buckey informed the committee that no vote to return to in-person learning would be required if
      the Commissioner determined that hybrid and remote learning would no longer be an option since in-
      person would become the default model of learning. He further explained that changes to learning
      models could trigger other changes such as teacher-student assignments. He requested that families
      anticipating a switch amongst learning models not wait until the final moment so that both the middle
      school and high school principals could plan for adjustments.

      The committee members discussed the scheduling changes and how they could impact the students. A
      conversation regarding the use of the letter “W” for withdrawal on transcripts took place. Dr. Buckey
      clarified that the concern with the transcripts related to state reporting and that the principals were
      looking into transcript reporting options to better support students applying to college.

      Ms. Fox inquired when the committee may need to vote a new MOA to which Ms. Gold shared that
      communication was ongoing and would be brought back to the committee as next steps were more
      clear.

      Ms. Taylor inquired about vaccinations and Ms. Gold commended the PTO for securing appointments
      for staff.

      A conversation about the possibility of transitioning grades 7-12th to less than 6ft social distancing took
      place. It was stated that families should have a clear understanding of that possibility as they decide to
      have their students return to in-person learning.

IV.   FY22 Update
      Dr. Buckey mentioned the budget subcommittee meeting this morning discussed next steps in the
      process after determining the prioritized budget requests. He clarified that the prioritized list he shared
      could not include finalized decisions until a number from the town was determined and that more
      adjustments were to be expected during such an iterative process. A budget subcommittee meeting is
      anticipated to be held the following Tuesday with the Town.

      Dr. Buckey informed the committee of budget calendar changes discussed earlier that day.

      Ms. Taylor explained that the dates were selected based around the budget presentation with the Town
      Finance Committee which is expected to be held on April 12 th pending confirmation from the Town.
      She explained that the committee would need to add a meeting on April 8 th to vote the budget after the
      public hearing which was scheduled to take place on April 1 st. Ms. Taylor mentioned meeting on either
      March 24th or March 30th prior to the hearing.

      Dr. Buckey shared the enrollment projection graph Superintendent McAlduff shared last school year
      using the survival cohort methodology projecting a decrease in enrollment. He then shared his own
      enrollment projection the leadership team was currently working on which was projected a bit higher
      than the recently shared NESDEC projection. A conversation about planning for budgeting
      adjustments due to a continued decrease in enrollment of pre-kindergarten students took place. It was
      also mentioned that planning for increasing enrollment also needed to be considered as vaccines
      became available and students returned to in-person learning.

      Dr. Buckey informed the community that Board of Health was taking applications for a Mental Health
      taskforce. The applications are due by March 22 nd and appointments will be announced at the March
      24th Board of Health Meeting.

      Ms. Gold requested that all community members interested in volunteering to support the full in-
      person return of students should visit the website to follow the proper procedure for being
      fingerprinted and CORI’d.
     Ms. Fox motioned to open up to public comment. The motion was seconded by Ms. Taylor. A roll call
     vote was taken.

     Ms. Gold-yes
     Mr. Harris-yes
     Ms. Taylor-yes
     Ms. Barron-yes
     Ms. Fox-yes

     The motion passes, 5-0

     Emily Dewitt voiced her concerns advocating for older students to return to in-person learning.

     Xhazzie Kindle suggested that the district select a return date for high school students instead of
     waiting for DESE to select a day to which Ms. Gold confirmed for Ms. Kindle that students in grades
     7-12th were returning to half school days five days a week on April 5 th and then to full days on April
     26th. Ms. Gold shared the slide sharing the information Dr. Buckey had previously discussed during the
     meeting.

V.   Adjournment
     Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 8:22pm.

     Respectfully Submitted,
     Lisa Dimier, Secretary
     Marblehead School Committee

     Approved August 3, 2021
