                                  Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                              Thursday December 16, 2021
                                                       7:00pm

                                            Zoom Recording ID 506 450 3898
                                  Zoom Recording https://us06web.zoom.us/j/5064503898
     Members Present:          Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

     Also:                     John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                               Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                               Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance
                               Dan Bauer, High School Principal
                               Todd Bloodgood, Director of Facilities

I.   Initial Business and Public Comment
a.   Call to Order- Sarah Gold Called the meeting to order at 7:03pm
b.   Commendations
     - Dr. Buckey read a letter from Richard Kelleher to the leadership discussing a situation at the Brown School
          commending the food services staff on how they addressed the situation.
     - Sarah Gold Thanked all Faculty, Staff and Administrators for the work they have done over the past year.
c.   Student Representative-Yasen Colon
     - Mr. Colon gave an update of the happenings at the High School. MHD High School Football won the
          championships.
d.   Public Comment
     - Jessica Benedetto spoke about the need to increase bussing in the district. She would like to see busing for
          children 6th grade and beyond become part of the budget for next year.

II. Consent Action and Agenda Items
a.   Acceptance of Donation for Wrestling Mat Purchase
     - Sarah Gold asked for a motion to accept the donation of $7664.48 to purchase a new wrestling mat for
        Marblehead High School.
        Roll Call Vote
        Sarah Gold - yes
        David Harris- yes
        Meagan Taylor- yes
        Sarah Fox- yes
        Emily Barron - yes
        Motion passed 5-0
b.   Approval to Declare High School Computer Tables as Surplus
     - Sarah Gold asked for a motion to declare the Marblehead High School Computer tables as surplus.
        Roll Call Vote
        Sarah Gold – yes
        David Harris - yes
        Meagan Taylor - yes
        Emily Barron - year
        Sarah Fox - yes
        Motion passed 5-0
c.   Approval to Declare Facilities Truck as Surplus
     - Sarah Gold asked for a motion to declare 1999 GMC Savana Van as surplus.
        Roll Call Vote
        Sarah Gold - yes
        David Harris - yes
        Meagan Taylor – yes
        Sarah Fox - yes
         Emily Barron - yes
         Motion Passed 5-0

III. Superintendent Report
a.   Marblehead High School Green House Project Presentation-Student Tyler Earp
     - Tyler Ear gave a comprehensive presentation on his Eagle Scout project. The project will improve the outdoor
          classroom space at the High School and will include a greenhouse, replace the existing raised beds and site
          conservation.
     - The committee was very impressed with the presentation and asked questions.
     - Sarah Gold asked for a motion to approve the Greenhouse project with alterations of school grounds through the
          Eagle Scout program as presented by Tyle Earp.
     - The committee continued with a positive discussion about the project. Dan Bauer spoke in favor of the project
          and how it would be able to be sustained by various programs at the High School.
          Roll Call Vote
          Sarah Gold- yes
          David Harris - yes
          Meagan Taylor – yes
          Sarah Fox – yes
          Emily Barron - yes
     b. District Updates
        -    Enrollment Update. Dr. Buckey presented enrollment and how it relates to budgeting. Enrollment is
            trending down in both the district and in schools outside the districts.
        - The committee discussed kindergarten enrollment and class size and maintaining equity among schools.
        - Dr. Buckey mentioned that he sent out the Tik Tok challenge email to the district. It is deeply troubling.
        - Ms. Gold asked about Masking and where the district was with the waiver. Dr. Buckey stated the waiver was
            approved but the leadership does not want to take on policing mask wearing. (the waiver states that if you are
            unvaccinated you have to wear a mask) Dr. Buckey recommends remaining masked in schools until after the
            holiday break. The school committee discussed the recommendation and agreed with the superintendent’s
            recommendation. They also agree that the schools should not be policing masking.
            There was discussion about how the mask information was brought to the attention of the committee and why
            the information was brought up in a Superintendent’s Advisory Leadership Team meeting SALT before
            bringing it to the school committee.

IV. Finance and Organizational Support
a.   Monthly Finance Update- Was tabled until the first meeting in January.
b.   Schedules - Ms. Gold asked for a motion to approve the schedule of bills $2,713,759.46.
     Roll Call Vote
     Sarah Gold - yes
     Meagan Taylor - yes
     David Harris - yes
     Sarah Fox- yes
     Emily Barron - yes
c.   Resolution for School Purchase Card
     Director of Finance Ms. Cresta discussed the benefits of using a purchasing card program instead of a town credit
     card to assist with spending account management while also reducing the number of employee reimbursements. It
     was shared that the card would provide more control with 1) activating and deactivating authorized users, 2) setting
     spending limits, 3) monitoring individual building/department accounts. Ms. Cresta further explained there was a
     cashback benefits and no annual fee. The Bank of Montreal offers the program and the program is widely used by
     other Massachusetts districts and nationwide.
     Ms. Gold made a motion to enter into an agreement with the Bank of Montreal for purchasing cards and to allow the
     Chairperson to sign the resolution on the Committee’s behalf. The motion was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by
     Mr. Harris. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes 5-0.
     Ms. Gold-yes
     Mr. Harris-yes
     Ms. Taylor-yes
     Ms. Fox-yes
     Ms. Barron-yes

     Committee members Harris and Ms. Taylor spoke in favor of the purchase card and how using one would allow for
     more efficient financial processes.

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion Items
a.   Facilities Capitals Request Presentation- The Facilities subcommittee presented the Capital Requests for FY23. The
     items came out of the facilities audit that was conducted by an outside firm. Each item was declared critical in the
     audit. The biggest number on the list is the High School roof. The facilities subcommittee recommends going for a
     capital needs debt exclusion override for the capital needs.
     - The School Committee asked questions and discussed the recommended request. There was discussion about
         Solar Panels for the High School Roof. The high school roof can be made uv ready in the renovation and the
         light department would cover the cost.
     - The committee discussed how the facilities subcommittee is organized. The facilities subcommittee will
         research and clarify how the subcommittee should be organized.
b.   School Children’s Bill, H.926 Resolution Discussion
     -    Ms. Gold asked the committee if they were interested in signing the resolution. The committee agreed that
         they were interested. Ms. Gold asked for a motion to support the Resolution that is stated as such regarding the
         support of H.926 providing pesticide protection for Massachusetts School Children.
     - The committee discussed the motion. It was stated that the herbicide is on the approved list in Marblehead and
         the resolution will not change that. The resolution will be sent to the state legislator showing the School
         Comittee’s support.
         Roll Call Vote
         Sarah Gold - yes
         David Harris – yes
         Meagan Taylor - yes
         Sarah Fox - yes
         Emily Barron – yes
         motion passed 5-0
c.   Park and Recreation Memorandum of Understanding Discussion
     - Ms. Gold brought the MOU to the attention of the committee to make sure that discussions with Park and Rec
         continue.
d.   Subcommittee and Liaisons Update
     - Ms. Barron gave a METCO update. The Family Partner Program has been reinstated and updated. METCO is
         doing their live programs again and the district can get discounted tickets to the performance.
     - Ms. Taylor gave a SEPAC update. Dr. Paula Donnelly is doing monthly listening sessions. They will be the
         third Wednesday of the month at lunch time.
     - Ms. Fox gave a Facilities Update. Ms. Fox attended a presentation by Highland busing. They offered to come
         out to the district again and discuss electric busing and fleet management.
     - Dr. Harris gave a Building Committee update- The committee will meet in January. There are less than thirty
         items left on the punch list. The bottom section of the mural will start in January.

VI. Closing Business
a.   New Business
b.   Correspondence
     The final decision from the Attorney General for the open meeting complaint from last year was sent to the
     Committee. They found that the committee did not break open meeting law and the complaint was resolved.

     The meeting adjourned 9:15 pm.

     Materials Included:
     Acknowledging Excellence Memorandum
     Acceptance of Donation for Wresting Mat Memo
     Computer Tables Surplus Memo-High School
     Truck Surplus Memo
     Eagle Scout Project Presentation
Schedule of Bills
Purchase Card Resolution Memo
Pesticide Protection for Children Resolution
Memorandum of Understanding-Park and Recreation
Open Meeting Law Complaint Correspondence

Respectfully Submitted
Emily Barron, Secretary
Marblehead School Comittee
