                   Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting-Retreat
                                  Tuesday August 3, 2021 9:00am
                                    Glover Elementary School

Members Present:      Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

Also:                 John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                      Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                      Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations
                      Electric Department Representatives
                      MASC Representatives


   I.     Call to order
          Ms. Gold Called the meeting to order at 9:05am and the electric department also called to order.
   II.    Electric Department Presentation
          Representatives from the electric department attended to discuss Massachusetts climate law for
          regulations through 2050 and the interest in setting up a joint committee to address climate
          change concerns. The ownership and use of parcel number 146-33-0 located by Tioga Way
          was also discussed. It was explained that the department is interested in acquiring the parcel
          owned by the school district to reconfigure the electricity that comes into the Town from Salem.
          It was mentioned that substation upgrades were needed in various areas and that the project,
          pending detailed site preparation, could increase reliability and more efficiently process
          greenhouse gas emissions. For the land to be transferred from the Town to the department, the
          school would need to 1) relinquish control and 2) vote for the care and custody of the land to
          go to the Town so a final vote could take place at Town Meeting.

          Ms. Fox made a motion to transfer care and custody of control of parcel 146-33-0 to the Town
          and declare it as surplus. Mr. Harris seconded the motion and the motion passes, all in favor,
          5-0.

          A discussion about the future possibilities of the site took place. Topics discussed focused on
          harnessing renewable energy sources closer to home, more solar energy use in schools and
          incentivizing electric vehicles to help lower greenhouse gas emissions.

          The representatives confirmed the department would reach out to Chairman Gold to coordinate
          a committee. It was also noted that the liaisons from the Facilities Subcommittee would
          represent the school members of the joint committee that would be formed.

   III.   Minutes:
          3/4/21, 3/11/21, 3/18/21 and 3/30/21
          Ms. Gold made a motion to approve all minutes listed on the agenda. The motion was moved
          by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Barron. The motion passes, passes 5-0.

   IV.    Schedule of Bills
          Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $3,799,816.69. The motion
          was moved by Mr. Harris and seconded by Ms. Taylor. The motion passes, 4 in favor with Ms.
          Fox abstaining.
V.    Superintendent’s Report
      a. Homeschooling Revisited-Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy
      Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy revisited the homeschooling process from the
      presentation she gave in late winter. She reminded the committee that, per the Department of
      Education, there would be no remote schooling options for the 2021-2022 school year with the
      exception of medically necessary cases. It was shared that requests for homeschooling would
      be moved to an online platform so communication with families could become more efficient.
      Documents providing evidence of instructional plans will be stored electronically and reminder
      emails to provide evidence of progress will be generated. Registration information will be
      added for students who have long term medical needs. Although no formal vote was taken, it
      was agreed that the plan for an electronic format should be pursued. It was recommended that
      a link be added to the Assistant Superintendent’s webpage.

      b. Superintendent’s Update-Dr. Buckey
      Superintendent Buckey discussed legal service representation and the plan for sending requests
      for proposals. Although no formal vote was taken, it was decided that three firms including the
      district’s current representation would be invited to interview with the committee. It was also
      decided that interview workshops would be scheduled later in the month or early September so
      that a final determination could be made by the end of September.

      Superintendent Buckey provided an update on the Leadership Retreat held at Endicott for three
      days. He mentioned the plan for a book study in which each member will take turns leading
      the team in a chapter they have studied. He further shared the planning taking place for
      professional development focused on multi-tiered systems of support-MTSS. It was also
      mentioned that an LGBTQ presentation will be held in the fall.

      Information on COVID planning was shared and the committee was informed that a decision
      to mask in the fall would be made by August 15th. Ms. Gold spoke in favor of making a later
      determination as guidelines were constantly changing. Other topics discussed focused on a
      recent vaccination clinic, the remediation efforts in place, pool testing participation and the
      individual buildings plans to pivot to hybrid or remote if case numbers increased.

      The following additional updates were shared:
      • Enrollment numbers per building
      • The anticipated opening date for the new Lucretia and Joseph Brown School
      • Hiring updates for an Interim Director of Student Services, an HR director and a nurse for
         the Veteran’s School

      Superintendent Buckey noted a shift in enrollment numbers from Brown and Glover Schools.

      A conversation regarding the potential for a delayed opening of the Brown School took place.
      It was noted that the Building Committee would meet on Monday August 9th to make a
      recommendation for a delayed start or an opening as anticipated on September 1st.

      After a brief discussion, it was agreed that the search committee for the student services
      position would meet the following day, discuss an interim versus permanent role, gather
      recommendations and bring the information back to the committee for approval.


VI.   Massachusetts Association of School Committees Presentation
      This agenda item came out of order as it was originally listed as the final item on the agenda.
       MASC representatives Glenn Koocher and Dorothy Presser attended the meeting to go over
       school committee best practices. Topics for discussion included:
       • Protocols and goal setting
       • Evaluations and progress monitoring
       • Prioritizing professional development
       • Policy overview

       Mr. Koocher provided the committee with a handout focusing on norms and protocols sharing
       it is an informative resource to have. He reminded the committee of their roles to 1) set goals
       2) monitor progress 3) focus on student achievement and 4) watch the budget

       A conversation about public comment guidelines and holding public forums took place. It
       was noted that certain districts set specific guidelines for public comment to assist with the
       flow of the meetings. It was also shared that public forums were not very common or frequent
       and usually held to address specific community concerns or one to two topics.

       Mr. Koocher explained the exploration of professional development around the recent uptick
       in school committee meetings becoming targets of political agendas. He further noted the
       importance of ongoing policy review to address outdated policies/procedures.

       Others topics for discussion included the use of social media by committee members and
       incorporating best practices for use in committee protocols.


VII.   Protocols and Goals
       a. Subcommittee and Liaisons Appointments
          Ms. Gold recommended keeping the subcommittees and liaisons the same for the 2021-
          2022 school year. Ms. Gold further noted the following changes:

           •   Collective Bargaining Committee will no longer be needed
           •   The Park and Rec MOU will defer to facilities instead of the Town
           •   Town side of Fincom representatives will change
           •   Building Committee will continue through school committee until the end of the year
           •   The Reopening Committee will become a Superintendent’s Advisory Committee
           •   The school advisory positions will remain with Ms. Fox representing Brown School

           Ms. Fox voiced her interest with participating on the budget subcommittee. She further
           confirmed that she could participate in public comment during subcommittee meetings.

           Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the 2021-2022 subcommittee and liaisons assignments
           to remain the same as the previous school year. The motion was moved by Mr. Harris and
           seconded by Ms. Taylor. The motion passes with 4 in favor and 1 abstention from Ms. Fox.

       b. Operating Protocols and School Committee Goals
          After a brief discussion Ms. Gold made a motion to accept the protocols as is for the current
          school year. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Mr. Harris. The
          motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.
               It was agreed that self-evaluations would be written up and sent to the Superintendent’s
               Assistant and Ms. Gold by August 27th for tallying areas of strengths and improvement.

           c. Meeting Organization
              A conversation about meeting organization took place and it was decided that the meetings
              would continue to be held at 7pm. Ideas for incorporating a more structured public
              comment section took place. It was recommended that public comment be limited to fifteen
              (15) minutes total with community members being held to the three (3) minute policy
              timeframe. It was also mentioned that speakers could sign up in advance and for those that
              could not attend, they would have their comments added to correspondence.

               Ms. Gold also informed the committee of the plan to use Google Drive instead of Dropbox
               in an effort to better manage meeting documents to which all were in favor of.

           d. 2021-2022 School Year Handbooks
              After a conversation about building start times, half-day dismissal times, clothing equity
              concerns and policy references took place, Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the 20221-
              2022 school year handbooks with edits requesting that policies be linked to the new
              website. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. The motion
              passes, all in favor.

           e. MASC/MASS-November Joint Conference
              Ms. Gold informed the committee of a meeting conflict in November due to the
              MASC/MASS joint conference falling on the same day as the first November school
              committee meeting. Although no formal vote was taken, it was decided that the meeting
              could be held on Wednesday November 3rd instead if the committee decided to reschedule.




           Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 3:19pm.

Materials Included:
Electric Department-Article 45
Schedule of Bills Memo as of 7.30.21
Homeschooling-Proposed Changes Presentation
Enrollment Comparison
MASC-Norms and Protocols
Subcommittee and Liaisons for 21-22SY
Operating Protocols and Goals for the 21-22SY
Meeting Organization and Google Drive Use for 21-22SY
Handbooks for 21-22SY-Elementary, Middle and High Schools
MASC/MASS Joint Conference Schedule


Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved February 3, 2022
