                               Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                             Thursday October 7, 2021
                                                     7:00pm

                               Zoom Recording ID 819 5486 0919 & Password 343421

               https://us06web.zoom.us/j/81954860919?pwd=dGRyTkYxcitaa01uNXNvV0s4UkNzZz09

Members Present:       Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

Also:                  John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                       Stepehn Kwiatek, Director of Technolgy
                       Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent of Business and Operations
                       Deanna McMahon, Lead Nurse
                       Joseph Griffin, COVID Coordinator Nurse

          I.   Initial Business and Public Comment
               a. Call to Order
                    Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7pm.
               b. Commendations
                      Ms. Gold recognized the custodians for their work with assisting staff with moves from other
                        buildings to the Brown School.
                      Ms. Fox commended nurses for longer hours and teachers for moving locations with “joy and
                         grace.”
               c. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
                      The Open House on 9/30 went well
                      SAT testing was held on 10/2
                      Class pictures and a bus evacuation drill took place yesterday and went well
                      The Acapella group recently held auditions
                      Team Harmony, a club focused on ending bias and discrimination held their first meeting the day
                         prior
                      The National Green School Society has been collecting clothing for a clothing swap
                      The first math meet was held earlier that day
                      The Best Buddies hosted an event with the girls soccer team as well
                      A sport update was provided and teams were commended for recent wins
                      The seniors will have their fall formal in the gym due to COVID restrictions
                      Prom will be held at the new event space at Fenway Park
               d. Public Comment
                     Scott Solberg of Ramsay Rd. reminded the community that things are still a struggle and
                        to remember to remain positive while continuing to support staff along with students

          II. Consent Action and Agenda Items
              a. Minutes- 4/1/2021 and 4/8/2021
                 Ms. Gold asked for a motion to approve the minutes from 4/1/2021 and 4/8/2021. The motion was
                 moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron.

                   Ms. Fox requested that typos be addressed and some heading s that were missing be added.

                   A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes with requested edits, 5-0 all in favor. Ms. Gold, Mr.
                   Harris, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox and Ms. Baron-all yes

          III. Superintendent Report
               a. Planning for Success Technology Update-Stephen Kwiatek
                  Stephen Kwiatek, The Director of Technology shared the two main goals of the technology
                  department will be to:
        1) Develop a comprehensive long-term technology plan
        2) Focus on additional support for staff and students via the technology integration specialist

        It was mentioned that a district wide committee would be created to review current technology and
        make a multi-year cycles plan to replace and upgrade equipment and software.

        Topics for discussion included how to integrate STEAM programs amongst grade levels and the use
        of 1:1 devices across buildings. Ms. Fox requested that a committee member be represented on the
        committee when it is formed.

       Mr. Harris commended the department for securing the ECF grant around $300k which will help to
       purchase about 600 new Chromebooks and 300 ipads for students.
    b. Superintendent District Updates
       Superintendent Buckey explained that he updated his SMART goals to align his goals to the
       evaluation rubric so the committee could more easily understand which focus areas were associated
       with specific goals.

       Superintendent Buckey provided the following updates:
        Adjustments to the COVID dashboard
        Automated messaging linking families to COVID protocols when a positive case is suspected
        The Brown School opening-The first day for students will be October 13th with a ribbon cutting
           On October 17th from 2-4pm.
        The Safety Committee will meet on October 13th at 11:30am
        The Wellness Committee will meet on October 15th at 11:30am
        ARPA funds-A prioritized list will be worked on and shared with the Town Administrator
        Director of Human Resources staffing update-Ms. Cassie Bruner started earlier that week
        The counseling center will begin a series of workshops focusing on supporting the needs of staff
           and families. A presentation is scheduled for October 19th at 6:30pm.
    c. Superintendent 2021-2022 School Year Goals
       Superintendent Buckey shared that under his SMART goal number 2, language was added to further
       specify working with the school committee and the budget subcommittee to focus on creating a needs
       based budget, which would assist in delivering an “exemplary educational curriculum.”

        Ms. Gold made a motion to accept the Superintendent goals for the 2020-2021 school year which was
        moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Mr. Harris. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes,
        5-0.

        Ms. Gold, Mr. Harris, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox and Ms. Barron-all yes.

IV. Finance and Organizational Support
    a. FY21 Closeout
        Ms. Cresta provided an update on the end of the year close out sharing that some final year-end
        adjustments would still need to be finalized with the Town. It was explained that a total operating
        budget of $40, 461,420 was expended out of $40, 521,000. She noted that $150,000 was used to
        prepay special education out of district tuition. A list of the total balances in all revolving accounts as
        of June 30th was provided and a more detailed revolving fund report was shared.

        Members of the committee asked clarifying questions regarding the use of one time funding to fund
        recurring needs, the use of kindergarten tuition funds and the use of grant funds to assist in funding
        the new math curriculum. Ms. Taylor requested clarification on the total remaining FY21 budget to
        which Ms. Cresta confirmed she would be sharing a finalized updated version as soon as the final
        adjustments with the Town were made.
   b. COVID expenditures and Elementary and Secondary School Emergency Relief Fund
      Ms. Cresta provide an update on COVID expenditures noting that not much had changed since the
      end of the school year when she last reported. She did share that funds have been used for outdoor
      tents, to hire a COVID Coordinator nurse and to pay some additional HVAC bills.

       It was mentioned that the ESSER III grant funds for $796K would be available to use. The results of a
       survey regarding the options for the state mandated use of the grant funds was shared and the results
       indicated the funds should be spent on learning supports/learning loss above other categories followed
       by mental health. Ms. Cresta explained that the administrative and leadership team would plan on
       utilizing the ESSER grant funds to fund 1) full day kindergarten 2) tutoring services 3) afterschool
       and summer programs and 4) the credit recovery program. A total $562,000 would be put towards
       learning loss. Ms. Cresta also explained that $105k would be used for mental health supports
       including professional development for teachers and emergency health services.

   c. Schedules
      Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $197, 806.94. The motion was
      moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes,
      4-0-1.

       Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Harris, Ms. Barron-all yes
       Ms. Fox-abstained

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion Items
   a. COVID Mitigation Protocols
      An update regarding how the test and stay program has been going was shared. Superintendent
      Buckey informed the committee that about fifty (50) % of students were enrolled in the test and stay
      program across the district. It was recommended that the nurses create and informative video to help
      dissipate misinformation about the testing procedure.

       A conversation about the potential need for additional nursing staff took place as it was mentioned
       that the CiC health was unable to provide the staffing support that was anticipated. After a brief
       discussion, MS. Gold explained that the Superintendent would work with the lead and COVID
       coordinator nurses to determine next steps at which time the committee would rejoin the conversation
       if there were budget implications that may require a vote.

       Ms. Fox made a motion for the committee to adopt a policy for classroom level notifications for
       COVID positive cases.

       Ms. Taylor spoke against voting for a motion to create a policy that had not yet been considered by
       the policy committee and discussed with the Superintendent.

      The motion was not seconded and Ms. Taylor requested that the record reflect that it was not in the
      best interest of the committee to go against procedures and consider new policies or policy changes
      that had not yet been reviewed by administrators, health professionals or legal counsel.
   b. School Committee Evaluations and Goals
      Ms. Gold explained that Ms. Barron had taken the self-evaluation totals and tallied them into on
      compilation to help determine areas of strengths and improvements. Although no formal vote was
      taken, it was decided that the committee would revisit the compilation at the next meeting when the
      committee could revisit their goals and goal suggestions.
   c. Subcommittee and Liaisons Updates
       The Village SAC was held earlier that day and there is a need for lunch paraprofessionals at the
           Village School.
       The Board of Selectmen and Fincom met Monday and the new finance committee members were
           recognized. Mr. Harris mentioned that the calendar for budget planning was being examined to
           determine if the process could begin earlier.
       A policy meeting was held Tuesday and recommended edits will be presented at a future meeting
                     The high school SAC met earlier that day and a focus on social media use and educating students
                      about messaging relating to racism and homophobia took place.
                     Ms. Taylor requested that the regularly scheduled subcommittee meetings be added to the website
                     Mr. Harris shared a video slideshow of the plan for the opening of the new Lucretia and Joseph
                      Brown Elementary School including the date for the ribbon cutting ceremony to take place on
                      October 17th. Final photos of the progress of the new move in ready elementary school were
                      shared. Mr. Harris thanked all committee and community members involved with seeing the
                      project through.

          VI. Closing Business
              a. New Business
                 None
              b. Correspondence
                 Ms. Gold reminded the committee about the information they received about the presentation on the
                 19th as previously mentioned.
              c. Adjournment
                 Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:23pm.


Materials Included:
Superintendent’s Updates
Technology Update
Superintendent’s smart Goals
FY21 Year-end financial Memo and Reports
Schedule of Bills
School Committee Goals
School Committee Self Evaluation


Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved March 3, 2022
