Policy Subcommittee Meeting - 1/12/2021
Front Conference Room
District Office, 9 Widger Road, Marblehead, MA 01945

Members present - Sarah Gold, Emily Barron, and John Buckey

     I.   Call to order: 8:46 am

  II.     Approval of meeting minutes from 12/08/2020. Motion made by Ms. Gold and seconded
          by Ms. Barron. Minutes were approved in a 2-0 vote.

 III.     Policy IHAM - Health Education
              1. Dr. Buckey suggested adding -
                  “Health education will be taught as a district academic discipline across the
                  curriculum.” at the end of the third paragraph. Ms. Gold and Ms. Barron agreed.

 IV.      Policy IHAM- R - Health Education (Exemption Procedure)
              1. Ms. Gold suggested keeping the first paragraph but replacing the last four
                  paragraphs with the same language as Danvers and Lexington Policies. Dr.
                  Buckey and Ms. Barron agreed.

IV.       Policy IHAMA- Parental Notification Relative to Sex Education
              1. Ms. Barron made note that “will ensure this policy is included in each school’s
                  student handbook.” was not in other district’s policies. The sub-committee
                  agreed to remove the language from the policy.

V.        Policy IHAMB- Teaching About Alcohol, Tobacco, and Drugs
              1. It was suggested to add a paragraph that references the district's use of SBIRT.
                  The whole sub-committee agreed.

VI.       Policy IHB- Special Instructional Programs and Accomodations
              1. The sub-committee will discuss this policy at their next meeting because Eric
                  Oxford has some specific updates.

VII.      Policy FFA- Memorials
              1. It was discussed to add- As places designed primarily to support learning, school
                  sites normally should not serve as the main venue for permanent memorials
                  understanding that exceptions might be made by a vote of the School
                  Committee. The whole sub-committee agreed.

Adjourned at 10:31 am
Respectfully Submitted
Emily Barron
