                   Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                               Thursday September 2, 2021
                                        7:00pm

                   Zoom Recording ID 899 5477 8619 & Password 040711

  https://us06web.zoom.us/j/89954778619?pwd=YkdyUVF5bjY5dGtDUXBBV1lRSmN1Zz09

Members Present:        Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Emily Barron, David Harris

Remote Participation:   Sarah Fox

Also:                   John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                        Deann McMahon, Lead Nurse
                        Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance

   I. Initial Business and Public Comment
      a. Call to Order
          Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:01pm and named the members
          present.
      b. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
          Ms. Gold welcomed new student representative, Mr. Colon who provided the
          following updates.
           Yesterday, 9/1 was the first day of school
           Students are wearing masks, desks are spaced with assigned seating and
              lunch is taking place outside
           Sports practices have begun
           The Peabody Marriott will be the confirmed location for the Prom to take
              place on 5/13
           Magic Block, a new fifty (50) minute period was introduced to students this
              week. Students could take advantage of extra help, make up a test or enjoy
              free time in the gymnasium during the new period.

              After the updates, Mr. Harris asked that Mr. Colon share a bit more
              information about himself. Mr. Colon mentioned that he is a Junior who
              participates in the Jewel Tones acapella group and the math team. He also
              belongs to the French Honor Society and the Green School Society.
        c. Public Comment
            Jess Benedetto of Bradlee Rd commended the district for starting a bus pilot
              program and provided some constructive feedback about how the program
              could work best

   II. Consent Action and Agenda Items
       a. Memorandum of Understanding Park and Recreation
          A conversation about how often the maintenance and management of lawn
          mowing and landscaping should occur took place. Superintendent Buckey
       shared that the memorandum was a great start for future collaboration amongst
       the schools and the recreation department and that a future conversation
       regarding specifics would be welcomed when COVID had less of an impact on
       staffing shortages.

       After a committee discussion regarding the responsibilities outlined in the
       MOU took place, it was recommended that the MOU be revisited during budget
       season to address concerns prior to the 2022-2023 school year.

       Ms. Taylor made a motion to approve the MOU with the Park and Recreation
       Department which was seconded by Mr. Harris. A roll call vote was taken and
       the motion passes, 5-0.

      Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Barron, Mr. Harris, Ms. Fox-all in favor
   b. Approval of Custodian Collective Bargaining Agreement 2021-2024
      Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the custodian collective bargaining
      agreement form 2021-2024 which was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by
      Ms. Barron. Ms. Fox requested that the contract be amended to reflect the
      Juneteenth holiday. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 5-0.

      Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Barron, Mr. Harris, Ms. Fox-all in favor
   c. Policy EBCFA-Face Coverings
      Ms. Gold informed the committee that the recommended mask policy was
      edited to reflect language that explains mask wearing is an eligibility
      requirement to attend school. The Superintendent further clarified that religious
      and health exemptions would apply with appropriate documentation.

       After a conversation about DESE mask guidelines and the option for mask
       optional waivers took place, it was agreed that the policy would need to be
       revisited again as further guidance from DESE was shared.

       Ms. Gold made a motion to accept policy EBCFA Face Coverings as presented
       which was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Mr. Harris. A roll call vote
       was take and the motion passes, 5-0.

       Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Barron, Mr. Harris, Ms. Fox-all in favor

III. Superintendent Report
    a. Start of School Update
       Superintendent Buckey mentioned how gratifying it is to see schools fully open
       and operational. He also shared department and principal updates from the first
       day of school.
    b. Superintendent Community Outreach
       Superintendent Buckey informed the committee of his plan to host monthly
       informational coffees that will be hosted in rotating locations and welcomed
       community members to attend.
   c. Bussing Update
      It was mentioned that due to a nationwide bus driver shortage and in an effort
      to not exceed capacity, transportation would be offered for K-6 students only.

      Ms. Cresta explained the district will transport students who live more than 2
      miles from school. To begin the year, just over two hundred students are eligible
      to ride the bus with a wait list of thirty nine (39) students. Two busses will be
      utilized to cover three (3) routes and the district is looking into how to adjust
      the routes for two drivers until an additional driver can be hired. She reminded
      the committee that adjusted bus routes will be posted to the transportation
      section of the website.
   d. COVID Contact Tracing Update
      Superintendent Buckey displayed flowcharts from DESE which were created
      to help better understand the process for symptomatic testing and quarantine
      guidelines.

       Lead Nurse, Deanna McMahon clarified the contact tracing process with the
       Town and reminded the committee members that the testing program is in place
       to help keep schools open for in-person learning and encouraged students and
       staff to register.

       A discussion about the qualifications for the “Test and Stay” program occurred
       and quarantine considerations for the guidelines for close contacts depending
       upon vaccination status was revisited.

       It was mentioned that the consent to opt into the program would be posted to
       the website and go out in the Superintendent’s weekly update.

IV. Finance and Organizational Support
    a. COVID Expenditures Update
       Ms. Cresta explained that the district has expended the 2.3 million dollars of
       the COVID relief funds.
       A report will be due to the state soon and more up to date numbers will be
       shared after the report submission. It was mentioned that the district will be
       expecting the ESSER III grant funds in October and a committee member
       requested a thorough breakdown of what the funds will be used for.

       Mr. Harris inquired about the American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funds coming
       to the Town requesting that a conversation begin with the Town regarding
       funding that could be allocated to the schools for infrastructure needs.

      A discussion about the needs of the schools took place and members agreed that
      a specific list of needs be shared with the Town to help support future requests
      for funds.
   b. Schedules
       Ms. Gold asked for a motion to accept the schedule of bills in the amount of
       $3,957,660.55 which was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox. A
       roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 5-0

       Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Barron, Mr. Harris, Ms. Fox-all in favor

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion Items
   a. School Committee Communication and Outreach
      Ms. Gold started a conversation on how the committee could be more visible
      and available to community members. A discussion about rotating member
      office hours took place. Although no formal vote was taken, it was agreed that
      office hours would be welcomed and forums could be held in the future on an
      as needed basis on a focused topic if the committee felt the need.

      Ms. Fox voiced her concern about two committee members meeting for office
      hours and requested that the committee check in with the Attorney General’s
      office for clarification on how to proceed. Ms. Gold recommended bringing
      ideas back to the committee at an upcoming meeting.
   b. School Committee Goals
      Ms. Gold reminded the committee that they would be evaluating themselves on
      the goals they set for themselves last year. She requested that committee
      members return the evaluation form she will send to the Superintendent’s
      Assistant by 10/12 which will then be compiled.

      It was also mentioned that committee goals should also be revisited and that
      members should bring their thoughts for additional goals or adjustment to
      existing goals to the next meeting.
   c. Lucretia and Joseph Brown School Building Update
      Mr. Harris shared drone video footage of the playground and garden area of the
      new elementary school. Mr. Henry Christensen was commended for his
      assistance with the video footage.

          Final flooring is being installed
          Final painting is being completed
          A thorough cleaning is also being completed

VI. Closing Business
    a. New Business
       Ms. Taylor requested that subcommittee meeting dates be shared so they could
       be posted to the website.
    b. Correspondence
       None
    c. Adjournment
       Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:13pm.
Materials Included:
Memorandum-Park and Recreation
Custodian Contract 2021-2024
Policy EBCFA-Face Coverings
Superintendent Updates
Schedule of Bills
School Committee Goals

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved February 17, 2022
