                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                             Thursday November 18, 2021
                                       7:00pm
                         Zoom Recording ID 506 450 3898
                       https://us06web.zoom.us/j/5064503898

Members Present:      Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Emily Barron, David Harris

Participated Remote: Sarah Fox

Also:                 John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                      Matt Fox, Veterans Middle School Principal
                      Kimberly Grad, Abbot Public Library Director
                      Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance

I.   Initial Business
     a. Call to Order
         Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:04pm.
     b. Commendations
          Ms. Gold commended the Magic Hat Thrift Shop for being awarded the
              Nonprofit of the Year by the Chamber of Commerce.
          Ms. Fox acknowledged the psychologists and support staff in honor of
              national recognition day.
          Mr. Harris recognized building committee member Jackie Belf-Becker for
              being named Citizen of the Year.
     c. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
          Students took a youth behavior at risk survey on 11/3
          National French week was celebrated from 11/3-11/9
          A Booster Bash was held on 11/6
          The Mental Health Task Force held a panel discussion on community mental
              health concerns on 11/8
          The Freshmen attended a presentation on acceptable social media use on
              11/9
          The Sophomore Class and National Green School Society recently held
              fundraisers
          The Service Learning class helped at the Council on Aging for a Veterans
              Day breakfast
          The Choir sang at Abbot Hall on Veterans Day
          11/12 will be the end of the quarter
          Dr. Henry Turner principal of Newton North High School recently presented
              about Standing Up to Racism
          Spirit week is scheduled for the following week
          The Best Buddies, a group focused on ending isolation of people with
              developmental disabilities will host a dodge ball event on Tuesday
          The Sing Free or Die Hard Acapella group will perform Tuesday 11/23 at 7pm
        A Clothing swap will take place before and after the performance.
        A Pep rally is scheduled on the half day before Thanksgiving
        A Sports updates was provided and Powder Puff is scheduled for the
         weekend
       Mr. Colon commended Mr. Lavender for the nice experience rock climbing
   d. Public Comment
      None

II. Consent Action and Agenda Items
    a. Approval to Declare Veterans Library Books as Surplus
       Ms. Gold made a motion to allow the middle school to declare roughly 150 books
       as surplus. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox. A
       roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 5-0.

       Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Harris and Ms. Barron-all yes.

       Ms. Gold made a second motion to allow the middle school to declare books as
       surplus when they meet the MUSTIE criteria (misleading, ugly, superseded,
       trivial, irrelevant or could be obtained elsewhere) for the remainder of the 2021-
       2022 school year. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms.
       Fox. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 5-0.

      Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Harris and Ms. Barron-all yes.
   b. Memorandum of Understanding
      Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the facilities memorandum with the Board of
      Selectmen and designate the facilities representative as the point person for the
      MOU. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll
      call vote was taken and the motion passes, 5-0.

       Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Harris and Ms. Barron-all yes.

III. Superintendent Report
     a. District Updates
        Superintendent Buckey provided updates on the vaccinations clinics, the budget
        process, a calendar and enrollment update, park and recreation information and
        an upcoming Superintendent Coffee.

       It was shared that two clinics have already taken place with the Board of Health
       and Flag Pharmacy with a third mobile clinic scheduled for December 2nd.

       The budget process is underway with a draft calendar and priorities being
       determined. Two listening sessions have occurred and budget focused
       leadership meetings have begun. It was mentioned that a facilities audit to
       determine capital requests would also begin.

       Superintendent Buckey confirmed the final day of school for students would be
       June 21st and the 22nd for staff due to a recent cancellation.
       It was explained that enrollment was down from earlier projections. The current
       district enrollment is 2,611 not including out of district students.

       Marblehead Park and Recreation will use the Eveleth School for some
       programing.

       A Superintendent Coffee is scheduled for December 20th at 8:30am.

       A conversation about the possibility of adjusting the Kindergarten screening date
       took place along with a brief discussion about reaching out to unrolled students
       about returning.

       Superintendent Buckey provided an update on the Sustainability committee and
       the composting efforts underway.

IV. Finance and Organizational Support
    a. Schedules
       Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the schedule of bills in the amount of
       $2,364,620.59. The motion was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor.
       A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 5-0

       Ms. Gold, Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Harris and Ms. Barron-all yes.

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion Items
   a. Abbot Library Presentation-Kimberly Grad, Director
      This agenda item was taken out of order and discussed after the committee
      meetings and outreach discussion.

       Ms. Kimberly Grad with the Abbot Public Library gave a presentation on the
       history of the library and overview of staff members. She explained the
       anticipated timeline for renovation plans for the library sharing there is an interest
       in using the Coffin School as their interim space during the building project. It
       was mentioned that the library would like to move into an interim space in the
       summer of 2022 and renovations would begin in the fall of 2022 and last until the
       fall of 2023. Ms. Grad further explained the benefits of allowing the library to
       occupy the space including building upgrades to outfit the space for libray use.

       Ms. Fox made a motion to enter into an agreement with the Abbot Public Library
       to allow the library to use the Coffin School as their interim space during their
       building project. The motion was seconded by Ms. Taylor. A roll call vote was
       taken and the motion passes, 5-0.

      Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Harris, Ms. Fox and Ms. Barron-all yes
   b. Review of Policies
      i) EBCFA Face Coverings
       Ms. Gold explained that the face coverings policy was edited to reflect the
       district being able to go mask optional once a building has met the eighty
       percent (80%) vaccination status to qualify for a DESE waiver to be able to
       do so.

       Ms. Gold spoke in favor of having the nurses coordinate with the Board of
       Health to confirm building vaccination numbers. Ms. Gold also recommended
       working towards going mask optional by the Tuesday after MLK Day.

       A discussion about the possibility of different schools qualifying to meet the
       mask optional guidelines while other schools remained masked took place.
       Ms. Fox also confirmed with the Superintendent that mid-year requests to
       transfer buildings due to a buildings mask status would not be entertained.

       Ms. Gold made a motion to accept changes to policy EBCFA, IJNDD and
       IJOC. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron.
       Ms. Taylor requested adding “and approved by” to the edited policy in
       reference to submitting the waiver to DESE.

       Superintendent Buckey recommended separating out the policy votes to
       reflect a timeframe in the face coverings policy as he mentioned the
       community would be looking for a date.

       Ms. Taylor amended the motion to included “submitted and approved by” to
       policy EBCFA. The motion was seconded by Mr. Harris. A roll call vote was
       taken and the motion passes, 5-0

       Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Harris, Ms. Fox and Ms. Barron-all yes

   ii) IJNDD Social networking Policy for Staff
        The edits were not discussed and this policy was passed along with the
        discussed edits to the face covering policy.
   iii) IJOC School Volunteers
        The edits were not discussed and this policy was passed along with the
        discussed edits to the face covering policy.
c. School Children’s Bill, H.926 Resolution Discussion
   This agenda item was taken out of order and discussed as the first agenda item
   under the school committee discussion section until Ms. Grad could join the
   meeting to present for the library.
   Ms. Gold informed the committee about the resolution to support state level
   pesticide reform legislation. After a brief discussion and although no formal vote
   was taken, it was decided that more information would be shared with committee
   members in consideration of a vote for the next meeting.
d. School Committee Meeting Locations and Outreach
   This agenda item was taken out of order and discussed as the second agenda
   item of the school committee discussion section.
       Ms. Gold revisited an earlier conversation regarding how committee members
       could make themselves more accessible to the community. She shared
       information from the Attorney General’s Office regarding concerns about the
       possibility of violating open meeting law by holding two member committee
       coffees. It was clarified that no violation would occur if no quorum was present for
       the coffees.

      Ms. Gold also discussed the possibility of moving the committee meetings back
      to in-person in the new year when COVID guidelines would allow for a safe
      transition. Committee members agreed to work towards coordinating a plan for
      meeting in-person while considering how to best include community members at
      home that would be unable to attend in-person.
   e. Subcommittee and Liaisons Updates
       Ms. Fox mentioned the need for new roofs and the option of installing solar
           panels when roofs are replaced.

           Ms. Taylor inquired about the submission deadline for capital requests to
           which Ms. Fox was not certain. Ms. Taylor requested that the date be
           confirmed and brought back to the full committee so the requests can be
           discussed beforehand.

           Ms. Fox mentioned that leftover money form the building project could be put
           towards another project such as new roofs if it was approved and voted at
           Town Meeting.

           Ms. Fox also reminded the committee that the estimated costs in the facilities
           assessment would be higher due to increasing prices as a direct result of
           COVID.

          A policy meeting is scheduled for Tuesday the 30th
          The safety committee met for the first time in many years and a plan of
           priorities was shared
          The school advisory council SAC for the new Brown School met for the first
           time

VI. Closing Business
    a. New Business
       Mr. Harris mentioned an email form a Baldwin Rd resident regarding a downed
       power line from a delivery to the new school and assured members it has been
       addressed. He thanked the resident for their cooperation.
    b. Correspondence
       Ms. Gold mentioned an email regarding masking that was received by
       community member, Emily DeWitt.
    c. Adjournment
       Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:04pm.
Materials Included:
Veterans Book Surplus Memo
Facilities Memorandum
Superintendent Updates Memo
Use of Eveleth School Memo
Schedule of Bills
Abbot Public Library Presentation
Policies-EBCFA, IJNDD and IJOC
Resolution-Pesticide Protection
Open Meeting Law Correspondence
Emily and Don Dewitt Correspondence

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved March 17, 2022
