                         Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                        Thursday April 1, 2021
                                               6:00pm

                        Zoom Recording ID 944 1814 8124 & Password 821673
          https://zoom.us/j/94418148124?pwd=cUhQKzVsd1AyV2xvVDRtbk1oWmNKdz09

Members Present:        Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

Also:                   John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                        Candice Sliney, Teacher
                        Jodi Smith, Juneteenth Organization Representative
                        Dan Bauer, Principal
                        Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance

   I.       Initial Business and Public Involvement
            1. Call to Order
            Ms. Called to the meeting to order at 6:02pm. She entered directly into the hearing for the FY22
            budget calling the Budget Public Hearing to order 6:02pm.

Budget Public Hearing FY22

        Superintendent Buckey presented his FY22 budget sharing the steps along the way and thanked the
        members involved in making it a successful process. He walked the committee through the budget
        priorities such as meeting contractual obligations, supporting technology needs and budgeting for
        curriculum support specialists. It was shared that the final proposed FY22 budget of $41.8 million
        was an increase of $1.3 million from the previous year. It was mentioned that the proposed budget
        would include funding a new Math curriculum and the addition of a Human Resources Director.

        1. Public Comment
           Xazzhie Kindle of Jersey St. shared her concerns regarding one time funding and staffing cuts
           due to school closure.

            Colleen Nile of Bowden St. inquired about how the budget priorities fit into the strategic plan.

            Catherine Martin of W Shore Dr. inquired whether an Assistant Principal position would be
            filled for the space at the new Brown School. She also shared her concerns regarding the use
            of one time funding to fund long term budgeting needs.

            Paul Baker of Overlook Rd thanked the Superintendent and his leadership team for all of the
            work put in sharing that community members should be thankful for all of the progress.
            Anne Simcoe of Marshall St asked that the committee consider not eliminating Allied Art
            Teachers.

            Alastar Connor of Cloutman’s Lane inquired about the funding and planning for students who
            may have fallen behind

            Jenny Armini of Russell St inquired if there was state approval to use recovery funding for the
            new math curriculum
         Alexa Singer requested that funding of critical infrastructure be better funded in future budgets
         with less reliance on money from fundraising organizations such as from the Parent/Teacher
         Organizations

         Sondra Callahan of Naugus Avenue shared her concern regarding nurse staffing needs and the
         reduction in nurses.

         Julie Duggan of Dodge Rd. clarified that the Parent/Teacher Organization was not currently
         funding smartboards as mentioned.

         Mr. Harris and Ms. Taylor thanked the Superintendent and his leadership team for all of the
         work they have put in on the budget. Ms. Taylor also thanked the community for their
         participation sharing that she felt it was a productive process.

         Ms. Fox spoke against using one time grant funding to fund long term budgeting needs.

         The committee members asked a series of questions pertaining to grant funding, enrollment
         numbers, staffing and facilities maintenance.

         A conversation regarding the need for an override took place and Ms. Gold noted that the
         district was receiving more money than they had in previous years and that the collaborative
         efforts with the Town would continue to move the district forward.

         After a discussion about the budget process took place, Mr. Harris made a motion to adjourn
         the public hearing which was seconded by Ms. Taylor. Ms. Gold confirmed that no motion was
         necessary and adjourned the budget hearing at 7:41pm.

      2. Commendations
            Building Based Commendations-High School Principal, Dan Bauer
             Ms. Bauer recognized the DECA Program for their participation in the state level
                competition, the Unified basketball team for their recent win against Danvers and the
                Performing Arts Department for their work in preparing for the spring play.
             He thanked the participants involved with the SEL work being done in the district and
                thanked Nurse McMahon for her hard work
             PCO assistance
            School Committee Commendations
             Ms. Gold recognized the secretaries for coordinating coverage during changing
                schedules and unexpected absences and thanked the Superintendent’s Assistant for
                processing the background checks for parent volunteers.
             Dr. Buckey recognized the unified basketball team sharing that attending their game
                earlier that day made preparing for the budget presentation easier sharing that groups
                such as those that are created is exactly why he works in education.

II.      Consent Agenda and Action Items
         Minutes:
         2/9/2021 and 2/11/2021
         Ms. Gold mentioned that just the minutes from February 9th would be voted and asked for a
         motion to approve the minutes from February 9, 2021. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor
         and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken.
             Ms. Gold-yes
             Mr. Harris- yes
             Ms. Barron- yes
             Ms. Fox- yes
             Ms. Taylor- yes

             The motion passes, 5-0.

  III.       Superintendent Report
             1. Juneteenth Presentation-North Shore Juneteenth Organization Representative, Jodi Smith
                and Candice Sliney
                Teacher, Candice Sliney shared a presentation on the Juneteenth holiday noting the holiday
                celebrates the day the Civil War ended and enslaved people were set free. Ms. Sliney
                explained that the Juneteenth Association focused on dismantling racism and educating
                communities about African American culture.

                 Ms. Gold mentioned that the holiday would be observed during the 2021-2022 school year.

             2. Superintendent’s District Updates
                Superintendent Buckey shared an enforcement order from the Massachusetts Department
                of Environmental Protection in regards to the Green St. property. He notified the committee
                that he and Chairperson Gold would be attending a hearing on Thursday and that a meeting
                would be scheduled with the Town to further discuss use of the property and the citation.

             3. In-Person Learning Update
                Superintendent Buckey shared the exciting news that all grade students would be returning
                to in personal learning by April 5th.
                He further noted that Kindergarten through 6th grade only would be full days and that 7-
                12th grades would be retuning five days a week for half days to begin.

IV.      Finance Organizational Support
         1. Monthly Financial Report Including COVID Expenditures Update
            Ms. Cresta provided a monthly financial update sharing that the district has expended 52% of
            their operating budget by the end of March. She noted that the district was currently breaking
            even on their special education out of district tuition costs. She further shared the percent of
            the operating budget expended for substitute teachers, custodian overtime pay and
            unemployment costs.

             Ms. Cresta also provided an up to date COVID expenditures report sharing a state report as of
             March 29th. She noted that the district would be submitting an application for the ESSER II
             grant in the coming week that would support funding for additional air quality related supplies,
             masks, mental health supports for students and technology related needs.

         2. Schedule of Bills
            Ms. Gold made a motion to accept the schedule of bills totaling $3,315,140.31. The motion
            was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken.

             Ms. Gold
             Ms. Barron
        Ms. Fox
        Mr. Harris
        Ms. Taylor

        The motion passes 5-0.

        Superintendent Buckey recognized Ms. Cresta for being a “phenomenal business manager.”

V.   School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
     1. School Committee Involvement for Coalition for Racial Justice
        Ms. Gold shared that Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair of Board of Selectman would like to ask for a
        school member to join the Coalition for Racial Justice group and sponsor and attend an April
        event focusing on the history of Joseph and Lucretia Brown.

        Ms. Gold made a motion for the school committee alongside the school department to sponsor
        the April event. The motion was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call
        vote was taken.

        Ms. Gold
        Ms. Fox
        Ms. Taylor
        Mr. Harris
        Ms. Barron

        The motion passes 5-0.

     2. Review of Policies:
        BEDH - Public Comment at School Committee Meetings
        Ms. Gold made a motion to accept changes made to policy BEDH Public Comment at School
        Committee Meetings. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A
        roll call vote was taken.

        Ms. Gold-yes
        Ms. Fox-yes
        Mr. Harris-yes
        Ms. Taylor
        Ms. Barron-yes

        The motion passes 5-0

     3. School Committee Website-Push Notifications
        Ms. Barron explained that committee members can fill out a form on the committee website to
        sign up for push notifications for weekly meetings.

     4. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
        SEPAC will hold a zoom conference event next Tuesday April 6th at 7pm to discuss developing
        future readiness skills for your child’s career plans after high school especially for those
        students with disabilities.

        Ms. Fox shared the final facilities assessment should be in within the next week.
       5. Building Project Update
          Mr. Harris shared video slideshow of the progress of the Lucretia and Joseph Brown School.
          He noted that tours would be set up for the afternoons in the coming weeks for community
          members.

VI.    Closing Business
       1. New Business
          Ms. Fox requested an update on the 18 to 22-year-old student population at an upcoming
          meeting.

       2. Public Comment
          Scott Solberg of Ramsay Road commended the administration and the committee for all of
          their hard work with being able to return to in person schooling on Monday.

           Cindy Tower Loewen of thanked the committee for all of the work they are doing for the
           district.

       3. Correspondence
          None

       4. Adjournment
          Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:08pm.

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved October 7, 2021
