                            Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                          Tuesday March 30, 2021
                                                 7:00pm

                            Zoom Recording ID 961 0158 1180 & Password 014259

               https://zoom.us/j/96101581180?pwd=cGRMU0xaUy9iOFJPTWE0K2tvYlgyQT09

Members Present:         Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

Also:                    John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                         Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                         Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance
                         Greg Ceglarski, Athletics Director
                         Matt Fox, Veterans Middle School Principal
                         Dan Bauer, High School Principal

I.      Call to Order
        Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7pm and notified the community that the meeting was being
        streamed to you tube.
        a. Public Comment
             Catherine Martin spoke about the budget subcommittee meeting that was held earlier that day. She
             requested clarification on how budgeting adjustments were made.

            Kim Day also requested clarification on how the budget subcommittee closed an $800K gap down to a
            $300k gap.

            Erin Noonan requested that learning loss and how remediation would be funded be added to an agenda
            item.

II.     Consent Agenda and Action Items
        Memorandum of Understanding with the Marblehead Education Association
        Ms. Gold informed the committee that the MEA had met and voted to approve the memorandum relating to
        the in person learning time for students. Questions pertaining to the use of air purifiers and how positive
        classroom cases would continue to be reported were discussed. Ms. Fox noted that she was prepared to vote
        the memorandum pending legal council approval.

        Ms. Fox made a motion to approve the memorandum with the MEA pending approval of legal counsel. The
        motion was seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken.

        Ms. Gold-yes
        MS. Barron-yes
        Ms. Taylor-yes
        Ms. Fox-yes
        Mr. Harris-yes

        The motion passes, 5-0.

III.    Superintendent Report
        a. Softball Field Group Presentation
           Athletics Director, Greg Ceglarksi shared a drawing of plans to clear out an area near the Veterans
           softball field to provide more room for spectators mentioning the plans included adding gravel for a
           walkway and a chain link fence to replace the mesh fencing in the outfield. He also mentioned that the
           snack shed that was currently white would be painted to red. It was shared that the work and time to
           complete the work would be donated from a community member/group.
      b.   Athletics Spectator Guidance Update
           Mr. Ceglarski explained that due to new recommended guidance on spectators, Marblehead would be
           allowing two spectators per athlete for both teams to all outdoor athletic events. He further mentioned
           that the indoor sports would continue to allow only two spectators per family for all indoor sports.
      c.   In-Person Learning Update
           Principal, Mr. Fox provided an update on the plan for student learning while in quarantine in
           preparation for an increase in cases due to moving from 6 feet to 3 feet of social distancing. It was
           explained that 4-6 students within 3 feet of a positive case would need to quarantine which could
           create a situation in which the school may need to consider moving into a remote learning model. It
           was mentioned that a quarantine coordinator would assist families with daily check-ins to ensure
           students stay on track with their curriculum.

           Principal Bauer shared that the quarantine process for students during the first 10 days back to in
           person would remain the same due to the half day schedule that would be put in place through April
           16th at the high school. Principal Bauer noted that the H.S would also utilize a quarantine coordinator
           while continuing to support mitigation efforts, access to PPE and requests for additional technology.

           Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy spoke about working with Kindergarten through 6 th grade
           buildings to come up with ways in which the district could come together to provide remote students
           with more opportunities to feel connected and get acclimated to the school setting again.

IV.   Finance Organizational Support
      a. FY22 Budget Update
          Ms. Cresta explained that the joint budget subcommittee met earlier that day. She reported that
          reductions in budget asks were discussed noting that the reductions resulted in funding some budget
          asks in alternate ways. She informed the committee that the leadership team had prioritized their
          budget requests into high, medium and low level tiers. It was noted that the position for a community
          relations liaison was being put on hold and contracted services would be considered when and where
          applicable. Ms. Cresta reported that the district budget asks for fiscal year 2022 would be $42, 005,724
          with a budget gap of $331k.

           Dr. Buckey explained that he and Town Administrator, Jason Silva would be working together to close
           the budget gap.

           Ms. Fox voiced her concerns regarding a level funded budget and funding positions and leases with
           one-time funding. She also proposed postponing the hearing until there was a more confirmed secure
           budget.

           Ms. Fox made a motion to postpone the public hearing until there was secured funding for the number
           the committee presents to the public. Ms. Fox asked that it be noted that no other committee member
           seconded the motion.

           A conversation regarding the budget process and the possibility of an override took place. Dr. Buckey
           shared that asking for an override during a school year in which the district was operating under
           COVID constraints and building a new elementary school made supporting an override a difficult
           choice since there would not be a normal full year of operation for comparison.

           Ms. Gold also reminded the committee that additional funding from stimulus funds needed to also be
           considered.

V.    School Committee Communication and/or Discussion Items
      a. Budget Public Hearing Discussion
       Ms. Fox explained that she understood the hearing to be an opportunity to seek clarification to
       community questions and concerns. Ms. Gold stated the hearing is an opportunity for the Superintendent
       to present his budget with an opportunity for the public to participate during public comment. It was
       clarified that the meeting was a hearing and not a forum. Ms. Taylor recommended taking notes during
       the hearing and addressing the questions if they are able to.

V.   Closing Business
     Prior to adjourning the meeting Ms. Fox made a motion for additional round of public comment.
     The motion was seconded by Ms. Taylor. A roll call vote was taken.

     Ms. Taylor-yes
     Ms. Gold-yes
     Ms. Barron-yes
     Ms. Fox-yes
     Mr. Harris-yes

     The motion passes, 5-0.

     Catherine Martin expressed her concern with holding a budget hearing without a finalized number. She
     spoke in favor of allowing the public to participate in the hearing.

     Adjournment
     Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:02pm.

     Respectfully Submitted,
     Lisa Dimier, Secretary
     Marblehead School Committee

     Approved August 3, 2021
