                              Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                             Thursday May 6, 2021
                                                    7:00pm

                             Zoom Recording ID 933 3041 8870 & Password 855208
               https://zoom.us/j/93330418870?pwd=VG9aUEQ0YnFXaEpzZGhxbjBDUEZDZz09

     Members Present:       Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

     Also:                  John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                            Deanna McMahon, Lead Nurse
                            Greg Ceglarksi, Athletics Director
                            Dan Bauer, Principal
                            Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance

I.           Initial Business and Public Involvement
             1. Call to Order
                 Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:02pm and noted that Ms. Taylor was not in
                 attendance for the meeting.
             2. Commendations
                  a. Building Based Commendations-Glover Elementary School Principal, Brian Ota
                       Recognized Art Teacher, Tammy Nohelty for securing a grant from MA Cultural
                         Institute for origami classes and recognized the PTO for procuring materials needed
                       12th year partnering with the American Heart Association for Kids Hart Challenge
                       Commended Jessica Lievense Alexandra Manetta and Taylor Henry for focusing
                         Social emotional learning on disability awareness during the month of April.
                  b. School Committee Commendations
                       Dr. Buckey commended Senior Loeden Rodriguez on the recent press release shared
                         for being named Gatorade’s MA cross-country athlete of the year. Continue to make
                         proud at attends college next year. Rarely celebrate athletic achievement of
                         magnitude.
                       Ms. Fox recognized all staff, teacher and nurses for all that they do which was
                         seconded by Ms. Gold.
             3. Student Representative – Dan Howells
                  Back in school full time for the first time in over one year.
                  The mentor program hosted a meeting for freshman to help them learn the schedule
                  Diligent cleaning has been occurring to ensure students feel safe in the classroom
                  The football team had a recent win against Swampscott to finish their season 7-0
                  Also commended Loeden Rodriguez for his recent award recognition
                  May 14th will be the cultural feast
                  AP exams started this week and will continue into the following week
                  Senior week will be full including prom, the senior show and graduation
             4. Public Comment
                 No public comment

      II.    Superintendent Report
             Dr. Buckey briefly discussed the robust district interest with participating in the Planning for
             Success Initiative. It was shared that Town Administrator, Jason Silva would be the
       representative from the Town. It was also mentioned that meeting times would be alternated from
       morning to afternoon times to not interfere with class schedules. Dr. Buckey shared that meetings
       would be planned for socially distanced in person sessions and planned to be held outside in a
       space with access to technology whenever possible.
        1. DESE Guidance Updates-Nurse, Deanna McMahon
            Dr. Buckey apologized for taking the agenda out of order as he introduced Principal Bauer
            first and Greg Ceglarski next before Ms. McMahon. Lead Nurse, Ms. McMahon discussed
            the recent DESE guidance for the new 3-6ft mask exposure quarantine exemption. She noted
            that the definition of a close contact has not changed and she further discussed the new
            quarantine exemption guidelines as it pertained to classroom and bus settings. A discussion
            about the possibility of a new mask policy took place and Dr. Buckey mentioned the
            difficulty with making early COVID related policies for the fall considering guidelines for
            the Spring were still evolving and changing.
        2. Pool Testing and Athletics Update-Athletic Director, Greg Ceglarski
            Athletic Director, Greg Ceglarski provided an update for Fall 2 sports which recently ended.
            He commended the athletes and coaches sharing that all did outstanding job navigating all of
            the COVID related adjustments. He also provided an update on the pool testing plan of other
            neighboring school districts.

            Ms. Gold reminded the committee of a previously voted motion to mandate pool testing for
            sports participants and shared that DESE’s recent guidance recommends districts not
            mandate pool testing for athletics.

            After a committee discussion, Superintendent Buckey recommended to no longer mandate
            pool testing but to strongly suggest it.

            After Ms. Fox pointed out that the voted motion to mandate pool testing for athletics was
            voted effective as of the entire year, Ms. Harris made a motion to amend the previous
            mandated vote for pool testing for all athletes with Ms. Gold clarifying that it be
            recommended that athletes participate in pool testing.

            The motion was seconded by Ms. Barron and the motion passes 3-0-1

           Ms. Gold-yes
           Ms. Barron-yes
           Ms. Fox-abstained
           Mr. Harris-yes
        3. Graduation Update-High School Principal, Daniel Bauer
           Principal Bauer shared that graduation is planned for June 4th at 6pm for an outdoor
           ceremony with rain dates scheduled for June 5th an 6th. To ensure compliance with DESE
           guidelines, capacity limitations will be considered and advanced sign-up will be required
           along with staggered arrivals being implemented. No food or drink will be permitted at the
           event and social distancing requirements for music department performances will be planned
           ahead of the event.
        4. District Updates
           This agenda item was taken out of order and discussed preceding the DESE guidance
           update.

III.   Finance Organizational Support
       1. Monthly Financial Report Including COVID Expenditures Update
         Ms. Cresta shared that the district has expended 68% of its operating budget as of 4/30/2021.
         She further shared that 29% of the substitute budget account had already been spent. It is
         anticipated that the custodian overtime pay account will end the year in deficit of close to
         $50k. Ms. Cresta noted that the unemployment account was being closely monitored and
         expected to end the year in deficit of upwards of $30k.

         Ms. Cresta provided an update on year to date COVID related expenditures sharing the
         anticipated year-end total would total around $2,000,000. She also explained that the
         anticipated total expenditures did not yet deduct the portion of funds expected from the
         ESSER III grant fund in the amount of $700K, 20% of which would need to be spent to
         address learning loss.
      2. Schedule of Bills
         Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $3,109,281.57. It was
         moved by Mr. Harris and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken and the motion
         passes 3-0-1.

         Ms. Gold-yes
         Ms. Baron-yes
         Ms. Fox-Abstained
         Mr. Harris-yes

IV.   School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
      1. “Planning for Success”
          Dr. Buckey provided an update on the recent launch of the Planning for Success Initiative
          PfS sharing the following:
           Two Sessions will be held in the morning from 9-11:30
           Two Sessions will be scheduled in the afternoon from 3-5:30
           Sessions will be held in person as remote participation will not be optimal due to
              technology considerations
           Stakeholder will be provided remote opportunities to share input
           Applications from community members have begun and the deadline for consideration
              will be May 10th.

          It was mentioned both committee members, Ms. Taylor and Ms. Fox voiced previous
          interest with participating in the PfS process.

          After a discussion regarding committee member participation, Ms. Fox made a motion to
          appoint herself and Ms. Taylor as representatives for the Planning for Success Initiative. Mr.
          Harris seconded the motion and a roll call vote was taken with the motion passing 4-0.

          Ms. Gold-yes
          Ms. Baron-yes
          Ms. Fox-yes
          Mr. Harris-yes
      2. 2021-2022SY School Committee Meeting Dates
         Ms. Gold went over the anticipated dates for the 2021 and 2022 school committee meeting
         dates. A few options regarding September meeting dates was discussed and although no
         formal vote was taken, it was decided that the September meetings would take place on
         September 9th and the 23rd. It was also decided that February meetings would take place on
         the 2nd and 4th Thursdays with the April meeting dates falling on the 7th and the 28th.
           A committee discussion regarding adjusting the start time of the school committee meetings
           from 7pm to 6pm took place. Ms. Fox spoke in favor of the start time remaining the same and
           Mr. Harris and Ms. Barron spoke in favor of adjusting the start time in support of providing
           the administrators an opportunity to end their long days earlier. Ms. Gold suggested revisited
           the start time discussion at an upcoming meeting.

           Mr. Harris made a motion to approve the school committee meeting dates with the alternate
           options as presented. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes 4-0.

          Ms. Gold-yes
          Ms. Barron-yes
          Ms. Fox-yes
          Mr. Harris-yes
       3. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
           Policy will meet the following Monday
           Facilities will also meet Monday and future sustainability will be a focus point
           The Cultural Feast next Friday will be at 6pm at the HS and there will be food trucks
       4. Building Project Update
          A dedication plaque for the new elementary school will be placed in the entryway of the
          building. Mr. Harris made a motion to affirm the content of the proposed plaque for the
          Joseph and Lucretia Brown School with the addition of recognizing the Director of Student
          Service, Eric Oxford on the plaque. The motion was seconded by Ms. Fox and a roll call vote
          was taken.

           Ms. gold-yes
           Ms. Barron-yes
           Ms. Fox-yes
           Mr. Harris-yes

           An interactive video of the progress of the Brown School was also shared.

 V.    Closing Business
       1.     New Business
              None
       2.     Correspondence
              None
       3.     Public Comment
              Sondra Callahan of 25 Naugus Av in Marblehead spoke in favor of the zoom meetings
              and the 7pm start time. She also shared the reassuring vaccination data for students that
              was recently shared form the board of health.
       4.     Adjournment
              Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:04pm and reminded the community of the off cycle
              meeting scheduled for next Thursday.

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved January 6, 2022
