                       Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                      Thursday June 3, 2021
                                             7:00pm

                      Zoom Recording ID 971 3100 6575 & Password 553042

        https://zoom.us/j/97131006575?pwd=SWxCYjJmdFFNSEdOOFA1eWVBWUFRdz09

Members Present:      Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

Also:                 John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                      Sean Satterfield, Principal
                      James Slavet, Psychologist
                      Gina Hart, Adjustment Counselor
                      Chloe Pickering, Student
                      Tess Keaney, Student
                      Deandra Williams, METCO Director
                      Stephen Kwiatek, Technology Director
                      Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance
                      LeeAnn Fairbanks, Teacher
                      Lyn Holian, Teacher
                      Lisa Quillen, Teacher

   I.     Initial Business and Public Involvement
           1. Call to Order
                Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:01pm.

           2. Commendations
              a. Building Based Commendations-Coffin Elementary School Principal, Sean
                 Satterfield
                  Thanked the PTO for hosting the fun run which raised over $18k to be used by
                     the allied arts department
                  Commended the custodial staff for the set up and break down of tents
              b. School Committee Commendations
                 Ms. Fox thanked the community members and staff for helping the district get
                 through a trying year.

                   Ms. Gold noted that she would be reading updates from student representative, Mr.
                   Howells while he participated in senior week activities.
                    Senior week is taking place this week
                    The prom was held outdoors in the parking lot which was enjoyable. Parents
                      and staff were thanked for their efforts.
                    The senior show took place that same evening
                    Graduation would be held the following evening, on Friday June 4th
                    The Biology MCAS for Freshman will be next Monday and Tuesday
                    Officer elections will be held the following day
                    Mr. Howells will provide an end of the year report at the final school committee
                      meeting. He will also introduce his student representative replacement.
       3. Public Comment
           Cindy Tower-Loewen of 12 Trinity Rd. thanked Dr. Buckey for making a difference
             on the social race and justice front while embracing it. All while being a new
             Superintendent.
           Paul Baker of 79 Overlook Rd. thanked the committee for handling a difficult year
             during COVID and commended them for their efforts.

II.   Superintendent Report
      1. Social Emotional Learning (SEL) Presentation-High School
         Psychologist, James Slavet shared information on a survey that was part of a larger social
         emotional learning initiative where staff members and students came together in an effort
         to pilot more social emotional classroom learning activities.

          Adjustment Counselor, Gina Hart assisted with the data collection that would help to
          uncover risk associated behavior to understand how to better support students and
          programming. Over 500 students responded to the survey.

          A presentation by Chloe Pickering and Tess Keaney was screen shared to walk the
          committee through results.

          Superintendent Buckey commended the students for the research and analysis presented.
          Dr. Buckey also mentioned that a follow-up survey will go out over the summer to
          continue to inform for the planning of professional development opportunities.

      2. District Updates
         Dr. Buckey introduced the new METCO Director, Deandra Williams. Ms. Williams
         thanked the community for welcoming her and shared her excitement over working with
         leadership to focus on an inclusive environment.
          a. Bus Transportation Update
              Technology Director, Stephen Kwiatek provide an update on a new bussing
              software called School Bus Manager. Some features of the considered software
              would include 1) a hosted system 2) distance tracking 3) a field trip tool to help plan
              and track travel. A GPS tracker, tablet for applications and a parent application are
              additional options.

               Dr. Buckey discussed the options for sending families a survey to understand
               transportation needs within the district.

               Ms. Fox shared that continued progress should be made towards providing safe and
               expanded bussing to the community.

              Ms. Taylor reminded the committee that the commitment to have a bus pilot
              program for September was underway.
           b. Sustainability Update
              Dr. Buckey explained that the goal for the opening of the new Brown School would
              be the elimination of polystyrene. It was mentioned that the expansion of
              composting beyond the high school was set to roll out prior to COVID and would be
              revisited. Dr. Buckey shared sustainability would play an important role in the
              Planning for Success initiative in the future.
                Ms. Fox shared that Sustainable Marblehead recently attended a facilities
                subcommittee meeting. She thanked them for their supportive efforts offering to
                assist with implementing composting and recycling in other buildings.

                Ms. Fox asked for a motion to fund no more polystyrene next school year. Ms.
                Taylor clarified with Dr. Buckey his intentions to begin the 2022-2023 schoolyear
                polystyrene free to which he did confirm. A conversation regarding the potential for
                increased lunch prices to support a polystyrene free school took place.

                Although no formal vote was taken, the consensus was that no vote was required as
                the decision to open polystyrene free was an operational one. Ms. Fox requested that
                the record reflect that the motion was not seconded.

           c. BikeMOR Update
               Dr. Buckey informed the committee that BikMOR has completed remediation work
               at Green St. with one more meeting on June 10th to finalize things. It was shared that
               the Town has provided a user agreement and a meeting to discuss liability would be
               scheduled.
       3. Retiree Recognition
          Dr. Buckey thanked his assistant for recommending that the retirees join the meeting to
          share 1) what it is they will miss about their position and 2) what they are looking
          forward to during their retirement.
          LeeAnne Fairbanks, a 2nd grade teacher at the Coffin School has been employed since
          1998 and retired in December of 2020. She will miss her students’ thirst for knowledge
          and laughing with students. She will look forward to her trip to view the Northern Lights
          and the opportunity to reinvent herself and life.

           Lyn Holian, Library/Media Specialist retired in March of 2021. She will miss the stories
           her students tell. She is enjoying playing instruments and working with the historical
           society to document historical events.

           Dale Nicholson who was unable to join was recognized for her tenure as a technology
           education teacher at the Veterans School since 2015.

           Lisa Quillen, 1st grade teacher at the Glover School has been employed with the
           Marblehead Public Schools since 1989 and will retire in June of 2021. She explained that
           she would miss the spontaneity and humor of her students and shared some moments of
           memories she held near to her. Ms. Quillen noted she was unsure of her retirement plans
           yet welcomed new adventures.

           Meredith Reardon, counselor at the Veterans School who has worked in district for the
           last thirteen years was unable to attend. It was shared on her behalf that she was excited
           to kayak, garden, hike and play the guitar.

           Dr. Buckey recognized other recently retired staff members, Barbara Hawlena, Peter
           Lawton, Leigh Webster and Principal Donna Zaeske who will retire at the end of the
           year.

III.   Finance Organizational Support
       1. Schedule of Bills
          Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the schedule of bills in the amount of $3,942,334.20.
          The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was
          taken.

          Ms. Gold-yes
          Ms. Taylor-yes
          Ms. Fox-yes
          Ms. Barron-yes
          Ms. Harris-yes

          The motion passes, 5-0.

IV.   School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
      1. Superintendent Evaluation Summative Report
         Ms. Gold highlighted the summative report and ratings that were provided. She went
         through each goal and noted the induvial ratings that helped to inform the overall ratings
         for each goal area.

          Ms. Fox shared that she felt areas of improvement should be more clearly identified in
          the summative report.

          Ms. Taylor thanked Ms. Gold and the Superintendent’s Assistant for taking the time to
          compile the summative and incorporating all voices of the committee members. She
          agreed that areas of improvement could be more clearly defined.

          After a conversation regarding the process, ratings and comments included in the final
          summative, Mr. Harris recommended that the summative be accepted as presented that
          evening and to allow committee member to submit small changes to revisit and approve
          such revisions at a future meeting.

          Ms. Taylor clarified with the committee that no content or ratings would be adjusted. She
          further confirmed that adjustments would only be made to move sentences up to the
          summary section so as to highlight certain assessment points. It was noted that the
          process and ratings were equitable and fair.

          Although no formal vote was taken, the committee agreed to revisit the approval of the
          assessment with suggested edits at the meeting on the 17th.

         Mr. Harris requested that the record reflect that he was in favor of approving the
         recommended summative as presented that evening to which Ms. Gold agreed.
      2. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
          Ms. Barron welcomed the METCO Director, Ms. Williams.
          The RIDES program just completed their final workshop and more will be scheduled
             in the fall
          A DEI mission statement is being constructed
          An equity focused training is scheduled for the leadership team over the summer
          The Unsung Hero’s event will be virtual and information will be coming out soon
          A strategic plan for facilities is being worked on
          A facilities meeting is scheduled within the next few weeks
     3. Building Project Update
         A photo of the driveway entryway of the new elementary school was shared
         A Photo of the progress of the playground area was shared
         A photo of the interior of a new classroom was shared

V.   Closing Business
     1. New Business
        Ms. Fox inquired about the reopening committee and the planned timeline for the
        committee for the following year.

        Ms. Gold mentioned providing more regular updates to the committee and explained that
        the information is regularly brought before the school committee at the bi-weekly
        meetings.
     2. Correspondence
        None
     3. Public Comment
        Student, Anne Simcoe of 77 Garfield St. recommended a fundraiser to help pay for the
        cost of reusable cafeteria plates. She also recommended finding a way to more
        sustainably package lunch trays.

        Catherin Martin of West Shore Drive inquired about the look ahead for the Planning for
        Success process.

        Scott Solberg welcomed the new METCO Director and shared his excitement about the
        Planning for Success process.

        Abby Brack Lewis, of 4 Park Lane and CO President of the Bell, Coffin and Gerry PTO
        clarified that the funds raised from the fun run would be used to support the educational
        needs of the new elementary school. How the funds will be used would be voted by the
        organization at an upcoming meeting.

        Jess Benedetto requested that the committee motion to fund a bus for students that do not
        have a safe route to school.

        METCO Director, Ms. Williams commended the high school students for their social
        emotional learning presentation and recommended incorporating demographics in the
        surveys and survey comparisons.

     4. Adjournment
        Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:27pm.

        Respectfully Submitted,
        Lisa Dimier, Secretary
        Marblehead School Committee

        Approved January 20, 2022
