                          Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                        Thursday March 18, 2021
                                                7:00pm

                          Zoom Recording ID 984 3632 5753 & Password 016661

              https://zoom.us/j/98436325753?pwd=V1Nqc3lJM01wREwrYUFTcEp1QlVUZz09

      Members Present:          Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron

      Also:                     John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                                Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                                Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance
                                Matt Fox, Veterans Middle School Principal
                                Amanda Rivers, School Nurse
                                Greg Ceglarksi, Athletics Director
                                Dr. Jessica Benedetto, Presenter

 I.   Initial Business and Public Involvement
       1. Call to Order
            Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:03 and it was noted that Mr. Harris would not be attending
            the meeting.
       2. Commendations
             a. Building based commendations-Veterans Middle School Principal, Matt Fox
                 Nurse, Andrea Wigoski was commended for tracking over 200 self-reported COVID cases
                 Students, Leslie Dexter and Jared Kaplowitch were recognized for scheduling up to 30
                     vaccination appointments
                 The volunteers in the cornerstone leadership program were acknowledged for all of the events
                     they have coordinated over the year
             b. School Committee Commendations
                 Ms. Gold commended the students for wearing their masks and following procedure
       3. Student Representative – Dan Howells
             Football won their first game of the season against Beverly last Saturday
             School Social Worker, Mr. Eid-Reiner has been holding zooms to reflect on the year
             Jewel Tones came in 2nd in their virtual international quarter final competition and will move onto
                 to the next round
             A food drive will be held the entire month of March
             A scheduling change will happen on April 5th and the students are excited to see their friends once
                the cohorts come together
       4. Public Comment
            Catherine Martin asked that the packets for the meetings get posted earlier than a few minutes before
            the meeting so that community members have access to the information earlier. She also requested
            that more transparency surrounding fundraising be shared prior to fundraising beginning.

II.   Consent Agenda and Action Items
      1. Minutes:
          February 4, 2021
          Ms. Fox noted that a parents name was incorrectly spelled. She also mentioned that the minutes should
          reflect her concern regarding what she felt was a discrepancy with the pool testing guidance from the
          state with what Ms. Rivers presented. She requested that both Ms. Martin and Ms. Gold’s statements
          be added to the record of the minutes.

          Ms. Gold made a motion to accept the minutes from February 4, 2021 with the addition of comments
          made by Sarah Fox. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passed, 4-0.
             Ms. Gold-yes
             Ms. Barron-yes
             Ms. Taylor-yes
             Ms. Fox-yes

III.   Superintendent Report
        1. Transportation Presentation-Dr. Jessica Benedetto
           Dr. Buckey commended Dr. Benedetto for her work in proposing a transportation plan and welcomed
           her to present her vision noting that it did have a fee associated with the plan that the school
           committee should consider.

             Dr. Benedetto recommended beginning a bus pilot program in a neighborhood to bus students in all
             grades that would expand bussing throughout the town. She informed the committee that the pilot
             program could begin at the new Brown School. Her plan included busing routes and options for
             students outside of the 2 mile radius and an option for students to pay for a bus pass for those that live
             within the 2mile radius which could help support the costs of maintaining school vehicles. Dr.
             Benedetto also noted the Safe Routes to School walking safety audit and its findings.
        2.   Pool Testing Update-Amanda Rivers and Greg Ceglarski
             Dr. Buckey shared an update on pool testing sharing data points on the number of tests completed, the
             size of the pools and what percentage of the pools consisted of staff participants. Some information
             on the athletics pool testing was included. Dr. Buckey also informed the committee that a decision to
             extend the program beyond the April 18 th date had not been confirmed yet as more guidance would
             need to be shared regarding the long-term costs.
        3.   In-Person Instruction Update
             Superintendent Buckey shared that K-6th students started back at five days a week as of last Monday
             and things have been going well. It was shared that transportation concerns due to the combining of
             cohorts was brought up and that drop off and pick up plans were being reassessed.

             Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy informed the committee that she would like to propose a full
             day of learning for Kindergarten students that would be non-fee based for the rest of the year. She
             further shared that morning hours would be spent on content while the afternoons would be spent
             outside experiencing curriculum focused on a more hands on approach.

             Dr. Buckey explained that the team continues to plan for the April 5 th in person return and that
             distancing guidelines and the best plan for eating lunch together was being evaluated.

             A conversation about the impact of the case spread due to lessening distancing guidelines took place.
        4.   Kindergarten-8th Grade Math Curriculum Update
             Assistant Superintendent Murphy shared that the math committee met earlier that day further sharing
             that members were not only meeting with vendors to choose and select evidence based curriculum but
             to also model it for other educators. Superintendent Murphy shared that a final presentation is
             scheduled for Thursday. She informed the committee, unlike the other presentations, the curriculum
             being presented on Thursday did include an assessment component. It was explained that the
             committee budgeted a number for a new math curriculum taking all of the presentations into
             consideration since a decision regarding which curriculum to use had not been made as of yet.

             The committee asked clarifying questions related to budgeting, the curriculum spanning two buildings
             and the professional development training that would be provided.

IV.    Finance Organizational Support
        1. Schedule of Bills
            Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $217,757.74. The motion
            was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken.

             Ms. Gold-yes
             Ms. Taylor-yes
           Ms. Barron-yes
           Ms. Fox-yes

           The motion passes, 4-0.
      2.   Student Opportunity Act Budget Plan
           Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy explained that the sum of the funding from the Student
           Opportunity Act totaled $90,690 of which $70,690 would be allocated for a Math Interventionist,
           $10k would be allocated toward professional development for the MTSS-multi-tiered system support
           and the final $10k used for a summer literacy program.

           Concerns were raised about one time funding for recurring positions.

           Ms. Gold asked for a motion to approve the outlined plan for expenditure of the $90,690 from the
           student Opportunity Act. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll
           call vote was taken.

           Ms. Gold-yes
           Ms. Taylor-yes
           Ms. Barron-yes
           Ms. Fox-yes

           The motion passes, 4-0.
      3.   FY22 Budget Update
           Ms. Cresta shared a budget tracking sheet noting the FY21 budget, the budget categories, and one
           time funding that would need to be added to the FY22 budget. She included the budgeting for the new
           Brown School and also shared the area in which there were budget decreases. It was noted that there
           was around $286k to spend before hitting the target budget number. Ms. Cresta shared the budget
           requests in order of priority that the leadership team determined together a few weeks prior. Ms.
           Cresta informed the committee that the anticipated budget was projected to be $42,501,122.

           Ms. Taylor noted the many variables to consider before finalizing a budget number reminding the
           community that the school would continue to work with the Town to address any adjustments in
           funding.

           Ms. Fox clarified that there would be an $800k + budget deficit pending approval of all listed
           priorities to which Ms. Cresta confirmed.

           Ms. Fox recommended the process for the public hearing be confirmed ahead of time.

           A conversation about developing a Strategic Plan took place. It was shared that the plan since the
           summer retreat was to begin a Strategic Plan at the start of the Spring given the circumstances
           surrounding COVID.

V.   School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
      1. Massachusetts Association of School Committees (MASC) and Massachusetts Association of School
         Superintendents (MASS) MCAS Discussion
         Ms. Gold discussed the option to join a petition to waive participation in MCAS testing to which
         Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy responded that the ability to determine where learning deficits
         may lie would be difficult without assessment data. She explained that the assessment data is used for
         staff to inform classroom instruction for the next school year. Ms. Murphy did acknowledge the
         complexities involved with administering the testing during the current learning environment where
         more time on in person learning could be lost due to the testing schedules that would be implemented.
         The benefits and implications with administering testing were discussed. Although no formal vote
         was taken, it was decided that Ms. Gold would send a letter to the state representatives in support of
         the petition.
       2.    Review of Policies
              a. BEDH-Public Participation at School Committee Meetings
              Ms. Gold suggested removing number 6 and adding the last sentence of number 6, the sentence that
              reads, “under most circumstances, administrative channels are the proper means for disposition of
              legitimate complaints involving staff members” into number 3. She explained that it was discussed
              with an MASC representative how public comment functions confirming that public comment was
              not a time for dialogue, debate or discussion amongst community members but that the committee
              could address questions as deemed appropriate. Ms. Gold noted the addition of the sentence
              addressing questions “deemed appropriate by the chair” to number 8 of policy BEDH.

              Ms. Fox requested that the phrase “or by majority vote of the committee” be added to number 8 in
              reference to answering questions deemed appropriate to respond to.
       3.    Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
              Facilities is awaiting an assessment and will meet as soon as a report is available to review. Ms.
                Gold voiced her concern with the facilities subcommittee not meeting regularly.
              Metco students have returned to full day in-person learning
              Friends of METCO will be fundraiser for the Tyrone Bumper Scholarship
              Through METCO Inc, Marblehead applied to the RIDES program which stands for reimagining
                and integrating diversity and equity in schools. The program will go through November and a plan
                will be created.
       4.    Building Project Update
             Ms. Gold shared that Mr. Harris shared that Marblehead Electric completed their work for
             underground power to the new school.

             Ms. Fox also shared the mural was approved along with the landscape budget.

VI.   Closing Business
      1. New Business
      2. none
      3. Correspondence
          Ms. Gold noted the two pieces of correspondence pertaining to the petition to support students and a
          letter from community member, Kate Thomson writing in support of allocating budgeting for a
          communications position.
      4. Public Comment
          Erin Noonan thanked the committee for splitting public comment and the efforts to respond to
          community members concerns regarding public comment. She also spoke in favor of adding a learning
          loss discussion to a future agenda item.

            Catherine Martin spoke about the focus and role of facilities subcommittee members.

            Jennifer Brennan thanked Ms. Gold for discussing the potential increase of cases as a direct impact of
            lessening social distancing as quarantining could impact a lot of families.
      5.    Adjournment
            Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 10:01pm.

            Respectfully Submitted,
            Lisa Dimier, Secretary
            Marblehead School Committee

            Approved August 3, 2021
