                          Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                        Thursday April 15, 2021
                                                7:00pm

                        Zoom Recording ID 958 0114 1145 & Password 686984
            https://zoom.us/j/95801141145?pwd=cjQzZm5IYXRFV0NZc2RzT1dGajl2UT09

Members Present:         Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

Also:                    John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                         Amanda Murphy, Principal
                         Scott Solberg, Presenter
                         Dan Bauer, Principal
                         Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance

   I. Initial Business and Public Involvement
      1. Call to Order
          Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:03pm noting that the hearing on school choice
          would be the first item on the agenda but that it could not begin until 7:05 as noted on the
          agenda.

        7:05pm Public Hearing on School Choice
        Ms. Gold asked for a motion to enter into the hearing for school choice for the 2021-2022 school
        year. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and Mr. Harris seconded.

        A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes 5-0 to enter into the haring at 7:06pm.

        Ms. Gold-yes
        Ms. Taylor-yes
        Ms. Fox-yes
        Mr. Harris-yes
        Ms. Baron-yes

        Superintendent Buckey shared his recommendation not to participate in school choice for the
        upcoming school year.

        Per previous requests from community members, Ms. Fox inquired about the possibility of
        adopting a policy to participate in school choice in an effort to “become a truly inclusive district.”

        After a committee discussion, it was decided that more information was needed to consider
        participating in future years as it was mentioned that there were too many uncertainties
        surrounding enrollment numbers during the pandemic.
         Community members Erin and Pat Noonan spoke in favor of participating in school choice.
         Christy Herbert spoke against participating in school choice due to many COVID and
            transportation related concerns/restrictions.
         Cindy Tower Loewen of Trinity Rd. shared Ms. Herbert’s concerns recommending that the
            METCO program be better supported prior to integrating students from other districts.

        Ms. Gold made a motion that the Marblehead Public Schools not participate in school choice for
        the 2021-2022 school year due to lack of space. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and
        seconded by Mr. Harris. The motion passes, 4- 0 with a roll call vote.
Ms. Gold-yes
Ms. Taylor-yes
Ms. Fox-no
Mr. Harris-yes
Ms. Barron-yes

Ms. Gold asked for a motion to adjourn from the public hearing. The motion was moved by Ms.
Taylor and seconded by Mr. Harris. The motion passes, 5-0 with a roll call vote, adjourning the
public hearing at 7:30pm.

Ms. Gold-yes
Ms. Taylor-yes
Ms. Fox-yes
Mr. Harris-yes
Ms. Barron-yes

2. Commendations
   a. Building Based Commendations-Village Principal, Amanda Murphy
    Ms. Murphy recognized students for greeting visitors with dancing noting the positivity it
      brought to each day
    She also commended the students for their creativity with organizing socially distanced
      activities during recess
   b. School Committee Commendations
    Ms. Gold thanked the Board of the Magic Hat for their donations in the amount of $7k to
      each school
    Dr. Buckey congratulated the Music Department for their 7th consecutive year of being
      named as one of the best districts in Massachusetts for music education
    Ms. Fox thanked Ms. Rivers for her work with the pool testing program

3. Student Representative-Dan Howells
   Not present

4. Public Comment
   Prior to public comment taking place, Ms. Gold addressed concerns surrounding a recent
   posting on her social media account regarding a photo of herself and other committee
   members toasting to as Ms. Gold stated, “the completion of milestones during a difficult
   year.” She further clarified any misinformation being shared in the community and
   apologized for the upset the posting may have caused. It was mentioned that the gathering
   was not an open meeting violation and that some individuals were falsely identified in the
   photograph posted. Ms. Gold’s prepared statement is included as the final page of the
   documented minutes.

      Sondra Callahan of Naugus Av shared her disappointment with nurse Rivers not
       returning to the district
      Catherine Martin of West Shore Dr. discussed open meeting law violations and
       recommended Ms. Gold self-report on such a violation to which Gold responded that she
       already had.
      Jen Schaeffner of Casino Rd. thanked Ms. Gold for her apology. She also noted her
       concerns with level funded budgeting and asked that the committee consider listening
       more closely to the community members who advocate for student budgeting needs.
              Committee member, Ms. Fox shared her thoughts regarding the violation. It was noted
               that Ms. Fox felt that it was not the role of the committee to determine whether an open
               meeting violation took place.
              Ms. Thompson thanked Ms. Gold for her statement and balanced approach to a difficult
               situation. She also asked that the district move on from the posting concern and address
               student focused topics of concern.

   II. Consent Agenda and Action Items
       1. Juneteenth Holiday Discussion-21-22SY Calendar
          Ms. Gold shared that Massachusetts declared Juneteenth a state holiday. She explained that
          students and school year staff would not be affected this school year as the school year would
          be finished prior to the 2021 holiday. Ms. Gold further explained that the school year
          calendar would be affected for the 2021-2022 school year and that the committee would be
          voting on two motions for the Juneteenth holiday.

           Ms. Gold made a motion to recognize Juneteenth starting with Juneteenth 2022 noting that
           when it falls on a Saturday the holiday would be observed on Friday and when it falls on a
           Sunday, it would be observed the following Monday. The motion was moved by Mr. Harris
           and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken with the motion passing 5-0.

           Ms. Gold-yes
           Ms. Taylor-yes
           Ms. Fox-yes
           Mr. Harris-yes
           Ms. Barron-yes

           Ms. Gold made a motion to amend the 2021-2022 school calendar to observe the Juneteenth
           holiday to be observed on June 20th 2022. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and
           seconded by Ms. Barron. The motion passes with a roll call vote 5-0. Ms. Taylor questioned
           the final days for students and teachers to clarify what the dates would be with and without
           snow days.

           Ms. Gold-yes
           Ms. Taylor-yes
           Mr. Harris-yes
           Ms. Fox-yes
           Ms.Barron-yes

III.   Superintendent Report
       1. Superintendent Buckey provided his district updates out of order as the first agenda item
          under the Superintendent’s report section.

           He shared that both the METCO Director and the Brown School Principal position searches
           were underway. He commended Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy for leading the
           METCO Director search. Superintendent Buckey shared the two finalists for the principal
           search noting that existing Principal, Sean Satterfield of the Coffin School was amongst the
           two. It was mentioned that final determinations would be made on April 26 th for principal
           position.
          Dr. Buckey reminded the community that all students would be in school and in person for
          full school days by Monday the 26th and he expressed his excitement, sharing what a sense of
          accomplishment for all the day would bring.

      Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy provided an update on all of the things happening in
      district to help support social emotional learning.
            She mentioned the words of encouragement being shared in classroom on daily basis,
                 which was helping to build bonds.
               It was mentioned that strong second steps programing was taking place.
               Assistant  Superintendent Murphy noted the professional development happening
                 focusing around responsive classrooms.
            She further shared that parent forums would be set up with district experts to discuss
                 social emotional health and academics by the month of May.

      Ms. Fox requested that considerations for medically fragile students returning to school be
      addressed early on as she felt it would help to lessen the anxiety and social emotional health of
      students and families alike.

      2. Social Emotional Learning Assessment Update-Scott Solberg
         Mr. Solberg explained how the results from a November social emotional student survey
         were interpreted and could be used to inform social emotional learning in the future. Mr.
         Solberg explained that the Village, the Veterans and High School students were represented
         in the results. It was clarified that the November survey contained questions that were created
         by adult educators, whereas students created the more recent survey and incorporated
         questions that were created taking into consideration which questions peers may be more
         comfortable answering based on the connection they felt to them.

          High School students Chloe Pickering and Tessa explained that they have been working on a
          more recent survey from a student survey they created for their senior project focusing on the
          social emotional health of their high school peers. It was mentioned that an anonymous
          survey helped to obtain a higher number of responses. It was also shared that the results
          would be incorporated in the future planning for more resources for struggling students.

          The committee commended the work of the students and requested that Ms. Pickering and
          Ms. return to present the results of their survey once they have been compiled.

      3. High School Graduation Update-Principal, Dan Bauer
          Principal Bauer shared that graduation would take place on June 4th at 6pm at Piper Field.
            Rain dates have also been scheduled for both Saturday and Sunday at 2pm.
          Recent guidance from DESE regarding graduation was shared and Principal Bauer
            informed the committee that capacity would be limited to six family members per student
            sitting in pods six feet apart from other families.
          It was also shared that the event would be live streamed.
          Dr. Buckey mentioned that other events were currently being planned such as Powder
            Puff and Prom .

          Superintendent’s District Updates
          This agenda item came out of order prior to Mr. Solberg’s update.

IV.   Finance Organizational Support
      1. COVID Funding Update
        Director of Finance, Michelle Cresta informed the committee about the new ESSER III grant,
        which is part of the American Plan Rescue Act. She explained that the Department of
        Education provided an estimate of the funding to expect in the amount of $796k. Ms. Cresta
        noted that 20% of the grant was to be utilized for addressing learning loss. The forms to
        submit would be available closer to May.

        It was also mentioned that the approval for the ESSER II grants should be arriving any day
        now.

     2. Schedule of Bills
        Ms. Cresta clarified that one of the schedules contained prior year athletic invoices. She
        explained that the invoices were changed to the athletic revolving fund, which did have
        enough funds to cover them for the year-end roll over in that account.

        Ms. Cresta also informed the committee that a restitution payment from a former METCO
        Director had come in. She explain that a refund in the amount of $259 would need to be sent
        back as the payment received was larger than the court ordered amount.

        Superintendent Buckey thanked Ms. Cresta for her transparency with the schedules and
        overall budget related concerns.

        Ms. Gold made a motion to accept the schedule of bills in the amount of $585,771.15. The
        motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken
        and the motion passes 5-0.

        Ms. Gold-yes
        Ms. Taylor-yes
        Ms. Fox-yes
        Mr. Harris-yes
        Ms. Barron-yes

V.   School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
     1. School Committee Goals Discussion
        Ms. Gold revisited the school committee goals with the committee to consider how the goals
        may align with the Superintendent evaluation and mentioned that they should be revisited at
        the end of the year again.

     2. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
         The next Policy Subcommittee would be scheduled for May
         The Budget Subcommittee met with the Town Finance Committee on Monday
         Mr. Harris mentioned that a warrant hearing would be coming up for facilities and
           equipment
         The Facilities Subcommittee will be meeting the following day at 10:30am
         Superintendent Buckey noted what a significant piece facilities would be of the final
           strategic plan
         Ms. Taylor shared that Dr. Solberg presented at the April 6th SEPAC conference series
           event.
         A SEPAC panel discussion will take place on May 12th to discuss the vision for the 2021-
           2022 school year
         The Unsung Heroes event will take place this year virtually and more information will
           follow
        3. Building Project Update
            A building tour occurred earlier that day with the Board of Selectman and members of
               the finance committee
            Ms. Barron shared how wonderful the school looked and commented on the many colors
               that came together nicely
            Ms. Taylor also mentioned how great the mount of natural light within the building is


VI.     Closing Business
        1. New Business
           None
        2. Public Comment
           None
        3. Correspondence
           None
        4. Adjournment
           Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:32pm.
4/15
Sarah Gold-Community Statement:
Before Public Comment begins, I need to address an issue that might come up. Some members of our
community have shared and commented on versions of a photo that I posted on my personal social media
account. The photo depicted me, other School Committee members, and the Superintendent sharing a
toast to celebrate the completion of a difficult budget process. Some have objected to the photo, saying
we should not have been celebrating at all, given that the final budget does require a reduction in several
positions. In hindsight, I regret the photo and agree that the “optics” are terrible. I am incredibly
embarrassed. I sincerely apologize to anyone who was offended or felt that our behavior was insensitive
or cavalier. We got together after-hours to enjoy friendships after getting through a difficult process,
during a pandemic, when tensions are unusually high and we all need reasons to pause and acknowledge
even small successes. We were a small group of vaccinated adults who got together outdoors. Safety
guidance has been incredibly important to me and I also regret that the picture suggests we were being
overly relaxed in those standards.
With that said, I also feel the need to correct some of the misinformation that has been conveyed on social
media. First, our gathering was not a violation of Open Meeting Law. School Committee members and
other elected officials have a right to get together socially without posting an official meeting, as long as
we do not discuss or deliberate school business in any way, which we did not. I have alerted the AG’s
office to the concern that has been raised and let them know I would be addressing it this evening.
Second, some individuals were falsely identified in the photo by those who modified it; individuals who
were not present should not have been called out at all. Third, we recognize that there are certainly pain
points in the approved budget, particularly because declining enrollments forced us to restructure and
eliminate positions. However, it is inaccurate to state that nine teachers lost their jobs. The School
Committee and the Administrative Team worked incredibly hard to maintain as many positions as fiscally
possible, and where reductions were necessary, to place employees in other job openings.


Again, I am sorry for any disappointment or anger this photo has triggered. I apologize for the poor
judgement.



Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved October 28, 2021
