                          Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                        Wednesday May 19, 2021
                                                7:00pm

                         Zoom Recording ID 986 1672 9477 & Password 441713
        https://zoom.us/j/98616729477?pwd=WEo3OENLR2MxWWl3bkVrU2Jyc0N2Zz09


Members Present:         Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

Also:                    John J. Buckey, Superintendent


   I.    Call to Order
         Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:05pm.
         Public Comment
         None

   II. Review of Policy EBCFA-Face Coverings
       Ms. Gold explained that per recent changes regarding DESE masking guidelines permitting
       students to be unmasked while outdoors, policy EBCFA Face Coverings was reviewed by legal
       and the committee would be discussing the additional recommended edits to the policy. She
       thanked the clerk’s office for ensuring the meeting was posted in time for the committee to be
       able to meet that evening.

         A conversation discussing concerns with the verbiage in the policy took place. Ms. Fox requested
         that legal be aware of the policy agreeing with state guidance. The committee recommended that
         certain edits pertaining to referencing mask wearing while on school property and during school
         hours be reconsidered. It was mentioned that according to the way the policy currently read, all
         unvaccinated or vaccinated adults, including students over eighteen years old, would not need to
         be required to be masked or socially distanced while on school property.

         Nurse Deanna McMahon shared her concerns regarding masking guidelines and how certain
         adjustments could affect grade levels differently. She also shared her concerns regarding lunch.

         Ms. Gold mentioned taking the policy back to legal to address specific concerns regarding
         wording pertaining to “during school hours ” for adults and to further clarify concerns regarding
         mask breaks and lunch.

         In an effort to avoid lags in policy adjustments over the summer months, Ms. Gold suggested
         allowing the Superintendent to make changes to the mask policy as directed by DESE guidance
         until the school committee could meet to vote on said guidance. No vote was taken.

         Ms. Fox spoke in favor of delaying the vote until the policy could be further reviewed by legal.

         Ms. Gold made a motion to accept the changes that are outlined in the policy by John Foskett
         with the addition of “during school hours” as discussed earlier in the meeting. The motion was
         moved by Ms. Barron and seconded by Mr. Harris.
Dr. Buckey recommended voting to approve changes tonight so that the student athletes could
continue to participate in sports following MIAA guidance. He further noted additional
adjustments could be revisited at the meeting the following evening.

Ms. Gold asked that the committee think about her suggestion to allow the Superintendent to
make masking policy adjustments as recommended by DESE so it could be discussed further at
the next meeting.

A roll call vote was taken and prior to all members voting, Ms. Fox voted yes and asked for the
motion to be clarified.

Ms. Gold-yes
Ms. Barron-yes
Ms. Fox-yes and asked for the motion to be clarified

Ms. Gold reread the above motion and Ms. Fox confirmed that adjusting the policy to reflect
lunch changes would not be included in the vote that evening to which Ms. Gold confirmed that
lunch was not included.

Mr. Harris-yes
Ms. Taylor-yes

The motion passes, 5-0.

Ms. Fox made a motion to allow for public comment which was seconded by Ms. Barron and the
motion passes 5-0.

Ms. Gold-yes
Ms. Baron-yes
Ms. Fox-yes
Mr. Harris-yes
Ms. Taylor-yes

Emily DeWitt of 154 Atlantic Avenue spoke in favor of unmaking children at recess and spoke in
favor of also doing the same for sports. She further shared that the masking guidelines could be
difficult to follow reminding the committee that community members could become easily
confused with all of the changes.

Teacher, Eileen D’Amour inquired about adjusted singing guidelines from DESE and requested
knowing when they changed as soon as possible.

Ms. Gold read the voted section of the mask policy aloud for clarification.

“Masks must be worn by all individuals inside school buildings (including all schools and the
school district central offices) and on school transportation. Students are exempt from masking
requirements when outdoors on school property, even when social distancing cannot be
maintained. All other individuals who are not students must continue to wear masks outdoors,
during school hours on school property when social distancing cannot be maintained.
Individuals attending school-sponsored events that do not occur on school property are subject
to the masking requirements applicable to that property.”
       Andrew Kramer 7 Clifton Avenue confirmed that attending a game or an event as a spectator
       does not require a mask.

   III. Adjournment
        Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 7:52pm.


Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved January 6, 2022
