                         Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                       Thursday May 13, 2021
                                               7:00pm

                       Zoom Recording ID 956 5376 2137 & Password 700306
           https://zoom.us/j/95653762137?pwd=Tk4yL3ZVR1ZQZXd0V1g4LzJrbElTUT09

Members Present:        Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

Also:                   John J. Buckey, Superintendent

   I.  Call to Order
       Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:02pm.
       a. Public Comment
           None
   II. Planning for Success-Superintendent’s Advisory Committee Membership
       Dr. Buckey named the representatives of the Planning for Success Initiative and thanked Ms. Fox
       for offering her input in how to select applicants in a fair way. The names of applicants were
       added to a bag and shuffled before the representative names were drawn.

        Elementary Representatives
        Reece Dahlberg-Parent
        Mimi Lemay-Parent
        Teacher Diane Babbitt is interested along with one other elementary teacher representative, which
        will be confirmed before naming

        Middle School Representative
        Jeff St. George-Parent
        Tawny Callahan-Teacher

        High School
        Lucy Burke-Parent
        Two teachers are interested and will be drawn at the high school the following day

        Community Members
        Merle Schell
        Cindy Tower Loewen

        School Committee Members
        Sarah Fox
        Meagan Taylor

        High School Students
        Ariel Mogolesko
        Benjamin Kahn

        Town Representative
        Jason Silva-Town Administrator
   METCO Representative
   Monique Loyd

   SEPAC
   Scott Solberg

   Dr. Buckey shared that the PfS process will begin with the first meeting scheduled for the
   following Tuesday at 9am in the field house at the high school. He further thanked all interested
   applicants.

III. Review of Policy EBCFA-Face Coverings
     The face coverings policy, policy EBCFA was revisited to go over recently recommended
     language changes to include addressing the wearing of masks while on school property during
     “school hours and at school sponsored events.”

   A conversation focusing on the specifics of when and where masks should be worn took place.
   Concerns were raised regarding the clarity of the language used. Committee members had
   questions specific to how the edited policy would affect drop off and pick up, sporting events and
   recess.

   With the understanding that the face covering policy may need to be revisited in the near future as
   health guidelines change, Mr. Harris made a motion to accept policy EBCFA face coverings as
   revised on 5/13. It was seconded by Ms. Taylor. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes
   5-0.

   MS. Gold-yes
   Ms. Barron-yes
   Ms. Taylor-yes
   Ms. Fox-yes
   Mr. Harris-yes

IV. Open Meeting Law Complaint Discussion
    Ms. Gold addressed an open meeting law complaint the committee received from community
    member, Jennifer Schaeffner regarding a photo posted to social media that Ms. Gold shared of
    herself with other committee members present. She explained that the committee would need to
    vote whether the gathering and posting was an open meeting violation and report the findings
    back to the Attorney General’s Office

   After discussion, committee member Harris noted that the prepared statement Ms. Gold already
   shared addressing the issue was well received. Mr. Harris shared his disappointment that the topic
   had come to the level it has and recommended that the committee move on from the occurrence.
   Mr. Harris made a motion that the gathering and posting was not a violation of open meeting law
   to which Ms. Taylor seconded. Ms. Taylor also pointed out the proactive steps Ms. Gold took to
   address the concerns and potential violation by self-reporting the occurrence and addressing
   community concerns publicly. Ms. Barron also agreed that there was no open meeting law
   violation and supported her opinion by sharing the definition of the word deliberation noting that
   by definition the school committee was not in violation of an open meeting law complaint. Ms.
   Fox recommended a committee training to further avoid such complaints going forward.

   A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes 4-0.
       Ms. Gold-yes
       Ms. Barron-yes
       Ms. Taylor-yes
       Ms. Fox-no, stating she felt the occurrence was in violation of open meeting law
       Mr. Harris-yes

       Although there was no formal decision made regarding the training, committee members were
       agreeable to the suggestion.

       Ms. Gold made a Motion and vote to meet in Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts
       General Laws chapter 30A, section 21(a) for the following purpose: purpose (3) to discuss
       strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the Marblehead Education Association MEA if
       an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the School
       Committee and the chair so declares

       The motion was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor. Ms. Gold noted that the
       committee would not be returning to open session and asked that all non-committee members exit
       the zoom call. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes 5-0.

       Ms. Gold-yes
       Ms. Barron-yes
       Ms. Taylor-yes
       Ms. Fox-yes
       Mr. Harris-yes

       Ms. Gold entered Executive Session at 7:54pm.

       Meeting in Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A, section
       21(a) for purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the Marblehead
       Education Association MEA with no intent to return to open session.

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved January 6, 2022
