                               Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                            Thursday October 21, 2021
                                                    7:00pm

                                           Zoom Recording ID 506 450 3898

                                        https://us06web.zoom.us/j/5064503898

Members Present:      Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Emily Barron, David Harris

Participated Remote: Sarah Fox

Also:                 John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                      Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                      Paula Donnelly, Director of Student Services
                      Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance

          I.   Initial Business and Public Comment
               a. Call to Order
                    Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:02pm.
               b. Commendations
                     Superintendent Buckey honored seniors Katie Kowalsky and Nicholas Thibodeau with the
                        Massachusetts Association of School Superintendents award for excellence. The students were
                        recognized for the various clubs and organizations they belonged to.
                     Ms. Taylor commended the community for their support opening the Lucretia and Joseph Brown
                        School to which Mr. Harris also agreed.
               c. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
                     Day 0 feedback was positive
                     The math team won their first meet
                     The PCO met on Oct 18th
                     The freshmen class officers had their first meeting yesterday
                     The first day of pool testing took place that same day
                     The National Green School Society lead a cleanup at the Village School earlier that day
                     The senior powder puff captains have been selected
                     The All Sports Booster Scholarship Drive will be on Sunday from 12-3pm
                     A sports update was provided
               d. Public Comment
                    None

          II. Consent Action and Agenda Items
              a. Minutes- 4/15/2021 and 4/29/2021
                 Ms. Gold explained the 4/29 minutes were delivered late and mentioned they could be voted at the
                 next meeting if the committee wanted more time to review them. Although no formal vote was taken,
                 it was agreed that minutes would be voted at the only meeting scheduled for November, on the 18th.

          III. Superintendent Report
               a. Day 0 Update-High Principal Daniel Bauer
                  Principal Bauer explained that surveys were sent out for feedback about the day of service and results
                  were overall positive. 78% of teachers reported that students were engaged. It was suggested that
                  more choice regarding assignments be provided in the future. It was mentioned that 404 students took
                  the PSAT test on the day of service and absences were excused for students visiting colleges for the
                  day. Principal Bauer also shared ideas for improvements for the following school year to assist with
                  the planning for the day of service.
               b. Planning for Success PfS Teaching and Learning Update-Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy
                  This agenda item was taken out of order and was discussed after the elementary scheduling update.
      Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy shared that the first planning for success meeting with a focus
      on teaching and learning took place. It was shared that the working group was established in
      September and the group would begin to focus on establishing a pre-k to 12 curriculum map.
   c. Kindergarten-3rd Grade Scheduling Committee Update-Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy
      Assistant Superintendent Nan Murphy provided an update on the lower elementary scheduling
      adjustments sharing the priorities that guided the development of the new schedule. It was mentioned
      that common planning time and blocks focused on response to interventions were a primary focus to
      help better support staff and students. She further explained that the committee obtained feedback
      from stakeholders which helped to determine the strengths and challenges. Some recommended
      changes related to implementing an additional rotating allied arts block a week was mentioned. It was
      noted that not all teachers had reviewed the recommended scheduling changes so that it could be
      shared with the allied arts teachers first.

      The committee asked clarifying questions pertaining to time adjustments, support staff availability
      and the impact on social emotional learning from the removal of a health block in place of an allied
      arts block. The recommended state framework for meeting time on learning was also discussed and it
      was noted that 5.25hrs of a 6 hour school day was allotted for academics.
   d. PreK Class Increase-Director of Student Services, Paula Donnelly
      Dr. Donnelly explained that due to a recent increase in requests for special education services in
      students aged 3-5 years old, the department would need to add an additional preschool classroom at
      the Lucretia and Joseph Brown School. A teacher along with two support staff would be required to
      accommodate the needs of the students.

      Topics for discussion included the additional cost associated with the new positions, the anticipated
      number of students expected to be in the additional preschool class and space considerations if needs
      increase.
   e. Superintendent District Updates
      i. Substitute Pay Increase
          Superintendent Buckey recommended increasing the on-call substitute daily pay rate from
          $80/day to $110/day. He informed the committee that recent survey results from surrounding area
          districts put Marblehead at the lowest end of the pay scale for substitutes. The increase would
          incentivize working for the district as it has been difficult to attract subs.

           Ms. Gold made a motion to increase the substitute daily pay to $110 a day. The notion was
           moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes,
           5-0

           Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Harris and Ms. Barron-all yes

           Recommendations to increase the para pay rate and to consider hiring additional permanent
           building substitutes were made.

IV. Finance and Organizational Support
    a. Schedules
        Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $593,856.17 which was moved by
        Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 5-0

       Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Harris and Ms. Barron-all yes

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion Items
   a. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DEI Mission Statement Presentation-Office of Teaching and Learning
      Ms. Barron shared the new diversity, equity and inclusion mission statement and explained that the
      committee would have time to discuss the statement at the next school committee meeting.
                   “Marblehead Public Schools is committed to sustaining an inclusive environment that fosters
                   belonging and acceptance. We apply an equitable, culturally relevant lens to students' social,
                   emotional, physical, and academic development. MPS sees the power of diversity. We support
                   proactive allies. We respect and affirm the unique identities of all people across dis/ability, ethnicity,
                   gender identity/expression, language, nationality, sexuality, socioeconomic status, race, and religion.
                   Through holistic practices, we cultivate awareness and agency to grow conscience-minded,
                   empathetic citizens. MPS is committed to an introspective process. We provide ongoing opportunities
                   for learning, reflection, and sharing with all stakeholders.”

               b. Review of Policies
                  The policies were postponed until an upcoming meeting.
                  i. IJNDD Social Networking Policy for Staff
                  ii. IJOB Community Resource Persons/Speakers
                  iii. IJOC School Volunteers
               c. School Committee Goals and Evaluations Discussion
                  The goals and evaluations discussion was also postponed until a future meeting
               d. New Business
                  Superintendent Buckey thanked the cross-country team for allowing him to join a recent practice and
                  meant to commend the team during the commendations earlier in the meeting.

                  Mr. Harris provided an update on some final building related adjustments that would be taking place
                  over the next few weeks.
               e. Correspondence
                  None

                   Ms. Gold made a Motion to meet in executive session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws
                   Chapter 30A section 21(a) purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to litigation, specifically,
                   Boyd-Perry v. Marblehead Public Schools, et al. MCAD 21BEM01943/EEOC 16C-2022-00020,
                   because an open session may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the Committee and
                   the Chair so declares with no intent to return to open session.

                   The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken and
                   the motion passes, 5-0. Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Harris, Ms. Barron and Ms. Fox-all yes.

           Executive Session

           Meeting in Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 30A section 21(a) purpose (3)
           to discuss strategy with respect to litigation, specifically, Boyd-Perry v. Marblehead Public Schools, et al.
           MCAD 21BEM01943/EEOC 16C-2022-00020 with no intent to return to open session.


Materials Included:
Scheduling Committee and Planning for Success Presentation
Pre-k Class Increase Memo
Substitute Pay Increase Memo
Schedule of Bills
DEI Mission Statement

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved March 3, 2022
