                                  Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                              Thursday September 23, 2021
                                                        7:00pm

                                  Zoom Recording ID 839 3363 2920 & Password 530729

        https://us06web.zoom.us/j/83933632920?pwd=NnZwa3JGZEFDNFFQVExxVkc3YTRQUT09


Members Present:     Sarah Gold, Emily Barron, David Harris
Members Absent:      Meagan Taylor
Remote Participants: Sarah Fox

Also:                   John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                        Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance
                        Dan Bauer, High School Principal


           I.   Initial Business and Public Comment
                a. Call to Order
                     Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:00pm
                b. Commendations
                     Mr. Harris commended all district staff for supporting the transition back to full time in person learning.
                c. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
                      The high School Open House will be 9/30 from 6-8:30pm
                      The high school recently welcomed exchange students and new band teacher
                      Class of 2025 elections will take place on 9/29
                      ALICE training occurred during the new magic blocks on 9/15
                      A club fair was scheduled the previous day during magic block
                      The first PCO meeting was held on 9/13
                      The North Shore Rovers will visit MHS on Saturday
                      The first home football game will be Friday against North Andover
                      The Day “0”, a day of volunteer service for freshmen will be on 10/13.
                         sophomores and juniors can prepare for the PSATs or participate in the day of service and seniors
                         will have the opportunity for a day of college preparation with a focus on future planning
                      A Holocaust Symposium is scheduled 10/13
                      The high school SAC will meet on Thursday at 3pm beginning on 10/7
                      The Senior Class is working on a fall event and planning early for prom and end of year events
                d. Public Comment
                     No public comment

           II. Superintendent Report
               a. High School Updates-Principal Daniel Bauer
                   Recognized three National Merit Scholarship Semi-Finalists Timothy Clay, Laurence Earhartd and
                       Jeffrey Lederman and commended six other students Alexis Earp, Julia Greenway, Ella Kramer,
                       Grace Miller, Anne Sheridan and Brooke Wager.
                   The guidance suite is undergoing remodeling to become a college and career center
                   The Innovative Pathway Planning Grant in the amount of $24,300 is available and designed to
                       provide opportunities to align curriculum for student success after graduation.
                   The After Dark Program is a Partnership with Essex Tech. Currently four (4) students are enrolled
                       and bussed to the school in afternoons where they will receive over 900 hours of technical training
                   As mentioned by the student representative, Day “0”, a day of service is scheduled for 10/13
         To help meet the time on learning requirement, study hall during the final block will be removed
          beginning with the 2022-2023 school year.
   b. Superintendent District Updates
      Prior to discussing the dashboard metrics, Superintendent Buckey provided an update on the discussion
      with the Town regarding the use of American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funds. He also mentioned that a
      Superintendent hosted coffee is scheduled for Friday September 24th at 8:30am at the high school.

       Superintendent Buckey also informed the committee of a recent TikTok challenge encouraging students
       to vandalize bathrooms and reminded community members to educate their children regarding the use of
       social media.

      Dashboard metrics
      It was mentioned that COVID positive cases would be updated to a dashboard for tracking by the lead
      nurse. The vaccination rates per building were shared and a conversation regarding the start date for
      large scale testing took place.
   c. Planning for Success Update
      Superintendent Buckey thanked Ruth Gilbert for leading the team through the Planning for Success
      Process which helped identify the areas of improvement pertaining to 1) Teaching and Learning 2)
      Professional Culture 3) Diversity Equity and Inclusion 4) Technology 5) Facilities and Operations. The
      objectives for each area of improvement were mentioned and the initiatives the administration anticipates
      accomplishing by June of 2021 were also shared. It was noted that the initiatives would act as a guide in
      developing the FY23 budget.
   d. Superintendent 2021-2022 School Year Goals
      Superintendent Buckey shared his SMART goals for the 2021-2022 school year. He shared a
      presentation specifying the four goal areas consisting of two district improvement goals, one professional
      practice goal and a student learning goal.

       Ms. Gold requested that each goal be clearly identified to the standard it applies to when providing
       updates to the committee. Ms. Fox requested a budget goal to which Ms. Barron noted that a budget
       focused goal was listed under the professional practice goal, goal number 2.

III. Finance and Organizational Support
     a. Schedule of Bills
         Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the schedule of bills in the amount of $2,988,679.80.
         The motion was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken and the
         motion passes, 4-0.

       Ms. Gold, Mr. Harris, Ms. Barron and Ms. Fox-all in favor.

IV. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion Items
    a. Policy EBCFA Face Coverings Discussion
       Due to COVID positive cases continuing to rise even with masking and social distancing guidelines
       being followed, it was recommended by Superintendent Buckey to extend the mask mandate until
       November 1st. Although no formal vote was taken, it was agreed that no other information was available
       to decide otherwise. It was also noted that as the policy states, “the policy remains in place until
       rescinded.”

      A conversation regarding increasing COVID positive numbers, state guidelines, and the option to apply
      for DESE waivers to go mask optional in relation to the percent of vaccinated populations/buildings took
      place.
   b. Subcommittee and Liaisons Updates
       A budget meeting was held on Tuesday 9/21. Budget subcommittee meetings will be held on the
          second Thursday of every month in the mornings before 9am.
                     The Facilities Subcommittee will meet the first Monday of the month with the first meeting
                      scheduled for 10/4/21.
                     The Policy Subcommittee will meet the first Tuesday of the month meeting in person at 8:15am
                     Ms. Fox requested that a safety meeting be scheduled in the near future and Ms. Gold mentioned also
                      scheduling a wellness meeting.
                     A walk through of the new elementary school will take place the following day and a certificate of
                      occupancy is expected. Staff will move items to the new elementary school on Saturday 10/2 and
                      Saturday 10/9. Staff will be able to enter the building on 10/4 and the first day for students will be
                      10/13/21. Mr. Harris shared that a ribbon cutting will take place on 10/17.
                     A photo of the interior of the media center/library in the new school was shared.

                 Ms. Fox voiced her interest in joining the K-3 planning group and sought committee support.
              c. Subcommittee Meeting Dates Discussion
                 This agenda item was discussed under the updates item.

           V. Closing Business
              a. New Business
                 Ms. Barron inquired about school committee self-evaluation submissions and the next steps for
                 compiling. Ms. Gold shared that not all committee members submitted the evaluations and that due to the
                 delay, the compilation would need to be revisited at a future meeting.

                 Ms. Fox shared that WBUR was hosting and essay contest for school age students entitled “In Their Own
                 Words” through October 1st. The contest was COVID focused.
              b. Correspondence
                 Ms. Gold shared a piece of correspondence from a parent of an elementary student sharing the impact
                 mask wearing has on classrooms and close contacts after a recent experience with a COVID positive
                 case. She noted that the parent references the positive impact the mitigation protocols play in lessening
                 the spread of the virus.

                 Ms. Gold also shared an email from Kimberly Grad from the Marblehead Library inquiring about the use
                 of the Coffin School as an interim library space when the library would undergo renovations in late
                 winter of 2022. It was mentioned that Ms. Grad would be invited to join the committee for a future
                 meeting to further discuss the request.
                 Ms. Gold also reminded the committee of the plan to discuss a facilities MOA with the Town.
              c. Adjournment
                 Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 8:56pm.

Materials Included:
High School Memo
Superintendent’s Memo
Mask Recommendation Memo
Planning for Success PfS Outline
Superintendent’s Goals
Schedule of Bills
Policy EBCFA-Face Coverings
Facilities Assessment
Abbot Public Library Correspondence


Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved February 17, 2022
