                           Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                         Thursday March 4, 2021
                                                7:00pm

                           Zoom Recording ID 924 3944 2187 & Password 756412
              https://zoom.us/j/92439442187?pwd=MWJOV1ZpaUdkWXZUelJTZkpjQktRZz09

     Members Present:             Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

     Also:                        John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                                  Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                                  Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance
                                  Amanda Rivers, School Nurse
                                  Principals:
                                  Donna Zaeske, Matt Fox and Dan Bauer

I.   Initial Business and Public Involvement
     1. Call to Order
           Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:03pm.
           a. Statement from the Chair
              Ms. Gold read a prepared statement revisiting the school closure date of March 13 th 2020. She
              acknowledged the difficult year brought about by COVID and commended the frontline workers,
              educators, community members and families that navigated the uncertain time. Ms. Gold asked for
              civil community support going forward as the school administrators and committee members
              worked to make decisions that were in the best interests of the students and staff.
     2. Commendations
           a. Building Based Commendations-Eveleth School, Principal Donna Zaeske
              Principal Zaeske commended the Eveleth staff for the supportive school environment they have
              created which she felt created “the perfect experience for incoming families experiencing school
              for the first time.”

                Principal Zaeske also highlighted the work of all of the paraprofessionals throughout the pandemic
                individually recognizing each of their strengths as an educator.
             b. School Committee Commendations
                Ms. Fox commended volunteers in the community scheduling vaccine appointments for educators.

                Principal Bauer commended the group Growing Together for reaching out to the K-6th grade
                students once a week via zoom to coordinate experiences like zoom yoga.

                Ms. Gold also commended the coordinators of the Family Feud zoom night. Mr. Bauer thanked
                the class advisors for organizing the event.

              Ms. Taylor reminded the committee of crossing guard appreciation month sharing that
              nominations would close March 24th.
     3.   Student Representative – Dan Howells
            Family Feud was a success for being new and was very engaging.
            A survey was sent out last week discussing current scheduling and students appreciated being able
              to share their input.
            Senior Project internships are underway and examples of the types of internships students would
              participate in were shared. Mr. Howells noted all of the great opportunities available to students.
     4.   Public Comment
           Ms. Gold noted that public comment would take place at both the beginning and end of the meeting.
            Kim Day of 18 Liberty Rd. thanked the schools for participating in pool testing and encouraged
              the committee to mandate pool testing for athletes.
              Jennifer Eaton spoke on behalf of the SEPAC community and invited the school committee to
                attend their next conference series scheduled for Tuesday March 9 th at 7pm which will cover peer
                relationships.
             Scott Solberg of 1 Ramsy Rd. thanked Ms. Gold for her statement to “reorient the community.”
              He also commended the educators for working to get the classrooms ready for the return of
              students. Mr. Solberg commended the work of the SEL educators noting what a testament of
              positive energy it was taking place in the community during such an uncertain time.
             Alstar Connor spoke about concerns related to budgeting for additional unforeseen costs
              associated with building upkeep, technology, and student support services.
             Emily Dewitt thanked the community members for booking vaccination appointments for
              educators. She reminded the committee that parents were willing and able to help the schools.

 II.   Consent Agenda and Action Items
       1. Minutes:
          February 4, 2021
           Ms. Gold noted that February              4th   minutes   would     be   voted at     the   next      meeting

III.   Superintendent Report
       Assistant Superintendent Nan Murphy explained that the principals would be reaching out to PTO
       presidents to create online sign up calendars to manage and organize volunteering hours.

       Ms. Murphy also shared that the Boosters would be fundraising to assist with the renting of tents for
       covered outdoor classroom space. She informed the community that tent rentals for all six schools from
       mid-March through the end of May would be close to 100k dollars.

       Ms. Fox inquired about purchasing tents instead of renting them to which Ms. Murphy confirmed the
       concern with the flammable materials used to make the tents noting that not many companies the schools
       could purchase from sold tents up to the schools requirements and budget.
        1. Pool Testing Update
            a. Sports-Pool Testing Participation
             Nurse, Amanda Rivers started pooled testing on Monday and shared that she was able to visit all of
             the elementary schools and that the students were able to be swabbed within under a minute with
             little disruption to class time. She informed the committee that up to about one third of the student
             population was registered to participate. It was explained that mandating testing for sports was able
             to be done since sports were voluntary. It was also explained that testing could only occur on
             Monday through Wednesday due to courier service pick up. Ms. Rivers provided examples of how
             testing for athletes could be completed.

             A discussion about testing students that participate in other after school activities took place.

             As Ms. Gold began asking for a motion, Ms. Fox clarified that the existing motion voted at a
             previous meeting would need to be amended instead of a new motion suggested. A discussion about
             how to procedural vote for either an amended motion or a new motion took place.

             Ms. Taylor made a motion to amend the previous motion to mandate that participation in school
             athletics be contingent upon participation in the pool testing program as defined.

             The motion was moved by Ms. Barron and seconded by Mr. Harris
             Mr. Ceglarski confirmed whether coaches would be included in the mandate to which Ms. Fox
             clarified that staff cannot be mandated to participate in testing.

             A roll call vote was taken.

             Ms. Gold-yes
             Ms. Taylor-yes
             Ms. Barron-yes
      Ms. Fox-yes
      Mr. Harris-yes

      The motion passes 5-0

     A discussion regarding an effective date for the testing mandate took place.

     Ms. Gold asked for a second motion to allow for families to have until Wednesday, March 10th to
     enroll in the pool testing program in order to continue with athletics. The motion was moved by Ms.
     Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor. A roll call vote was taken.

     Ms. Gold-yes
     Ms. Taylor-yes
     Ms. Fox-yes
     Ms. Barron-yes
     Mr. Harris-yes

     The motion passes 5-0.
2.   Learning Model Update
     The high school and middle school principals, Mr. Bauer and Mr. Fox shared a presentation of the
     compiled mixed data from a recent survey that was sent out to parents and students regarding the
     current hybrid learning model and the am/pm learning model that was being proposed. It was shared
     the four questions for consideration focused on 1) if parents and students liked the current hybrid
     learning model, 2) if parents and students preferred the current hybrid learning model over the one
     being proposed, 3) if learning models would change for families if the am/pm model was proposed
     and 4) if learning models would change if social distancing was lessened from the 6ft model to a 3ft
     model. It was noted that parents and students shared differing opinions regarding the survey and that
     most students preferred to remain in the current hybrid model. It was also of significance to note that
     many families reported that they would switch to remote learning should social distancing within the
     schools be lessened.

     Ms. Gold thanked the principals for their presentation and mentioned that whichever decision was
     made, going forward the committee should remain mindful of too many instructional changes through
     the rest of the year due to the amount of disruption it could cause in routines. Ms. Fox mentioned
     supporting the students’ decisions which would ultimately support their mental health.

     Superintendent Buckey recommended staying with the current model until April 5th and to revisit as
     more information becomes available from the Commissioner, the Governor, and the Board of Health
     concerning the virus and vaccines that may become available.

     Ms. Taylor requested that the committee consider committing getting the students back five full days
     k-12 with a goal date around the return. She suggested that April 5 th be the goal date due to the
     quarter date change for both the high school and Veterans. Ms. Fox agreed to the idea and noted the
     contractual implications that currently prevented it.

     Ms. Gold clarified that if the school committee changed the learning model, it would necessitate good
     faith impact bargaining. She further reminded the committee of the vote they took on February 4 th
     with a motion to support Superintendent Buckey and the principals to plan to bring the students back
     at lower distancing levels and fully in person which is what began ongoing negations with the MEA
     again.

     Continued conversation regarding the logistics involved with bringing the students back to more in
     person learning across all grade levels took place.
     Ms. Taylor made a motion to have the students back by April 5 th with the caveat that Dr. Buckey
     comes back to the committee with obstacles so the committee could problem solve in preparation for
     adjustments. The motion was seconded by Ms. Barron.
            A conversation about accommodating remote learners for the fall took place and it was noted by Ms.
            Gold that information was constantly changing and that decisions for the fall could not be confirmed
            this early on. It was confirmed by Dr. Buckey that the remote learning model would remain in place
            throughout the 2020-2021school year. A roll call vote was taken.

            Ms. Gold-yes
            Ms. Fox-yes
            Ms. Taylor-yes
            Ms. Barron-yes
            Mr. Harris-yes

            The motion passes 5-0.

            Superintendent Buckey named the members of the search committee for the new Lucretia and Joseph
            Brown School principal search. He shared that an initial meeting is scheduled for next Wednesday.

            Dr. Buckey explained that Director of IT, Stephen Kwiatek was looking for a school committee
            representative for his committee to design a new website. Although no formal vote was taken, it was
            agreed that Ms. Barron would join that committee.

IV.   Finance Organizational Support
       1. Schedule of Bills
           Ms. Gold made a motion to accept the identified schedule of bills totaling $3, 126,033.26. The motion
           was move by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken.

            Ms. Gold-yes
            Ms. Fox-yes
            Ms. Taylor-yes
            Mr. Harris-yes
            Ms. Barron-yes

            The motion passes, 5-0.
       2.   FY22 Budget Update
            Ms. Cresta shared that there was no news to report on FY21.

            Ms. Taylor shared that there was a budget subcommittee meeting and that Dr. Buckey would be
            working with his team to further prioritize the list of FY22 budget priorities. Ms. Taylor shared the
            collaborative efforts with the Town to support the needs of the schools. Ms. Taylor noted that the
            budget hearing is tentatively scheduled for the 18 th and may need to be rescheduled depending up the
            meeting with the finance committee.

V.    School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
       1. Policies to Review and Vote
            a. EBCFA-Face Coverings
            b. IHBAA-Observations of Special Education Programs
            c. IHCA-Summer Schools
            d. JFABD-Homeless Students: Enrollment Rights and Services
            e. JFABE-Educational Opportunities for Military Children
            f. JFABF-Education Opportunities for Children in Foster Care

             Ms. Gold made a motion to approve policies EBCFA, IHBAA, IHCA, JFABD, JFABE and JFABF
             which was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron.
               Ms. Fox inquired about the policy about observing special education programs due to the number of
               changes to which Ms. Barron and Ms. Gold explained that information was added to be more in line
               with neighboring districts. A roll call vote was taken.

               Ms. Gold-yes
               Ms. Fox-yes
               Ms. Taylor-yes
               Ms. Barron-yes
               Mr. Harris-yes

               The motion passes, 5-0.
       2.     Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
               The METCO Annual Cultural Celebration will be held May 14th at 6:30pm outside
               Ms. Taylor reminded the committee to vote the subcommittee minutes and to update the website.
                 She also explained that push notifications were being looked into.
               Facilities is awaiting a report and will most likely meet for two upcoming meetings.
               The policy committee usually meets on the 2nd Tuesday of the month and will reschedule to the
                 Tuesday after on the 16th.
       3.     Building Project Update
              Dr. Buckey shared that a meeting was held with the moving company to discuss the packing and
              moving of items to the new school to understand what the move should look like.

              Mr. Harris shared a photo of the new Verizon pole over by the Tower School that will start the
              underground power that will be run to the new school.

VI.   Closing Business
      1. New Business
      2. Correspondence
          Ms. Gold mentioned the letter that Dr. Buckey wrote to Representative Ehrlich requesting that teachers
          be prioritized for the Johnson and Johnson vaccines.

             Ms. Gold also acknowledged the Dollars for Scholars fundraising campaign sharing that various
             businesses in town would be offering a percentage of sales to the campaign.

             Ms. Gold also mentioned a petition that the school committee received a copy of and mentioned
             revisiting it at another meeting as it was received late.
      3.     Public Comment
             Donna Weiner thanked everyone for working really hard. She asked that the middle school and high
             schools be considered as separate entities and for the April 5 th motion to be clarified.

             Erin Noonan of Beverly Avenue thanked the members for their work on the committee during stressful
             times. Ms. Noonan voiced concerns about school budgeting needs. She requested clarification on how
             the schools plan on addressing gaps in learning.

             Catherine Martin spoke in favor of Ms. Noonan’s comments. She addressed the budget gap and her
             concerns about meeting the budgeting needs of the schools while focusing on student facing needs.
      4.     Adjournment
             Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:43pm

             Respectfully Submitted,
            Lisa Dimier, Secretary
            Marblehead School Committee

            Approved August 3, 2021
