                Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                            Thursday February 17, 2022
                                      7:00pm

https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82630339519?pwd=Ui9jVEFEN2JSNWc2SHdBQW02allLdz09
                           Zoom Recording ID 826 3033 9519

Members Present: Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron and
                 David Harris

Also:                 Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                      Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance

I.   Initial Business
     a. Call to Order
         Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:01pm.
     b. Commendations
          Ms. Fox commended reporter Chris Stevens for her coverage of Marblehead
              over the years.
     c. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
          Alexis Earp was recognized for being honored with the Brotherhood Award
              with the MA chapter of the Jewish War Veterans
          The Village, Veterans and the High School went mask optional on 2/7/2022
          The National Honor Society had a fundraiser on 2/9
          The performance of Macbeth will happen on the 11th and 12th
          National Green School Society recently lead and eco workshop at Village
          Marblehead’s Got talent will be at the Cabot Theatre that night
          Sophomore semi-formal tickets went on sale and the event will be 3/11
          The Freshman held a Valentine’s fundraiser with Stowaway sweets
          The Senior class is working on their senior show and raffles
          The swim team had their NEC championship meet
          The Basketball teams are playing that evening
     d. Public Comment
          Brown School Teacher, Eileen D’Amour shared her disappointment with
              administration choosing not to renew Principal Satterfield’s contract.
          Ramsay Hoguet of Norman St. inquired about an accommodation policy for
              immunocompromised individuals in a mask optional environment.
          Village School student, Grace Wolverton of Beach St. spoke in favor of
              separate classroom accommodations for student who may be
              immunocompromised or have immunocompromised siblings at home.

II. Consent Action and Agenda Items
    a. Minutes
       8/24/2021, 9/2/2021, 9/14/2021, 9/15/2021, 9/23/2021, 10/19/2021
       Ms. Gold asked for a motion to approve the minutes from 8/24, 9/2, 9/14, 9/15
       and 9/23/2021 noting that the 10/19 minutes were not available to vote that
       evening. The motion was moved by Ms.Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron.
       A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 5-0.

       Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Harris and Ms. Barron-all yes

   b. Proposed Program of Studies Changes 2022-2023SY
      High School Principal, Daniel Bauer
      The program of studies was postponed until the next regularly scheduled
      meeting.

       Ms. Fox requested that documents pertaining to the program of studies be
       posted for community review and a conversation regarding sharing documents
       prior to allowing for presentation and committee discussion took place. Most
       committee members agreed that sharing documents that have not yet been
       discussed or reviewed could create unnecessary confusion within the
       community.

III. Superintendent Report
     a. District Initiative Priorities-Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy
        Superintendent Murphy shared a presentation outlining an overview of the district
        initiative priorities.

       It was noted that a K-6 instructional support team worked to align curriculum and
       instruction during the school year by first providing a targeted weekly
       professional development and a monthly district-wide professional development.
       Master schedules providing for inclusive practices were aligned across buildings
       and the selection and implementation of a new K-8 math curriculum and
       assessment process began. A uniformed K-6 writing program was introduced
       and content curriculum across grades 9-12 was compiled for review.
       Superintendent Murphy shared the next steps which would prioritize creating a
       curriculum map to align scope and sequence which would help to inform future
       curriculum purchases. She also informed the committee of the work that has
       been accomplished with creating a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Team, DEI.

       Additional items in development such as report cards, the kindergarten screening
       and registration process and summer programming were also mentioned.

   b. Early Education Organization-Director of Student Services, Paula Donnelly
      Director of Student Services, Ms. Donnelly explained that 2022-2023sy start
      times for PreK and Transitional Kindergarten along with Kindergarten will be
      aligned across both buildings from 8:15-2:00pm Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and
      Friday with a half day dismissal time of 12pm on Wednesdays. It was mentioned
      that Wednesday afternoons would provide common prep time for student
      services teachers and allow for more intensive services for students who require
      it.
       i)   Start Date Recommendation
            All PreK, TK and Kindergarten students will begin on September 8th, a few
            days earlier than originally anticipated.

            Ms. Fox excused herself from the meeting prior to the memorandum being
            discussed.

IV. Finance and Organizational Support
    a. Memorandum of Understanding, MOY for Abbot Public Library
       Ms. Cresta explained that the memorandum would memorialize the use of the
       Coffin School by the library while the school is vacant and the library undergoes
       a renovation project.

       Ms. Gold asked for a motion to enter into a memorandum of understanding with
       the Abbot Public Library and authorize the chair to sign on behalf of the
       committee. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Mr. Harris. A
       roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 4-0.

      Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Harris and Ms. Barron-all yes.
   b. Early Education 2022-2023SY Tuition
      Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations, Ms. Cresta shared a memo
      presenting the proposed 2022-2023sy preschool and kindergarten tuition rates.
      Ms. Cresta reminded the committee that being able to offer tuition-free
      kindergarten would be dependent upon approval of the budget request. It was
      explained that in preparation for registration opening, the committee should
      assume a tuition-based program until final budget approval from the Town.

       Ms. Gold made a motion that the school committee approve the tuition rates for
       the 2022-2023 school year as follows. Full Day Kindergarten program $3,500;
       Preschool Half Day program $4,500; Preschool Full day program $6,500; and
       Transitional Kindergarten program $7,100. The motion was moved by Ms.Taylor
       and seconded by Ms. Baron. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 4-
       0.

      Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Harris and Ms. Barron-all yes.
   c. Schedule of Bills
      Ms. Gold made a motion to accept the schedule of bills totaling $381,358.67. The
      motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote
      was taken and the motion passes, 4- 0.

       Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Harris and Ms. Barron-all yes.

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion Items
   a. Policy EBCFA-Face Coverings Discussion
      Ms. Gold shared that Superintendent Buckey provided a memo to the committee
      recommending that the district go mask optional on Monday March 7th. In
      Superintendent Buckey’s absence, Assistant Superintendent Murphy explained
       that trends showing increased numbers following vacation breaks supported a
       more conservative masking approach upon return from February break.

       Ms. Gold reminded the committee that the mask mandate would not be extended
       beyond February 28th. She also mentioned that per recent mask policy updates
       from MASC, Dr. Buckey also recommends rescinding the face coverings policy.

       After a discussion about how masks would still be required in health offices, on
       the bus and for the five days following coming out of isolation, Ms. Taylor made a
       motion to rescind the mask policy effective as of February 28th. The motion was
       seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 4-0.

      Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Harris and Ms. Barron-all yes.
   b. In-Person Meeting Discussion
      Ms. Gold recommended that the committee go back to in-person meetings on
      March 3rd. She informed the committee that technology will be discussed with
      MHTV and the Technology Director in an effort to be able to live stream and offer
      a recording.
   c. Subcommittee and Liaisons Updates
       Ms. Baron shared Racial Justice Team events will take place on the following
          dates:
          -2/23 at 10am at Brown School with a focus on presented artworks
          -2/28 at 7pm at the High School with METCO Inc focusing on a race
          discussion
       METCO Presents performance tickets are on sale for $10
       The DEI team will be hanging peace flags in all of the buildings
       A SEPAC presentation on the IEP process with Dr. Donnelly is scheduled for
          3/9
       A presentation on ableism is scheduled for 7pm on 3/30.

VI. Closing Business
    a. New Business
       None
    b. Correspondence
       None
    c. Adjournment
       Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:06pm.

Materials Included:
Program of Studies-Tabled
Teaching and Learning Presentation-District Initiatives
Early Education 2022-2023sy Start Date
Memorandum of Understanding-Library and Coffin School
Tuition Rates Memo
Schedule of Bills Memo
Mask Recommendation Memo
Policy EBCFA
Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved April 7, 2022
