                        Record of the Marblehead School Committee-Retreat
                                       Tuesday July 19, 2022
                                             9:00am
                           Brown School Front Office Conference Room
                                         40 Baldwin Rd.

                         Zoom Recording ID: https://marbleheadschools-
           org.zoom.us/j/92276644630?pwd=b3ZPOHFTdk0vUEsxK2dteTJtSVlaZz09
Members Present:    Sarah Fox, Sarah Gold, Alison Taylor and Meagan Taylor

Also:                   John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                        Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                        Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance

I.      Initial Business
        a. Call to Order
            Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 9:06am.
        b. Public comment
            None

II.     Teaching and Learning Update
        Assistant Superintendent Nan Murphy provided an update from the Teaching and
        Learning Department. She shared information pertaining to the following:
            The approach being taken to address pandemic related learning loss
            Social emotional support during the summer months
            The assessment tools purchased to assist with student related data storage and
                progress monitoring
            Adjustments made to the building schedules which will be communicated out by
                building principals prior to the start of school
            Revisions made to the K-6th grade report cards which will be shared at the open
                houses
            Instructional coaches and their role in assisting with building a scope and
                sequence and professional development planning that will help educators to
                provide focused data driven targeted supports

III.    Open Meeting Law and Public Records Presentation-Attorney Colby Brunt
        Attorney Colby Brunt of Stoneman, Chandler & Miller LLP shared information with the
        committee focusing on open meeting law and public records requests. She provided case
        law examples to further explain specific scenarios. Topics for discussion included:
             The jurisdiction of the School Committee which focuses on policy and budget
             The need for open meeting and public record standards and accountability
             Examples of scenarios that may constitute an open meeting law violation
             Conference attendance, email and social media use considerations
             Reviewing public comment and correspondence policies along with procedural
               guidelines
             Records request compliance and situations when legal should provide guidance
             Meetings and minutes related compliance and the proper archival of minutes and
               Executive Session minutes.
IV.     Zero Based Budget Presentation-Michelle Cresta
        Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations, Michelle Cresta gave an overview
        of what a zero based budgeting approach would entail. It was explained that the process
        was created to justify costs based on need in every salary line. She further explained that
        the budgets would be set per each building and would not include a carry forward of
        staffing or salary lines. It was mentioned that the current staffing levels would not be
        adequate to support the time necessary to tackle a zero based budgeting approach. Ms.
        Cresta also provided recommendations for planning for the FY24 budgeting season
        including beginning the process in October while incorporating an intensive overview of
        staffing levels, which was last completed some time ago.


V.      Schedule of Bills
        Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $873,683.75
        The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms. Taylor. The motion passes,
        5-0 all in favor.

VI.     User and Lunch Fees
        Ms. Cresta noted that there would be no change to the user fees for the 22-23 school year.
        It was mentioned that the fee structure would be more closely examined in the coming
        year in consideration of budget planning.

        It was explained that lunch fees had not been increased for a few years and the
        recommendation would be to increase lunch fees to account for increasing operating costs
        especially depending upon the decision of the government to continue or not with free
        meals. Prior to taking a vote, a discussion about rising food costs and the possibility of
        seeking out additional grants took place. Tiered meal plans were also discussed.

        Ms. Fox asked for motion to approve student meal prices for the 2022-2023 school year
        as $2.25 for breakfast for all schools, $3.50 per lunch at Brown, Glover and Village,
        $3.75 for lunch at Veterans, $4.00 for lunch at the High School and $5.25 for a premium
        lunch at the High School. The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms.
        Barron. The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.

VII.    Lunch Break
        A lunch recess took place from 12:01pm to 12:24pm.

VIII.   Finalize Massachusetts of School Committees (MASC) Conference Attendees
        After a brief discussion, it was decided that Superintendent Buckey and Assistant
        Superintendent, Nan Murphy along with committee members Emily Barron, Sarah Fox
        and Alison Taylor would attend the joint conference in November.

        It was also decided that the first November meeting would be moved from Thursday
        November 3rd to Wednesday November 2nd to accommodate for conference conflicts.

IX.     Subcommittee and Liaisons Assignments
        The subcommittee and liaisons representatives for the 2022-2023 school year were
        agreed as listed.

        Subcommittees:
        Budget-Sarah Fox and Alison Taylor
      Facilities-Sarah Fox and Alison Taylor
      Policy-Emily Barron and Sarah Gold

      Liaisons:
      METCO Liaison-Emily Barron
      SEPAC Liaison-Meaghan Taylor

      Superintendent’s Advisories:
      Safety Advisory-Sarah Gold
      Health and Wellness Advisory-Emily Barron

      It was also agreed that no committee members would be part of the school advisory
      councils going forward but could attend as a parent to remain informed.

X.    School Committee Stipend Positions and Streaming Meeting Discussion
      A discussion about continuing to hold hybrid meetings took place. It was explained that a
      stipend position would be required in order to continue to hold in person and virtual
      meetings. It was also noted that the equipment used during the 21-21 school year has
      since been moved to the Brown School so new equipment would need to be ordered for
      hybrid meetings to continue. A quote obtained to purchase the new equipment was shared
      by the Director of Technology and after a committee discussion, it was decided that more
      information would be shared at a future meeting to assist the committee with their
      decision to move forward with the proposals or not.

XI.   Superintendent Goal Setting and Evaluation Presentation and Discussion
      Ms. Dorothy Presser from MASC shared a presentation on the goal setting process noting
      that student achievement is the outcome of the process. It was mentioned that District
      goals should align with the goals of the school committee and administrators.
      Focused topics for discussion included:
       The importance of progress monitoring
       Utilizing the SMART goal process
       Ensuring goals are linked to budget and policy

      A discussion about the Plan for Success took place and committee members voiced the
      need for more information to be shared with the community and the best way to
      communicate the information out.

      Superintendent Buckey mentioned that more work would be done at the leadership retreat
      focusing on initiatives and it was recommended by MASC that a mid-year summary be
      shared with the District.

      Further information about evaluating the Superintendent was shared. It was noted that
      evaluations were completed to ensure progress monitoring and accountability along with
      being required by DESE. A 5 step cycle process was presented and recommended when
      evaluating under the four delineated standards. Although no formal vote was taken, it was
      decided that a separate folder within the drive for the committee be created to organize all
      of the Superintendent’s documents pertaining to his goals and evaluation. It was
      recommended that the protocols for creating the summative be set and agreed upon prior
      to the summative being compiled. It was clarified that the summative evaluation consists
      of the majority view of the committee.
       Prior to adjourning the meeting, it was mentioned that committee protocols would be
       reviewed at an off cycle August workshop after the newest member completed the
       Charting the Course training.
XII.   Closing Business
       a. New Business
           None
       b. Correspondence
       c. None
       d. Adjournment
           Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 2:56pm

Materials Included:
Legal Presentation Materials
Zero Based Budgeting Documents
Schedule of Bills
School Meal Prices Documents
November Joint Conference Dates
Subcommittee and Liaisons Document
Technology Quote for School Committee Meeting Equipment
Operating Protocols

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved September 22, 2022
