                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                              Thursday February 3, 2022
                                       7:00pm
Link:
https://us06web.zoom.us/j/88430715530?pwd=S0x2Z1R6aG43dm95U1IrWW8zQ0RVZz09
                           Zoom Recording ID 884 3071 5530

Members Present: Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron and
                 David Harris

Also:                  John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                       Dan Bauer, High School Principal
                       Stephen Kwiatek, Director of Technology
                       Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance

I.   Initial Business
     a. Call to Order
         Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:01pm.
     b. Commendations
          Ms. Barron commended the Superintendents for handling the recent
              incidences of hate at the Village School. She also acknowledged the students
              who spoke out.
          Ms. Fox recognized community member, Elizabeth Peterson who shoveled
              the streets and sidewalks around the Village School after a recent storm.
          The facilities department was also commended for working through the
              blizzard
          Following the weather related conversation, Dr. Buckey shared that due to
              the nature of the impending storm, school will be canceled the following day.
     c. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
          The Rotary Club was acknowledged for helping to shovel during the snow
              storm
          Student, Tim Clay was acknowledged for his acceptance in All National
              Mixed Choir
          On 1/26 Essex Tech After Dark presented to the sophomore class to discuss
              dual enrollment options
          On 1/27 there was an 8th grade open house
          Food for the food pantry was collected through the 28th and winter coats, hats
              and gloves were also collected for the MIAA.
          The Community Outreach Club is currently collecting food and supplies for
              Life Bridge
          Team Harmony presented to the Village School about discrimination
          The freshmen are holding their Valentine’s Day fundraiser with Stowaway
              Sweets until the 28th.
          The National Honor Society is holding a fundraiser next Wednesday at
              Chipotle.
          A math meet took place earlier that day
          Senior Night was held on January 25th for swimming
       Junior Parent Night is currently ongoing
       A sports update was provided
   d. Public Comment
       Ms. Nicole Cohen raised concerns regarding parental consent about the
         Team Harmony and DEI presentation topics.
       Ms. Catherine Martin spoke about the budget process and inquired about
         consideration for an override and revisiting potential adjustments to budget
         asks and priorities.
       Luba Greneder discussed masking and requested that the school committee
         consider the social and developmental harm associated with masking. Luba’s
         son who is a senior at the high school spoke against mask wearing sharing
         the social hurdles and anxiety students were experiencing.
       Ms. Emily DeWitt encouraged community members to attend the
         Superintendent’s monthly coffees sharing how informative they are.
       Ms. Kim Day thanked the crossing guards for all that they do. She also noted
         her agreement with Ms. Martin’s comments regarding the budget.

II. Consent Action and Agenda Items
    a. Minutes-6/172021, 7/8/2021 and 8/3/2021
       Prior to asking for a motion to accept the minutes, Ms. Fox noted some typos for
       6/17 and requested that the minutes from the 8/3 retreat minutes reflect that the
       assigned members of the facilities subcommittee would serve as liaisons to the
       light department.

       Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the minutes from 6/17, 7/8 and 8/3/2021.
       The motion was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor. A roll call vote
       was taken and the motion passes, 5-0.

       Ms. Gold, Mr. Harris, Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Barron-all yes

   b. Distributive Education Clubs of America DECA Overnight field trip
      Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the MHS overnight trip to attend the DECA
      competition in Boston from March 10-March 12th. The motion was moved by Ms.
      Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox. A roll call vote was taken and the motion
      passes, 5-0.

       Ms. Gold, Mr. Harris, Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor and Ms. Barron-all yes

III. Superintendent Report
     a. District Registration Update-Technology Director, Stephen Kwiatek
        Mr. Kwiatek shared that a new registration process implementing the existing
        Aspen system would be rolled out this year. It was mentioned that the process
        would serve as a single source for data transfer and decrease the steps required
        for registration. The rollout process, once finalized, would be shared with the
        committee.
     b. District Updates
        i) Budget update
           Superintendent Buckey provided a budget update focusing on the iterative
           process and highlighting the changes to the tracking sheet and budget
           priorities based on leadership team feedback. The categories of the individual
           priorities was discussed and it was mentioned how alternative ways to fund
           certain items, such as leasing equipment, would be considered through the
           process. It was noted that a DEI position had been added and it was clarified
           which asks may qualify to be grant funded.
       ii) Face covering Update
           Superintendent Buckey shared that he was pleased to announce that DESE
           has shared updated guidance from January 10th to highly recommend mask
           wearing once the mandate has expired. He informed the committee that the
           Board of Health confirmed that the schools operate as an entity under DESE
           and not under the Town mask mandate.

            Given the new guidance and confirmation from the Board of Health,
            Superintendent Buckey recommended that the High School, Veterans and
            Village School, having met the 80% vaccination status, go mask optional on
            Monday, February 7th. He noted the importance of respecting individual
            choice going forward. It was mentioned that to avoid a spike in cases, all
            students should return after February break masked. Pool testing is
            anticipated to continue until the new at home testing program is up and
            running.
       iii) Town Report Submission Update
            The Town Report is being worked on and will be submitted with input from
            the leadership team and it will be shared with the committee.
       Parent and faculty representatives have been selected to join the search
       committee for a Glover School Principal.
       An Executive Session for an MEA grievance will need to be scheduled to hear
       the grievance.

IV. Finance and Organizational Support
    a. Schedules
       Ms. Gold asked for a motion to approve the Schedule of bills totaling
       $2,333,612.12. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms.
       Barron. Prior to a roll call vote, Mr. Harris inquired about the utility bills for the
       closed buildings and confirmed that the line for Valley Communication is related
       to the payment for the high school sign. A roll call vote was taken and the motion
       passes, 5-0.

       Ms. Gold, Mr. Harris, Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor and Ms. Barron-all yes

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion Items
   a. Subcommittee and Liaisons Updates
       Policy is in the process of reviewing the “I” policies and will be revisiting
         tabled policies.
          METCO is including “best practices” at the bottom of their weekly newsletters
           and one newsletter recently included information for including a non-voting
           METCO representative on the school committee, which Ms. Barron
           recommended the committee consider.
          School Advisory Council Updates were provided
           -The Brown School discussed allied arts positions
           -The High School is reviewing handbooks and how to hotlink information to
            the website.
          SEPAC survey results from parents have come back and Ms. Taylor
           recommended that a SEPAC representative come to present to the
           committee soon

VI. Closing Business
    a. New Business
       Ms. Fox asked for clarification regarding the pink sheets in the budget books for
       the next meeting.
       Ms. Gold would like to further discuss returning to in-person meetings at the next
       meeting.
    b. Correspondence
       None
    c. Adjournment
       Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:14pm.

Materials Included:
Overnight DECA Competition Memo
Online Registration Memo Update
Superintendent’s Updates Memo
Budget Tracking and Priorities
Schedule of Bills

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved April 7, 2022
