                            Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                        Thursday September 22, 2022
                                                  7:00pm
                                           High School Library
                                              2 Humphrey St.

                             Zoom Recording ID: https://marbleheadschools-
            org.zoom.us/j/96318283945?pwd=VVA2NHdaTkRMWlBkWmc4aDJYVlR3Zz09

   Members Present:        Sarah Fox, Emily Barron and Alison Taylor

   Remote Participation:   Meagan Taylor

   Members Absent:         Sarah Gold

   Also:                   John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                           Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                           Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance
                           Matt Fox, Veterans Middle School Principal
                           Dan Bauer, High School Principal

I. Initial Business
   a. Call to Order
       Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7pm.
       It was mentioned that Ms. Meagan Taylor would be participating from home and Ms. Gold
       would not be in attendance that evening.
   b. Commendations
       Professional Teacher Status Recognition
        Superintendent Buckey recognized the dedicated educators who have obtained professional
           teaching status.
        Ms. Fox commended the crossing guards for navigating all of the construction in Town.
   c. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
        9/6 was the first day of school and seniors welcomed the freshman
        The peer mentors were commended for welcoming freshman
        A drive was held on 9/14 in support of the Massachusetts Military Heroes fund
        The high school open house was 9/15
        Clubs have started and the activity fair was 9/16
        College visits for seniors have begun
        Parent Night was held on 9/20
        The League of Women Voters ran a voter registration drive on 9/20
        Picture Day was held on 9/20
        Class elections will be held on 10/7
        A sports update was provided
        The field hockey coach was commended on her 300th win.
   d. Public Comment-none

II. Consent Action and Agenda Items
    a. Minutes- 6/23/2022, 7/19/2022 and 8/29/2022
       Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the minutes from 6/23/22 and 7/19/2022, which was
       moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken and the motion
       passes, 4-0.
       Ms. Barron-yes
       Ms. Alison Taylor-yes
       Ms. Meagan Taylor-yes
       Ms. Fox-yes

       Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the minutes from 8/29/22, which was moved by Ms.
       Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was take and the motion passes, 3-0-1.

      Ms. Barron-yes
      Ms. Alison Taylor-yes
      Ms. Meagan Taylor-abstained
      Ms. Fox-yes
   b. Appointment of School Nurse(s)
      The appointment of a school nurse was not discussed and will remain on future agendas as a
      placeholder until a recommendation for hire is confirmed.
   c. Review of School Improvement Plans-Veterans Middle School and the High School
      Principal Fox and Bauer presented the improvement plans for the Veterans and High Schools.
      The main focus areas consisted of 1) curriculum 2) data 3) instruction and 4) diversity, equity
      and inclusion. Improvement strategies for each of the planning for success initiative areas were
      outlined.

       Ms. Fox made a motion to approve the school improvement plans as presented by Principals
       Fox and Bar. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 4-0.

       Ms. Barron-yes
       Ms. Alison Taylor-yes
       Ms. Meagan Taylor-yes
       Ms. Fox-yes

III. Superintendent Report
     a. Bussing Update
        Assistant Superintendent Cresta explained that busses are at capacity for students the district is
        required to provide bussing for along with those students who participate in the Pay to Ride
        program. It was mentioned that the program is unable to be expanded without hiring additional
        bus drivers. Ms. Cresta recommended undertaking a review of pay rates as part of negotiations
        for the following school year.
     b. Superintendent Goals
        After inquiring about a goals subcommittee, Ms. Fox requested that goals be presented prior to
        discussing a committee. She requested that goals be measurable while documenting what
        Superintendent Buckey may have learned from instructional walk-throughs for example.

       It was decided that Superintendent Buckey’s goals would be shared by one week ahead of time
       so committee members would be provided enough time to share feedback prior to the goals
       being discussed at the October 6th meeting.

      After a discussion, it was also decided that the goals would be listed on the October 6th agenda
      with a possible vote or voted at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
   c. Dual Enrollment
      Superintendent Buckey shared that the district is working with Salem State University to offer
      dual enrollment for the Spring. It was mentioned that courses could count towards credits but
      would not be calculated into final GPA’s.
   d. Planning for Success Update
      Superintendent Buckey informed the committee that priority initiatives for year two have been
      identified and a lead person has been appointed to develop action planning templates for each
      initiative.
      i. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion-Combatting Incidents of Hate
           Assistant Superintendent Nan Murphy shared information from an author visit earlier that
           day. It was mentioned that the conversation focused on helping students understand how to
           better react to situations based on how their own experiences have shaped them.

          Superintendent Buckey noted the importance of being proactive instead of reactive. He
          further shared that the district is taking advantage of informative resources from the Stand
          with Us organization to educate student and staff on incidences of hate.

          A conversation about mandating trainings through the MIAA for athletic team captains took
          place.

IV. Finance and Organizational Support
    a. Schedule of bills
       Ms. Fox made a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $459,837.58 which was moved
       by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes 4-
       0.

       Ms. Barron-yes
       Ms. Alison Taylor-yes
       Ms. Meagan Taylor-yes
       Ms. Fox-yes

V. School Committee and or Discussion Items
   a. Goal Setting Discussion
      Ms. Fox reminded the committee about selecting goals for the year to be discussed at a future
      meeting.
   b. Subcommittees and Liaisons Updates and Discussion
      Ms. Fox explained that a curriculum subcommittee discussion would be postponed as Ms. Gold
      was not in attendance to share her update with the committee.

       Ms. Fox also provided an update on the MSBA submission for roofs sharing that the high school
       roof would not be funded and that the funding for the Veterans School was to be determined.

       A conversation about the possibility of requesting larger capital overrides to keep up with the
       facilities master plan took place.

       It was mentioned that a budget calendar was being planned and that budget directives would be
       discussed to provide direction to the leadership team.

       Policy subcommittee meetings will be planned for the second Tuesday of every month.

      Ms. Barron met with the new METCO Director, Ms. Johnson and will invite her to a future
      meeting for her to share some of her ideas with the committee.
   c. Forum Topics and Dates Discussion
      An October forum was requested by Ms. Fox. After a discussion, it was decided that a
      ThoughtExchange survey would go out to the community to help determine the topic. It was
      recommended that a forum be scheduled for the last week in October.
VI. Closing Business
    a. New Business
       A discussion about clarifying what should be considered new business and what should be
       included in correspondence took place. It was mentioned that legal and MASC could provide
       guidance. It was agreed that requesting to add an item to a future agenda could be discussed
       under new business.
    b. Correspondence
       none
    c. Adjournment
       Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 8:23pm.

   Materials Included:
   Memorandum-Professional Teacher Status Commendation
   School Improvement Plans-Middle and High Schools
   Memorandum-Transportation Update
   Plan for Success Document
   Schedule of Bills
   Memorandum-Monthly Financial Report

   Respectfully Submitted,
   Lisa Dimier, Secretary
   Marblehead School Committee

   Approved October 6, 2022
