                             Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                          Thursday January 20, 2022
                                                    7:00pm
                Link: https://us06web.zoom.us/j/81846260165?pwd=eGNqSTN0R0VKaTFFMXlHSC9PNWl6QT09
                                       Zoom Recording ID 818 4626 0165

Members Present:        Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

Also:                   John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                        Paula Donnelly, Director of Student Services
                        Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance

    I.   Initial Business and Public Comment
         a. Call to Order
              Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:02pm
         b. Commendations
              Ms. Gold commended the high school for being recognized for their enrollment of female
              students in Advanced Placement, AP computer science courses.
         c. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
               Students who won the Boston Globe football all scholastic honors were recognized
               20 students qualified for the DECA state competition scheduled for March
               Auditions for the Bye Bye Birdie play recently took place
               A math meet is scheduled for 1/6
               Marblehead’s Got talent audition videos need to be submitted by 1/24
               An 8th grade open house is scheduled for 1/27
               The National Art Honor Society is holding a fundraiser in support of student art work
               The Freshmen are hosting a Valentine’s fundraiser with Stowaway Sweets
               The middle school has started a lunch composting program similar to the high school.
               The National Green School Society is undergoing an audit for a food recue program and
                  continuing work with their no idling campaign
               A sports update was provided
         d. Public Comment
              Melissa Kaplowitch of Camille Terrace thanked the Superintendent for hosting a calendar
              specific coffee. She shared her concerns pertaining to recognizing and observing religious
              holidays.

    II. Consent Action and Agenda Items
        a. Minutes
           6/3/2021, 6/17/2021 and 6/28/2021
           Ms. Gold noted that the minutes from 6/17 would be voted at an upcoming meeting. She also
           clarified the adjournment time missing from one set of minutes. Ms. Fox shared she would be
           abstaining for the vote as she was unable to review the minutes.

            Ms. Gold asked for a motion to approve the minutes from 6/3 and 6/28/2021, which was moved
            by Mr. Harris and seconded by Ms. Taylor. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes 4-
            0-1.

            Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Harris and Ms. Barron-all yes
            Ms. Fox-abstained

    III. Superintendent Report
         a. District Update
   Superintendent Buckey provided updates on DESE program updates for COVID testing, a
   timeline for the Glover School Principal Search and the plan to begin instructional
   walkthroughs. He also provided a budget update, an update on the dates for the next safety and
   wellness meetings and the January Superintendent’s Coffee.

   Pool testing will eventually be phased out and a new at home testing program with replace it.
   Families will need to consent to the at home testing program to receive test kits that will allow
   students and staff to test one a week at home.

   The Glover Principal vacancy will be posted on School Spring the following day and interested
   search committee members should submit a letter of interest to the Superintendent.

   Instructional walkthroughs have been occurring and have been insightful for observing
   classroom curriculum standards.

   The budget process is moving along with the next joint meeting scheduled for January 25th.
   The safety and wellness committees are scheduled to meet the week of January 24th with the
   next Superintendent’s Coffee scheduled for Friday January 28 at 8:15 at the Village School.
   It was shared that the contest to name the Superintendent’s new dog had come to an end. It was
   announced that the dog would be named Rocky and Ms. Doben’s class won the contest and
   pizza party.

   Ms. Taylor recommended considering funding for adding a role for a METCO liaison so the
   director could focus on diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) efforts in the district. A
   conversation about researching the position with the other districts took place to which the
   Superintendent confirmed was already in motion as DEI has been a recent focus of the
   department of education.
b. Recommendation for Appointment
   Director of Student Services
   Superintendent Buckey recommended appointing Interim Director of Student Services, Paula
   Donnelly for permanent appointment noting the stability she brought to the department.
   Committee members took turns commending Ms. Donnelly in her first year in the interim role.

   Ms. Gold made a motion to appoint Dr. Paula Donnelly as the Director of Student Services on
   a permanent basis.

   The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. Ms. Fox requested the
   motion be amended to reflect acceptance pending successful contract negotiations.

   Ms. Fox clarified the motion to be to “appoint Dr. Donnelly to the position of Student Services
   Director pending successful contract negotiations with the Superintendent.” The motion was
   moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken and the motion
   passes, 5-0.

   Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Harris and Ms. Barron-all yes
c. 2022-2023 Calendar Presentation
   Superintendent Buckey presented the 2022-2023 school year calendar taking into consideration
   the concerns raised at the January 6th meeting. It was shared that staff would begin the year
   before Labor Day, prior to students to focus on three days of professional development.
   Students in grades 1st through 12th will begin on Tuesday September 6th. A full day in
   December will be for parent/teacher conferences with an early dismissal the following week
       for additional conferences. There will be both an early dismissal and full school day off leading
       into December break and Good Friday will become a half day.

       After a discussion, Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the proposed calendar for 2022-2023
       school year calendar. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A
       roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 5-0.

       Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Harris and Ms. Barron-all yes

      Ms. Fox requested that the start date for Kindergarten and Pre-k be reconsidered to start sooner
      to which Superintendent Buckey confirmed it would be revisited.
   d. Sabbatical Leave Requests
      Superintendent Buckey mentioned that there has been no history of approving sabbatical leaves
      in district. He further explained that he would not recommend approving the requests due to
      uncertainty of being able to fill a one-year temporary position with a qualified candidate given
      the staffing shortages from the pandemic.

       Ms. Gold reminded the committee that due to budget implications associated with approving a
       sabbatical leave, the requests needed to come before the committee prior to administration
       responding to the staff requesting the leave.

       A conversation about the possibility of approving an unpaid full year of leave in place of a
       sabbatical request took place.

IV. Finance and Organizational Support
    a. Schedules
        Ms. Gold asked for a motion to accept the schedule of bills totaling $362,564.34. The motion
        was moved by and seconded by. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 5-0.

      Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Harris, Ms. Barron and Ms. Fox-all yes
   b. Consideration of Potential Town Warrant Articles
      Ms. Cresta noted that Town Warrant articles will be due to the Town the following day. She
      shared the memo addressed to the Board of Selectmen requesting reauthorization of the Special
      Education Revolving Fund in the amount of $100,000,000. Ms. Cresta also noted that two other
      warrant articles would be added as placeholders. It was noted that one article would be for a
      supplemental appropriation for the school department should an override be requested and an
      article for facilities capital needs.

       A discussion regarding whether a vote was required for articles took place and due to the close
       deadline to submit articles, Ms. Fox made a motion for the school committee to support and
       sponsor the aforementioned three articles for Town Meeting. The motion was seconded by Ms.
       Barron.

       A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 5-0

       Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Harris, Ms. Barron and Ms. Fox-all yes

       A discussion about vacant school properties took place and it was agreed that a larger
       conversation should take place with the Town regarding the ownership and use of such
       properties.
   V. School Communication and/or Discussion Items
      a. Subcommittee and Liaisons Update
          A policy meeting is anticipated to be held the following Thursday
          The Vets SAC met earlier that day and planning for the transition of 8th graders to the high
             school is beginning
          The monthly Student Services listening sessions during lunch have been informative
          Ms. Fox requested that the policy committee look into aligning the dress code across
             buildings
          The high school SAC is currently looking into addressing handbook concerns
          The building committee has narrowed down about 40 punch list items remaining in the
             new building

   VI. Closing Business
       a. New Business
          None
       b. Correspondence
          An email from Peter Cohen of the Charter School inquiring about splitting funding for a new
          roof was referenced.
          Ms. Fox mentioned that the only possibility to request funding from the Town would need to
          be submitted as a Citizens Warrant Article.
       c. Adjournment
          Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 8:33pm

Materials Included:
Superintendent Updates Memo
Glover Principal Search Timeline
Permanent Appointment Recommendation Memo
Final Proposed Calendar for 22-23sy
Sabbatical Leave Requests Memo
Schedule of Bills
Reauthorization of Revolving Fund Account Memo
Marblehead Community Charter School Correspondence

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved March 17, 2022
