                       Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                    Thursday October 20, 2022
                                            7:00pm
                                      High School Library

                          Zoom Recording ID https://marbleheadschools-
          org.zoom.us/j/92762302213?pwd=R2FZYjZ5Z3g2M3Z1amZXSXRhSlMzQT09
Members Present:     Sarah Gold and Sarah Fox
Members Absent:      Emily Barron
Remote Participants: Alison Taylor and Meagan Taylor

Also:                  John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                       Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                       Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance

I.      Initial Business and Public Involvement
        1. Call to Order
            Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:01pm
        2. Commendations
            • Ms. Fox commended the winners of a recent writing contest sponsored by the
                 Marblehead Beacon online Newspaper. She also named the students who received
                 Honorable Mention.
            • She also recognized the Veterans School crossing guard for remaining positive through
                 all of the recent road construction.
            • The Fine Arts department was recognized for the display of art throughout the buildings.
        3. Student Representative – Yasen Colon
            • Day Zero, a day focusing on community service, studying for PSATs or planning for
                 college was held on October 8th
            • A Risk Behavior Survey will be administered the following day during Magic Blocks
            • The 8th grade Open House will be the following Thursday
            • Auditions are taking place for the drama play
            • Inductions for honor societies are coming up
            • The Freshmen elected class officers
            • The Sophomores held a fundraiser at Chipotle
            • The Seniors have selected Powder Puff coaches
            • A financial aid night was held on the 18th
            • A sports update was provided
        4. Public Comment
            None

II.     Consent Agenda and Action Items
        1. Approval of Minutes:
           10/6/2022
           Ms. Fox made a motion to approve the minutes from 10/6/2022, which was moved by Ms.
           Gold and seconded by Alison Taylor. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 4-0

           Ms. Gold-yes
           MS. Alison Taylor-yes
           Meagan Taylor-yes
           Sarah Fox-yes
III.   Superintendent Report
       1. ThoughtExchange-Exchange 1 Overview and Presentation
          Superintendent Buckey shared the results of the first ThoughtExchange. He mentioned the
          positive experience working with the onboarding specialist. Data pertaining to the number of
          participants, thoughts and ratings and the participant languages was shared. A discussion
          about how to reach the greatest number of community members for future surveys took place.
          Further discussion pertaining to the results occurred and common themes were mentioned.
          Ms. Fox requested data associated with the most engagement to be shared at future meetings.
          It was explained that ThoughtExchange would need to be factored into future budget
          planning if a contract beyond the 2022-2023sy was of interest as it was not funded out of the
          operating budget.
       2. Planning for Success Update-Assistant Superintendent for Teaching and Learning
          Superintendent Murphy shared a teaching and learning update and how the strategic
          initiatives aligned with the District’s Plan for Success. Focus areas for the year ahead were
          shared and an overview of the work being done to ensure all students meet or exceed
          expectations was explained. It was mentioned that teachers were meeting once a month on
          Wednesday afternoons for focused professional development aligned to the Plan for Success.
          Superintendent Murphy commended the teachers on restructuring how the WIN, “What I
          Need” block was being used to support students.
       3. Superintendent 2022-2023sy Goals
          Ms. Fox suggested tabling the vote to approve the Superintendent goals until a full committee
          could be present.
       4. District Updates
          None

IV.    Finance Organizational Support
       1. Schedule of Bills
          Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $632, 443.35. The
          motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor. A roll call vote was
          taken and the motion passes, 4-0.

           Ms. Gold-yes
           MS. Alison Taylor-yes
           Meagan Taylor-yes
           Sarah Fox-yes

V.     School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
        1. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
            • Ms. Gold explained that the curriculum and instruction subcommittee discussion would
               be put on hold until it could be determined how to keep the subcommittee in the purview
               of the school committee
            • A SEPAC meeting was held last week and Ms. Meagan Taylor shared that the board
               meeting will be held on 10/26 at 7pm. An Asperger and Autism presentation will be
               scheduled soon.
            • A budget meeting is anticipated to be held the second week in November

               Ms. Taylor inquired about moving the first November meeting due to conflicts with the
               joint MASC/MASS conference. Ms. Fox recommended meeting on Tuesday 11/1 instead
               of Wednesday 11/2 as originally planned during the summer.
        2. Forum Date and Topic-10/25/22-Finance and Budget
           Ms. Fox explained that the forum was originally confirmed for October 25th and posted for
           that date. Due to availability conflicts, scheduling on the 26th instead was discussed. It was
           decided that members would address their conflicts to accommodate for the forum on the 25th
           so the forum would not interfere with the SEPAC meeting scheduled that same night.

VI.    Closing Business
       1. New Business
          None
       2. Correspondence
          None
       3. Adjournment
          The meeting adjourned at 7:52pm

Materials Included:
ThoughtExchange Presentation
Memorandum:Teaching and Learning Update
2022-2023sy Superintendent Goals-Revised
Schedule of bills

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved November 17, 2022
