                               Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                           Thursday December 1, 2022
                                                    6:30pm
                                              High School Library

                                               Zoom Recording ID
        https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/j/96067789195?pwd=TlIxWUViVlR0STl3RmJkemNFTExYQT09

Members Present:     Sarah Fox and Alison Taylor
Remote Participants: Sarah Gold and Meagan Taylor

Also:                John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                     Daniel Bauer, High School Principal
                     Matt Fox, Veterans Middle School Principal
                     Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance

    I. Initial Business
       a. Ms. Fox called the meeting to Order at 6:30pm.
       b. Ms. Fox made a motion and vote to meet in Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws
           chapter 30A, section 21(a) for the following purpose: purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to
           potential litigation regarding payment of a former employee if an open meeting may have a detrimental
           effect on the litigation of the public body and the chair so declares.

           A roll call vote was taken and the motion passed, 4-0.
           Ms. Gold, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Meagan Taylor and Ms. Fox-all yes.

           Executive Session
           Meeting in Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A, section
           21(a) for purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to potential litigation regarding payment of a
           former employee with the intent to return to open session.

           The Executive Session of the meeting adjourned at 6:59pm. A brief recess was taken and Ms. Fox
           began the open session of the meeting at 7:05pm.
        c. Commendations
           None.
        d. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
           • The Powderpuff game was held on 11/19. $13, 000k was raised for charity
           • The boys won their Thanksgiving game against Swampscott
           • The senior class brunch was held on 11/20 to begin spirit week
           • The Acapella annual concert was held on 11/22 and they will be caroling over the weekend
           • The freshmen held a dodgeball fundraiser on 11/22
           • The sophomore class distributed 91 pies on 11/22 from the Shubie’s fundraiser they held
           • The Fashion Club is holding a winter gear drive until 12/5
           • Jefferson Quorum, a community service club is holding a toy drive for Pathways for Children until
              12/14
           • Salem State is expanding their dual enrollment program
           • All students recently attended a Substance Youth Prevention Theatre performance
           • The sophomore class is planning a fundraiser for December
           • The seniors are scheduling meetings next week to start planning for their senior show
        e. Public Comment
           None
II. Superintendent Report
    a. Massachusetts Comprehensive Assessment System, MCAS Testing Update
       Veterans Middle School MCAS Update-Principal Matthew Fox
       High School MCAS Update-Principal Daniel Bauer

       An overview of grade level test administration since the 2019 school year was shared. The growth
       percentiles per content area for the 2022 school year was summarized noting which content areas per
       grade level resulted in either an increase or decline in scores.

       A sound connectivity issue caused an interruption in the presentation for about four minutes until the
       audio issue was resolved. A discussion about continuing to address and monitor learning loss
       appropriately per grade level took place.

       A discussion about how school start times contribute to student productivity and the daily schedule also
       took place. It was shared that Thought Exchange results surveying student start times would be shared
       at a future meeting.

       Ms. Fox took the meeting out of order to address a new business item pertaining to an out of state field
       trip in New York in March for the Model United Nations Conference. Ms. Fox explained that she
       received the information earlier that day and would like to bring the approval before the committee so
       the students could begin fundraising for the trip.

       Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the overnight trip for March 15th in New York.
       The motion was moved by Alison Taylor and seconded by Sarah Gold. A roll call vote was taken and
       the motion passes, 4-0. Ms. Gold, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Meagan Taylor, Ms. Fox-all yes

      Ms. Alison Taylor recommended that the students attend a future meeting to share their experience
   b. District Updates
      • A current Thought exchange will be open to the community until December 14th
         Committee members inquired if the results should be delivered sooner for analyzing.

       •   Dr. Buckey reminded Ms. Fox about the request to have an MASC/MASS speaker present to
           parents and staff in December or a future date that is most convenient with scheduling conflicts.

III. Finance Organizational Support
     a. Monthly Financial Update
        Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations, Michelle Cresta provided a first quarter report
        with monthly narrative updates. It was shared that about 18.7% of the budget had been spent by the end
        of October. The following highlights were shared:
        • Vacancies in the areas of special education, paraprofessionals, custodians and cafeteria workers still
            exist
        • The substitutes and custodian accounts should be monitored closely throughout the year
        • Due to the increase in rising utility costs, the anticipated remaining yearly utilities costs will be
            included in an upcoming report
        • 48% of the unemployment budget has been spent as of the end of October which is expected to go
            down
        • The shortage of bus drivers and escalation in fuel costs has caused contracted out of district special
            education transportation costs to increase causing the projected cost to be about $450k over budget
           A discussion about the importance of grant funding for future budget planning took place.
           Further discussion about operating vacancies and the costs associated with contracted services to
           temporarily fill positions also took place.

   b. Schedule of Bills
      Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $ 457,650.01. The motion was
      moved by Alison Taylor and seconded by Sarah Gold. The motion passes 4-0 after a roll call vote. Ms.
      Gold, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Meagan Taylor and Ms. Fox-all yes.

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
    a. School Committee Budget Priorities and Budget Calendar Discussion
       Ms. Fox noted that budget priorities and a calendar were put together after the budget subcommittee
       meeting scheduled the day before. Ms. Fox explained some meeting dates needed to be finalized with
       the Town and that a finalized calendar should be sent out within the next few days.

       It was also mentioned that budget leadership presentations would be held early in January.

       Ms. Gold inquired about voting on the budget priorities as a committee prior to sharing such priorities
       with the leadership team. Ms. Meagan Taylor agreed stating that she would prefer more time than that
       evening to review the priorities.

      Ms. Fox tabled the vote until the next meeting.
   b. School Committee Member Vacancy Update
      Ms. Fox explained that due to scheduling conflicts, the interviews for the vacant member seat would
      need to be rescheduled. It was mentioned that Monday, December 12th was suggested as a backup date.

       Ms. Gold and Ms. Meagan Taylor spoke in favor of honoring the original date selected and advertised.
       After a brief discussion, no alternate date was determined.

       Ms. Fox explained that out of the eleven applicants, one was not a registered voter and would be
       disqualified.

       Ms. Gold requested reviewing the timestamped information in support of confirming the requirements
       of the application process. A conversation about technicalities due to formatting and technology
       concerns took place.

       Ms. Taylor spoke in favor of following parameters for submission to ensure the process is fair and
       equitable for all. Ms. Fox confirmed that she would relay committee concerns to the Town.

      A discussion about scheduling an alternative interview date was revisited. It was decided that
      interviews on the 15th in place of the committee meeting, on the 19th or after the holidays would be
      preferable.
   c. Next Forum Topic and Date Discussion
      It was mentioned that a Special Education lead forum would be preferable as the next topic item. Ms.
      Meagan Taylor also mentioned speaking with SEPAC to coordinate dates with them.
   d. Subcommittee and Liaisons Updates
      • Ms. Fox mentioned that the Brown School project was being closed out and mentioned inviting
          former committee member, David Harris to a future meeting to provide a final update.
      • Ms. Fox also noted an email that came in from the library regarding roof leaks at the Eveleth school
          to which she noted the terms of the lease and the memorandum of understanding.
            •   Ms. Meagan Taylor requested that the facilities subcommittee work on prioritizing a list for capital
                requests.
            •   Ms. Taylor also spoke in favor of implementing set schedules for subcommittee meetings.
            •   Ms. Gold requested that the facilities subcommittee also review school owned properties in
                consideration of warrants to which Ms. Fox confirmed would be added to a future facilities
                subcommittee agenda.
            •   Ms. Fox mentioned holding onto school owned properties in consideration of potential expansion
                needs.

     V. Closing Business
        a. New Business
           • Ms. Gold questioned how news outlets obtained names of school committee applicants before the
               full committee had received the information. Ms. Fox explained that the information was turned
               around as quickly as possible. She further shared that she verbally shared applicant names towards
               the end of the day around the same time the names were being posted to the website in a redacted
               format.
           • After a discussion, committee members agreed that prioritizing public inquires before the
               committee is informed remains a concern.
        b. Correspondence
           • An email from the library regarding the Eveleth facility was previously mentioned under the
               subcommittees section.
           • The applications for the vacant committee member seat were also submitted and posted to the
               website.
        c. Adjournment
           Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 9:15pm.

Materials Included:
MCAS Results Presentation-High School and Middle School
Monthly Financial Report as of October 2022
Expenditure Report through September 2022
Schedule of Bills
Budget Directives from 11.30 Budget Subcommittee Meeting
School Committee Member Applications

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved January 5, 2023
