                  Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                 Budget Public Hearing
                                Thursday March 31, 2022
https://us06web.zoom.us/j/88434759225?pwd=SlZDUm5vUnFNM2RFYm9FZUFBUG56dz0
                                          9
                            Zoom Recording ID 884 3475 9225

Members Present:      Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron and
                      David Harris

Also:                 John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                      Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and Learning
                      Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent of Business and Operations
                      Paula Donnelly, Director of Student Services

   I.     Initial Business
          a. Call to Order
              Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:01 pm

   II.    Statement from the Chair
          Ms. Gold read a prepared statement regarding the recent loss of High School Senior,
          James Galante. She shared the committee’s deepest condolences for family and
          friends and commended all who offered support during a difficult time.

   III.   Budget Public Hearing on the Proposed FY23 School Budget
          Ms. Gold opened the public hearing at 7:03pm and reminded the community that
          they would be hearing the Superintendent’s proposed FY23 budget presented by Dr.
          Buckey, which would remain the Superintendent’s budget until voted by school
          committee at the April 7th meeting.
          Superintendent Buckey thanked the leadership team for their attendance prior to
          sharing a slideshow of the proposed budget. He explained that the budget process
          was an iterative process beginning earlier in the year with public listening sessions
          and multiple reviews with the leadership team, budget subcommittee and the Town
          and school committee. It was further explained that the FY23 budget aligns with the
          Planning for Success Initiative originally proposed back in October.
          It was noted that the budget directives consisted of the following:
           Meet contractual obligations
           Offer full day kindergarten
           Focus on offering an inclusive special education model
           Undergo a transportation audit
           Continue to address technology needs
           Address curriculum needs (staffing and specific curricula)
           Consider staffing for a shared elementary principal position
           Align facilities operating budget needs with capital requests
          A tracking sheet sharing one time vs recurring costs was shared along with a list of
          leadership team confirmed FY23 budget priorities. The requests and the reasoning
          behind why they were prioritized was included.
Superintendent Buckey included a slide on the ESSER grant funding the district
received, which totaled 1.2 million. It was of importance to note that much of the
grant money went to cleaning costs and personal protective equipment to be able to
keep the schools operational. Superintendent Buckey also provided information on
capital requests with warrant articles, vehicle requests such as for a truck with a plow
that the Town will fund and the grants and revolving funds that are considered with
the FY23 budget ask.
Public Comment
Jonathan Letterman of United Rd. inquired why a full budget roll out for review was
not posted instead of a budget supplement. He also recommended looking into the
federal census data called “Dart”
Superintendent Buckey confirmed stakeholders determined the needs and mentioned
that a budget binder has been available at Widger Rd. since December. Ms. Cresta
explained that there is line item autonomy due to line item fluctuations for staffing
adjustments until finalized for the following school year. Allocations are unable to be
confirmed until placements/positions are confirmed.
Meredith Tedford of Locust St. spoke of the ability of the Town to fund an override
request to which Superintendent Buckey shared that the Town is prepared to go for
override next year to help address ongoing budgeting concerns but that the schools
would not wait another year to provide an exemplary education.
Ms. Nancy Smith of Commercial St. shared her input as to how to manage the lunch
program in a way to attract students to join it.
Ms. Jessica Benedetto of Bradlee Rd. spoke in favor of expanding the bus pilot
program. She also inquired about the bus driver vacancies.
Ms. Cresta clarified that there are two vacant bus driver positions in the current
budget and an additional positon for the pay to ride program should it be able to be
expanded.
Mr. Jeff St. George W Shore Dr. shared his student services concerns about
professional development and spoke in favor of using a modern co-taught model to
save the district money. He also spoke in favor of funding a high school curriculum
coach for FY23.
Dr. Paula Donnelly noted that there is a favorable teacher to student ratio in
Marblehead but that the allocation of staffing throughout the course of day could be
revisited. She explained that professional development is usually grant funded which
is why it is not in the budget.
Ms. Kim Day of Liberty Rd. spoke in favor of an override and using a consultant
instead of a director for the DEI position. She also recommended sharing the position
with another district.
Assistant Principal and DEI representative, Julia Ferreira spoke in favor of filling the
DEI position in an effort to advance the DEI mission that has already begun.
      Emily DeWitt of Atlantic Av. spoke in favor of a high school curriculum director or
      coach.
      In response to Kim Day’s DEI consultant inquiry, Superintendent Buckey explained
      that several models were being explored.
      Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy shared that the vision of the position is for
      someone to be able to operationalize the DEI work while building relationships with
      other team members so they can perform their regular daily work while incorporating
      the DEI work into their teaching.
      Marblehead Teacher and DEI representative Maggie Doben explained that a
      consultant will not know the culture and climate of the district. The position will play
      a role in curriculum choice to ensure equity and how to implement the work at a
      classroom level, which a consultant cannot attain if they are not spending time in the
      district.
      Ms. Alexa Singer spoke in favor of a k-6th grade Social Studies curriculum.
      Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy noted that the district is currently dedicated to
      developing a K-12 scope and sequence and that aligning future curriculum to that
      learning roadmap would be looked into the following year. She also shared that a
      pilot program through DESE was being looked into.
      Ms. Emily DeWitt inquired why a DEI position was a current priority instead of
      curriculum coaches.
      Superintendent Buckey explained the need for a DEI position has been made clear
      with the number of hate related incidences occurring throughout the year and
      throughout many school districts.
      Ms. Barron clarified that the DEI position would incorporate curriculum concerns.
IV.   Adjournment
      Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting and the hearing at 8:33pm

      Materials Included:
      Budget Documents

      Respectfully Submitted,
      Lisa Dimier, Secretary
      Marblehead School Committee

      Approved May 19, 2022
