                       Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                 Thursday May 19, 2022 at 7:00pm
                   Address: 2 Humphrey St. Marblehead MA 01945 Room: Library
                                              -OR-
                          Zoom Conference join via the web link or Dial in
     https://us06web.zoom.us/j/86113143326?pwd=bURHU2dxRDN3YmpOSmV0ejJBNkxyQT09


        Members Present:             Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Emily Barron
        Remote Participants:         Sarah Fox and David Harris

        Also:                        John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                                     Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent of Business
                                     and Operations
                                     Mia Carr and Lauren Case, High School Students
                                     Tyler Earp, High School Student


I.      Initial Business
        a. Call to Order
            Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:01pm. She recommended taking the meeting
            out of order to hear student updates first prior to beginning the School Choice Hearing,
            which could not begin until 7:05pm.
        b. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
             Team Harmony completed the seminars for first year health classes on May 10th and
                 11th
             They also conducted a hybrid presentation on May 16th sponsored by the by Racial
                 Justice Team
             The Peer Leaders recently lead and identity activity and conducted a moment of
                 silence for the victims of hate crimes
             Junior Prom was May 13th
             Sophomore MCAS took place on May 17-18th
             The Latin Club is hosting a fundraiser the following evening
             The Cultural Fest is also scheduled for the following evening at the High School
             The Freshmen will be hosting a Spike Ball tournament on May 22nd at the High
                 School
             The Music Department will take a Music in Parks trip on Saturday May 21st at
                 Westfield State
             The National Honors Induction will be Tuesday
             An Art show is scheduled from May 18-June 3rd at Abbot Library
             Senior Project Presentations will be on May 27th, the Seniors’ last day
             Senior Prom will be at Fenway on May 31st
             Two students and the Task Force Against Discrimination will be running a
                 Juneteenth Flag Raising Ceremony on June 8th
             The Junior Class raised $38K in their class auction and will be selling shirts for
                 Senior Sunrise scheduled for June 6th.
             Seniors are selling Six Flag tickets for their senior trip and planning graduation
             A sports update was provided
      c. Commendations
         This agenda item was taken out of order and mentioned after the student representative
         updates and prior to the hearing on school choice.
             Ms. Barron commended two sophomore students that are part of the High School
                Democrat Club for the rally they held over the weekend.

         Public Hearing on School Choice for the 2022-2023 school year
         Ms. Gold called the hearing on School Choice to order at 7:05pm

         Superintendent Buckey reminded the committee that the recommendation made last year
         for opting not to participate during the 2021-2022 school year was due to considerations
         related to the drop in enrollment directly related to COVID. He further shared that after
         meeting with the leadership team, the consensus for the recommendation for the 2022-
         2023sy is to participate limiting the number of available spots to three for Kindergarten,
         two for 4th grade and five for 9th grade.

         Ms. Gold asked for a motion to participate in the choice program for the 2022-2023sy
         which was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A discussion addressing
         specific questions took place. Topics discussed included:
         -Consideration of increasing enrollment numbers and the possibility of needing to add
         class sections
         - Kindergarten tuition considerations for those students coming into Marblehead from a
         tuition-free district
         - Policy related considerations

         After a discussion and prior to taking a vote, it was recommended by committee member
         Harris to hold off with participating until more information regarding participating could
         be provided. It was mentioned that a decision would need to be submitted to the state
         prior to June 1st.

         A roll call vote was taken and the motion failed 2-3

         Ms. Gold and Ms. Fox-yes
         Mr. Harris, Ms. Taylor and Ms. Barron-no

         Ms. Gold asked for another motion for the Marblehead Pubic Schools to opt out of
         School Choice for the 2022-2023sy. The motion was moved by Mr. Harris and seconded
         by Ms. Taylor. A roll call vote was taken and the motion not to participate passed, 3-2

         Ms. Gold and Ms. Fox-no
         Mr. Harris, Ms. Taylor and Ms. Barron-yes

         Ms. Gold closed the hearing at 7:31pm.

      d. Public Comment
         None

II.   Consent Action and Agenda Items
      a. Minutes
         Ms. Gold asked for a motion to approve the minutes from 3/3/2022, 3/17/2022,
         3/31/2022 and 4/7/2022
          The motion was moved by Taylor and seconded by Mr. Harris.

          Ms. Fox pointed out a correction for editing which committee members were appointed
          to the search committees for the principal and food service director searches.

          The motion passes, 5-0

          Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Ms. Barron and Mr. Harris-all yes

III.   Superintendent Report
       a. Senior Project Updates-High School Students, Mia Carr and Lauren Case
          Seniors Mia Carr and Lauren Case presented a brochure of the mental health related
          project they have been working on. It was mentioned that they were working in
          collaboration with Massachusetts General Hospital to fund raise and spread awareness
          on teen mental health disorders Statistics were shared along with recommended coping
          mechanisms and a list of resources for those in need.

          A car wash fundraiser will be scheduled on Sunday May 22nd from 12-2.

          The students were applauded for their efforts to raise awareness of such an important
          topic.
       b. Eagle Scout Greenhouse Project Update-High School Student, Tyler Earp
          Student Tyler Earp presented a slideshow about his fundraising efforts for building a
          greenhouse and raised garden beds at the highs school. He went over fundraising and site
          conservation efforts underway. He also discussed the plan for site preparation and
          installation. It was mentioned that $25K has already been raised towards his goal of
          raising a total of $75K. To follow the progress of the project, committee members can
          visit mhsgreenhouse.org for more information.

          Committee members commended Mr. Earp for his work and ambition undertaking such
          a significant project.
       c. District Updates
          i. Early Dismissal for Last Day of School
              Superintendent Buckey explained that he has learned it has been past practice to
              make the last day of school a half day for students but not documented on the school
              year calendar. He asked that the committee consider adopting a half day of school for
              students on the last day during the 2021-2022sy and going forward.

              Ms. Gold asked for a motion to memorialize the last day of school as noon release
              this year and going forward. The motion was moved my Mr. Harris and seconded by
              Ms. Taylor.

              A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 5-0.
              Ms. Gold, Mr. Harris, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Barron and Ms. Fox-all yes
          ii. Superintendent Self Evaluation
              It was explained that Dr. Buckey’s self-evaluation along with supporting documents
              had been provided to the committee for review. Individual member evaluations
              should be turned in by June 2nd so that a summative could be compiled and provided
              to the committee with ample time before the meeting on the 16th.

IV.    Finance and Organizational Support
       a. Schedules
       A motion to approve schedule of bills totaling 1,294,094.64. The motion was moved by Ms.
       Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 5-0.

       Ms. Gold, Mr. Harris, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Barron and Ms. Fox-all yes

V.     School Committee and/or Discussion Items
       a. Payroll Grievance Update
          Ms. Gold shared that there was a recent meeting with the Interim Town administrator
          last week to follow up on a payroll grievance and it was shared that the Town continues
          to work on and address concerns brought forth by the education association, MEA.
       b. Appointment of Mark Strout as representative to the Essex North Shore Agricultural and
          Technical School
          Ms. Gold asked for a motion to approve Mark Strout for a new 3-year term as
          Marblehead Town Representative to the Board of Trustees for the Essex North Shore
          Agricultural and Technical School.

          The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Mr. Harris.

          A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 5-0
          Ms. Gold, Mr. Harris, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Barron and Ms. Fox-all yes
       c. Review of Policy IKF-Graduation Requirements
          Ms. Gold shared that small adjustments to the graduation policy were made to reflect
          updates to the program of studies. The following adjustments would be made to the
          revised policy:

          -Four years of mathematics would no longer include an integrated equivalent
          -Engineering, separate from physics, should be included with the four-year requirement
           for lab based physics
          -The two-year requirement for foreign language will need to include the same foreign
            language

          Ms. Gold mentioned that the revisions will be brought back to the committee for a vote
          on June 2nd.
       d. Subcommittee and Liaisons Update
           One more policy meeting will be held in June
           The Cultural Fest will take place the following evening on May 20th at the high
              school
       e. New Business
          None
       f. Correspondence
          Ms. Gold noted the few pieces of correspondence received regarding stained glass
          windows and an essay from a former student pertaining to out of school suspensions.


At 8:05pm, Ms. Gold made a motion and vote to meet in Executive Session pursuant to
Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A, section 21(a) for the following purpose: purpose (3) to
discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the Marblehead Education Association
MEA Unit A members if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position
of the School Committee and the chair so declares

The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron and a roll call vote was taken
with the motion passing 5-0.
Ms. Gold, Mr. Harris, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Barron and Ms. Fox-all yes


Meeting in Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A, section 21(a)
for purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the Marblehead
Education Association MEA, specifically, Unit A members regarding sick days with no intent to
return to open session.

Materials Included:
Memo on School Choice
School Choice Policy JFBB
Student Mental Health Brochure
Superintendent SMART Goals
Memo Schedule of Bills
Correspondence Re:Essex Tech Representative
Graduation Requirements Policy IKF
Correspondence on Out of School Suspension

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved June 23, 2022
