                       Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                     Monday August 29, 2022
                                            6:00pm

                           Zoom Recording ID: https://marbleheadschools-
          org.zoom.us/j/97503094523?pwd=eWlMOE1aN29aN1ZmVnNxVGxXMHdvUT09

Members Present:       Sarah Fox, Sarah Gold, Alison Taylor and
Remote Participation
Members Absent:        Meagan Taylor

Also:                  John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                       Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                       Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance
                       Mary Talbot, Glover Nurse Nomination
                       Muffy Paquette-Booster’s President

I.      Initial Business
        a. Call to Order
            Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 6pm
        b. Commendations
            Administration and custodians were recognized for their work over the summer
            months to prepare for staff returning on September 30th.
        c. Public Comment

II.     Review of 2022-2023sy School Handbooks
        Ms. Fox explained that the handbooks presented included legal recommended edits that
        would bring the District into compliance with updated laws.

        Prior to voting the handbooks, Ms. Gold spoke in favor of discussing best practices for
        streamlining updates to the policies in the handbooks and troubleshooting ideas on how
        to address handbook revisions as policy edits occur.

        Ms. Fox made a motion to approve the changes to the Elementary School Handbooks as
        presented which was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor.

        Prior to a roll call vote being taken, Ms. Barron spoke in favor of ensuring a consistent
        dress code amongst all buildings.

        Superintendent Buckey confirmed the approval of all school handbooks clarifying that
        the school improvement plans would be broken up in future meetings and not the
        handbooks.

        Ms. Alison Taylor amended the motion to approve all handbooks which was seconded by
        Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 4-0

        Ms. Barron-yes
        Ms. Gold-yes
       Ms. Alison Taylor-yes
       Ms. Fox-yes

III.   Appointment of School Nurse(s)
       Superintendent Buckey introduced Ms. Mary Talbot to join the Glover School as the new
       nurse. After Ms. Talbot provided some background information pertaining to her work
       history, the committee welcomed her and a motion was made to appoint Ms. Mary Talbot
       as the school nurse at the Glover School. It was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms.
       Barron. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 4-0

       Ms.Barron-yes
       Ms. Gold-yes
       Ms. Alison Taylor-yes
       Ms. Fox-yes

IV.    Review of Policies and Adoption of Procedures:
       a. ac-nondiscrimination
       b. aca-nondiscrimination on the basis of sex
       c. acab-sexual harassment
       d. ac-r-nondiscrimination and harassment
       e. Procedure for policy ij-r-reconsideration of instructional resources
       f. Grievance Procedures-Title IX and Civil Rights Grievances
       Ms. Gold provided an overview of the policy edits as recommended by legal noting that
       certain policies would be rescinded. She also acknowledged the recommended adoption
       of new procedures pertaining to the reconsideration of instructional materials and Civil
       Rights and Title IX Grievances.

       It was explained by Superintendent Buckey that legal was scheduled to present on
       investigative procedures related to bullying and harassment, proper restraint procedures
       and mandated reporter education.

V.     Enrollment and Staffing Updates
       Superintendent Buckey informed the committee that a number of vacant staff positions
       were filled internally. He noted the high staff retention rate and provided an update on the
       unfilled positions. It was mentioned that support staff and bus driver positions remained
       the most challenging to fill. Superintendent Buckey further explained that Principals were
       working through plans for backfilling positions until permanent hires could be confirmed.

       Superintendent Buckey explained that a nearly 10% enrollment increase occurred over
       the summer in which increases were documented at each grade level excluding the 4th
       and 10th grades. Ms. Fox noted the importance of the enrollment increases being factored
       into future budgeting.

VI.    Schedule of Bills
       A motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $1,165,116.65 was made
       and it was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms. A. Taylor. A roll call vote was taken
       and the motion passes, 4-0.

       Ms. Barron-yes
       Ms. Gold-yes
       Ms. Alison Taylor-yes
       Ms. Fox-yes

VII.   Stipend Equipment and Discussion for Hybrid Meetings
       As a follow up to the discussion which occurred at the retreat in July, Ms. Fox asked for a
       motion to approve the presented quote for the Poly Studio X70 video conferencing kit
       and stand in the amount of $5,690.26 along with the stipend for technologist to assist
       with running the hybrid School Committee meetings. The motion was moved by Ms.
       Alison Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron. A roll call vote was taken and the motion
       passes, 4-0.

       Ms. Barron-yes
       Ms. Gold-yes
       Ms. Taylor-yes
       Ms. Fox-yes

VIII. Booster’s Advertising Discussion
      Booster’s President, Muffy Paquette was in attendance to seek approval of the School
      Committee to hang Booster’s banners at field locations throughout the District.
      Ms. Fox made a motion to approve the Marblehead Boosters to hang and sell banners to
      be placed at Hopkins Field at the Village School and the Softball Fields at the Veterans
      School in accordance with the rules and regulations granted prior concerning advertising
      sales.

       Ms. Gold reminded the committee that part of old motion included a two year
       sponsorship clarifying that if the approval to rescind took place, the sponsorship would
       cease at the two year mark from the originally voted date. The motion was moved by Ms.
       Gold and seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor. A roll call vote was taken and the motion
       passes, 4-0.

       Ms. Barron-yes
       Ms. Gold-yes
       Ms. Alison Taylor-yes
       Ms. Fox-yes

       After the banner approval vote, Ms. Paquette provided an update on the Forever Fan
       Project sharing that the fundraising is underway and that the Booster’s have raised about
       $40k of the $70K anticipated for the cost of the project.
IX.    Closing Business
       a. New Business
          Ms. Fox reminded members to familiarize themselves with current protocols as well
          as the recommended MASC protocols as they would be on next agenda.

          Ms. Fox also mentioned that Superintendent Buckey would be providing an update at
          a September meeting on dual enrollment with Salem State. Ms. Fox also shared that
          Superintendent Buckey would be providing a future update on a company called
          Thought Exchange that the District would be contracting with.

          Ms. Taylor requested an update on k-3 schedules at the next scheduled meeting.
          Ms. Gold also mentioned revisiting the discussion from the retreat about a curriculum
          subcommittee.
       b. Correspondence
          Ms. Fox noted the correspondence emailed from Ms. Muffy Paquette regarding
          Boosters banner placement and promotion that was discussed earlier in the meeting.
       c. Adjournment
          Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 7:04pm.

Materials Included:
Handbooks
Nurse Resume-Mary Talbot
Policy Revision and Adopted Procedures
Memorandum-Enrollment and Staffing Update
Booster’s Correspondence-Banner Promotions
Technology Quote for School Committee Equipment
Policy KHB-Advertising in Schools

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved September 22, 2022
