                         Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                    Wednesday September 7, 2022
                                              7:00pm

                             Zoom Recording ID: https://marbleheadschools-
               org.zoom.us/j/98220391510?pwd=SklxUnIycnFLOGNZa2pBcjl2TU55UT09

Members Present:        Sarah Fox, Sarah Gold, Alison Taylor and Meagan Taylor
Remote Participation

Also:                           John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                                Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                                Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance
                                Caja Johnson, METCO Director
                                Mary Maxfield, Brown School Principal
                                Hope Doran, Glover School Principal

I.      Initial Business
        a. Call to Order
            Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00pm
        b. Commendations
            Ms. Taylor recognized the staff and administrators for preparing the schools for the first day.
            Ms. Fox commended staff and students who returned to fully in person recognizing that it may
            be difficult for some.
        c. Public Comment
            Shannon Borthwick commented on the elementary schedule and voiced her concern about
            removing the additional recess block.

II.     Consent Action and Agenda Items
        a. Minutes- 6/8/2022, 6/13/2022 and 6/16/2022
           Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the minutes from 6/8/2022, 6/13/2022 and 6/16/2022
           The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms. Meaghan Taylor
           A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes 4-0-1.

           Ms. Barron-yes
           Ms. Gold-yes
           Ms. A Taylor-abstained
           Ms. M Taylor-yes
           Ms. Fox-yes
        b. Appointment of School Nurse(s)
           Ms. Fox shared that a school nurse had not yet been recommended and would remain on the
           agenda as a placeholder item until a candidate is brought forth.

III.    Superintendent Report
        a. Opening Day Update
           Superintendent Buckey provided and update about three scheduled professional development
           days and the opening day of school. He noted that support staff were included in the focused
           professional development days and that internal staff lead trainings throughout the district, which
           was well received. An update on remaining open positions was provided.
           i. District Updates-Company-Thought Exchange
               This item was taken out of order and discussed prior to the forum date and topics discussion.
        b. Metropolitan Council for Educational Opportunity, METCO- Director Introduction
           The new METCO Director Caja Johnson was introduced prior to the ThoughtExchange
           discussion. Superintendent Buckey commended Ms. Johnson on prioritizing relationships early
           to begin to understand and prioritize student needs. Ms. Johnson shared that she obtained her
           Bachelor’s degree in psychology and her Master’s degree in education. She further shared that
         she has served as the Chair of the human rights committee in Beverly and a representative on
         their racial equity taskforce and civil rights review board. Ms. Johnson expressed her gratitude
         for the warm welcome and discussed her plan to remain visible in the community while focusing
         her efforts on building relationships.
      c. Kindergarten through 3rd Grade Scheduling Update-Brown and Glover School Principals
         Brown and Glover School Principals provided an update on the Kindergarten through 3rd grade
         scheduling changes. It was shared that transition times, snack and movement breaks along with
         other curriculum requirements were taken into consideration in an effort to support the best
         environment for student learning.

          A conversation about an additional recess and meeting state mandated time on learning
          requirements took place. During the conversation, the possibility of extending the school day in
          the future was mentioned.

          After a committee member raised concerns about how the schedules were shared with families,
          Superintendent Buckey did confirm that multiple meetings were held with the scheduling
          committee and staff regarding scheduling adjustments to address any concerns prior to being
          shared with the community.

IV.   School Committee and or Discussion Items
      As a follow up from a previous meeting, it was confirmed that there was no obligation to have both a
      male and female Title IX Coordinator.
      a. Review and vote of policies and procedures:
          Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the revisions to policy ac-nondiscrimination as presented
          by legal.
          The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor
          A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes 5-0.

          Ms. Barron-yes
          Ms. Gold-yes
          Ms. A Taylor-yes
          Ms. M Taylor-yes
          Ms. Fox-yes

          Ms. Fox asked for a motion to rescind policies aca-nondiscrimination on the basis of sex,
          acab-sexual harassment, ac-r-nondiscrimination and harassment as recommended by legal.
          The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor
          A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes 5-0.

          Ms. Barron-yes
          Ms. Gold-yes
          Ms. A Taylor-yes
          Ms. M Taylor-yes
          Ms. Fox-yes

          Ms. Fox asked for a final motion to adopt the grievance procedures for both Tilte IX and Civil
          Rights as presented by legal.The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Emily Barron
          A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes 5-0.

          Ms. Barron-yes
          Ms. Gold-yes
          Ms. A Taylor-yes
          Ms. M Taylor-yes
          Ms. Fox-yes
   Ms. Fox asked for a final motion to adopt the procedure for the reconsideration of instructional
   resources. The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms. Meagan Taylor.
   A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes 5-0

   Ms. Barron-yes
   Ms. Gold-yes
   Ms. A Taylor-yes
   Ms. M Taylor-yes
   Ms. Fox-yes

   Superintendent Buckey commended the librarians on their accomplishments with completing the
   process for a procedure for the reconsideration of instructional resources noting how long it had
   been in the works.

b. School Committee Protocols Review
   Ms. Fox asked for discussion regarding protocols. Ms. Meagan Taylor reminded the committee
   that a comprehensive review of protocols took place a few years prior. A further discussion
   about holding each other accountable to protocols and the process to follow came up.

   Ms. Meagan Taylor made a motion to approve the operating protocols as presented which was
   seconded by Ms. Gold. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes 5-0

   Ms. Barron-yes
   Ms. Gold-yes
   Ms. A Taylor-yes
   Ms. M Taylor-yes
   Ms. Fox-yes

c. Review of Subcommittees and Meeting Dates Discussion
   Ms. Fox noted the first November meeting will be scheduled for Wednesday November 2nd
   instead of Thursday the 3rd to avoid conflicts with the MASC/MASS joint conference.

   Ms. Fox also recommended holding the 1st, 3rd and 5th weeks in March for meetings to
   accommodate budgeting needs.

   Ms. Fox also recommended keeping the one meeting for April and revisiting the need for a
   second meeting during the month of March.

   Ms. Fox reminded the committee about scheduling regular subcommittee meetings.
   Ms. Meagan Taylor inquired about receiving alerts about subcommittee meetings.
   Ms. Fox updated the committee about the building committee discussion regarding the
   installation of the fields at the Brown School and further work that will need to be done to
   address the original installation.

   Ms. Gold shared her research and recommendation for a curriculum and instruction
   subcommittee and Assistant Superintendent Nan Murphy further informed the committee of the
   benefits the committee would bring in support of student achievement.

   A discussion regarding the parameters of the committee and whether it should be considered a
   subcommittee or piloted as a Superintendent’s Advisory committee took place.

   Ms. Gold shared a video link with the committee to review the subcommittee meetings from
   Beverly for reference.
           Superintendent Buckey presented the idea to have a subcommittee for developing and reviewing
           Superintendent Goals. The subcommittee was not discussed as Ms. Fox realized she had skipped
           over Dr. Buckey’s earlier update on ThoughtExchange.

           Dr. Buckey explained that ThoughExchange could be used for collecting public input and
           increasing two-way communication. He further explained that it could be translated into multiple
           languages and survey participants could vote on other participants’ comments unanimously. It
           was explained that ThoughExchange would be a great resource for collecting information
           pertaining to forum topics.

       d. Forum Topics and Dates Discussion
          Ms. Fox spoke in favor of holding three to four focused forum topics annually and utilizing
          ThoughtExchange to determine forum topics.

           After a committee member inquired about the cost, it was mentioned that ThoughtExchange cost
           about $20k annually. The district is able to secure a better rate and would use ESSER grants to
           fund the use of the product during the first year to determine if the product would be a good fit
           for Marblehead.

V.     Closing Business
       a. New Business
           Ms. Fox requested that the policy subcommittee review MGL for adopting twenty-five
              minute lunch breaks for staff.
           Ms. Alison Taylor requested that the dress code policy be reviewed to ensure alignment
              across buildings.
           Ms. Taylor requested that new business be used for items not reasonably anticipated 48
              hours in advance of the meeting
       b. Correspondence
           MASC Resolution
           Emails requesting emails be added to correspondence

          Ms. Gold inquired about clarification on which requests should qualify and be submitted as
          correspondence.
       c. Adjournment
          Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 9:49pm.

Materials Included:
Memorandum:ThoughtExchange
Elementary School Schedules-Brown and Glover Schools
Revised Policy-ac-nondiscrimination
Rescinded Policies:
aca-nondiscrimination on the basis of sex
acab-sexual harassment
ac-r-nondiscrimination and harassment
Adopted Grievance Procedures-Title IX and Civil Rights
Adopted Procedure for the Reconsideration o Instructional Resources
School Committee Operating Protocols
Subcommittee and Liaisons Assignments
Memorandum-Curriculum and Instruction Subcommittee
Correspondence-bussing, elementary schedules and MASC resolution

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved October 6, 2022
