                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                          Thursday March 3, 2022 at 7:00pm
                           Marblehead High School-Library

Members Present:               Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Emily Barron, David Harris
Remote Participants:           Sarah Fox

Also:                  John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                       Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance and Operation
                       Merle Schell and Jennifer Jackson, SEPAC Co-Chairs
                       Dan Bauer, High School Principal

I.   Initial Business
     a. Call to Order
         Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:00pm.She explained that the high
         school schedule update would be postponed while concerns that were raised
         earlier that afternoon at the school advisory council meeting be addressed prior
         to presenting.
     b. Commendations
         Mr. Harris commended the boys ski team for their MIAA Alpine Ski championship
         win on March 1st. He also recognized Kate Honos and Baxter Jennings for
         finishing in 1st and 2nd place in the Giant Slalom.
         Ms. Gold commended the Swim and Dive team for finishing in 2nd place. She
         also congratulated the four students who attended the All-State Choir
         Competition.
     c. Public Comment
         Jonathan Letterman spoke in favor of having meeting material packets posted
         earlier than before the meetings to allow for thoughtful questions. He also spoke
         in favor of allowing the public to participate in meetings remotely.

II. Consent Action and Agenda Items
    a. Minutes:
       8/9/2021, 8/26/2021, 10/7/2021, 10/19/2021, 10/21/2021 and 10/28/2021.
       Ms. Gold asked for a motion to approve the 8/9/2021 minutes first after Ms. Fox
       reminded her that herself and Ms. Taylor were not present at that meeting and
       would abstain from voting. The motion was moved by Mr. Harris and seconded
       by Ms. Barron and a roll call vote was taken with the motion passing 3-0-2.

        Ms. Fox and Ms. Taylor-abstained
        Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor and Mr. Harris-all yes

        Ms. Gold asked for a second motion to approve the minutes from 8/26/2021,
        10/7/2021, 10/19/2021, 10/21/2021 and 10/28/2021. The motion was moved by
        Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Barron and a roll call vote was taken with the
        motion passing 5-0.
        Ms. Fox, Mr. Harris, Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor and Ms. Barron all yes
III. Superintendent Report
     a. Parent Advisory Council (SEPAC) Presentation
        SEPAC Co-Chairs, Merle Schell and Jennifer Jackson shared recent survey
        results from parents and commended their secretary for compiling results. It was
        explained that survey results consisted of compiling data on the social emotional
        wellness of high school students. Concerns pertaining to anxiety, social skills and
        ADHD were highlighted. It was mentioned that SEPAC would be using the
        information to understand how to better support the student community.

       It was also mentioned that SEPAC meets on the first Tuesday of each month at
       10am and on the third Wednesday of the month at 7pm. Additional meetings are
       held each month during the lunch hour at 12pm with Student Services Director,
       Dr. Paula Donnelly.

      A presentation on ableism would be held at the end of the month and the Unsung
      heroes event will be planned as a virtual event.
   b. High School Updates-Principal, Dan Bauer
      i) Schedules Update
          Postponed
      ii) Proposed Program of Studies changes 2022-2023 school year
          Principal Bauer provided an update on the proposed program of studies for
          the 2022-2023 school year. He explained that he would provide a schedule
          update within two weeks at the next regularly scheduled school committee
          meeting.
           The following program of study updates were shared:

              AP European History will be an option for the 2022-2023 school year and
               will be explained as part of the schedule update along with the 35 credits
               per year piece
              The Essex After Dark Program will be available for students interested in
               vocational educational opportunities focused on technical career paths.
              Advanced manufacturing pathway courses will be offered and is still in the
               development process
              RTI-Response to Intervention Program will be offered in math, English
               and science
              A college and career block will be added and the Preparing for Life After
               High School course will be eliminated
              Mindfulness electives will be offered during the new MAGIC block
              English electives will be offered
              Curriculum support blocks through the student services department will
               be available
              World language courses will have honors levels options
           A series of clarifying questions relating to the MAGIC block, the Advanced
           Manufacturing Pathways Program and honors level/advanced placement
           course offerings was discussed.
   c. District Updates
      i) FY23 budget update
          Superintendent Buckey explained that due to the Town transitioning to a new
          Interim Town Administrator, limited additional progress towards the FY23
          budget occurred since the last update. Conversations about the funding of
          out of district tuition costs were ongoing and the priorities have been
          confirmed with the leadership team. He shared that conversations with other
          school districts were scheduled to discuss their successful overrides. A
          budget subcommittee meeting will be held on Thursday the 10th. The Town
          Finance Committee is expected to vote the school budget on March 28th with
          the public hearing scheduled for the 31st.

           A current tracking sheet, confirmed list of priorities and an up to date budget
           summary sheet were all shared.

           Ms. Gold voiced her support of the budget noting the amount of work that has
           gone into the override ask. Ms. Fox agreed with the choice of an override
           sharing it has been needed for many years. Ms. Fox spoke in favor of making
           some adjustments pertaining to advanced placement classes, a grant writer
           position, curriculum coaches and a DEI position.

           A conversation about how a DEI Director would be involved in curriculum
           planning took place. Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy explained that
           job descriptions for the DEI position were being reviewed in preparation for
           the budget passing.

           Ms. Fox requested that the budget hearing be held virtually on the 31st.

            Prior to discussing the Town Report, the administrative team was excused
            from the rest of the meeting.
       ii) Town Report Submission 2020-2021 school year
            Superintendent Buckey mentioned that the Town Report was being submitted
            with contributions from the leadership team. Ms. Fox shared a few small
            corrections prior to submitting.
       iii) Director of Food Services Position
            The Director of food Services, Richard Kelleher will be retiring at the end of
            the school year and Superintendent Buckey and the committee commended
            him on his tenure sharing how missed he will be.

IV. Finance and Organizational Support
    a. Monthly Financial Report with COVID Expenditures
       Ms. Cresta informed the committee that the district had expended 45% of their
       operating budget. It was shared that deficits were expected in the out of district
       tuition funds, which should be able to be covered from funds carried over from
       circuit breaker from the previous year. 65% of the substitute budget line has been
       utilized with a onetime COVID sick time reimbursement from the state, which will
       help to credit that account. 73% of the custodian overtime pay account has been
       used and deficits should be able to be covered from excess funds from the
       custodial salary accounts. Ms. Cresta also shared an update on the ESSER
       grant funds sharing that about $480k of the grant III was still available to use for
       up to 2.5years.

      When asked, Ms. Cresta shared that utility reserve funds were expected to kick
      in sometime in April.
   b. Schedules
      Ms. Gold asked for a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $764,454.94
      The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Mr. Harris. A roll call vote
      was taken and the motion passes 5-0

       Ms. Fox, Mr. Harris, Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor and Ms. Baron-all yes,

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion Items
   a. Protocol Review
      Ms. Gold mentioned that following the protocols should be a goal for the
      remainder of the year as COVID had shifted priorities and roles a bit.

      Ms. Taylor also reminded the committee that scheduling weekly meetings with
      the Superintendent was encouraged and beneficial.
   b. Subcommittee and Liaisons Updates
       Some final work was completed at the Brown School
       A building committee meeting is scheduled for the 24th with one last update
       Fence work will occur in the Spring
       Ms. Barron went to the racial justice team METCO presentation and METCO
          will begin a 2.0 program to focus on making the program better
       Ms. Barron shared that she has obtained the list of school owned properties
          so that the facilities subcommittee could move forward with the MOU with the
          Town
       Mr. Harris explained that through the recommendation of Gilbane, the district
          was going to apply to an accelerated repair plan through the MSBA for repair
          of the high school roof

VI. Closing Business
    a. New Business
       Ms. Fox inquired about owl cameras for hybrid meetings
    b. Correspondence
    c. Adjournment
       Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 8:40pm.
Materials Included:
Memorandum-High School Program of Studies
Budget tracking priorities and summary sheet
Town Report Submission
Memorandum-Financials Report as of 1.1.2022
Expenditure Report
Schedule of Bills
School Committee Protocols

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved May 19, 2022
