                          Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                        Thursday April 28, 2022
                                    Marblehead High School-Library

         Members Present:                Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Emily Barron and David
                                         Harris
         Remote Participants:            Sarah Fox

         Also:                           John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                                         Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent of Business and
                                         Operations
                                         Gina Hart, High School Social Worker

Link: https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/j/96438056573?pwd=bzZRZE0vdEhrZlBFcm16bmFuaml2QT09

   I.    Initial Business
         a. Call to Order
              Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:05 pm.
         b. Commendations
              None
         c. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
              Mr. Colon would join the next regularly scheduled school committee meeting.
         d. Public Comment
               Josh Baron of Vassar Rd. inquired, after hearing what he termed “troubling comments”,
                  about the process in place for ensuring that student accommodations for children of school
                  committee members are equal for members of the community. He further inquired about
                  what process was or should be in place for further investigating the validity of the
                  comments.
               Jessica Benedetto of Bradlee Rd. spoke about bus runs and the opportunity to add additional
                  riders. She spoke in favor of adding Veterans students to the Pay to Ride program contingent
                  upon available seats and an additional bus driver.
               Catherine Martin of W. Shore Dr. shared her disagreement with no committee member
                  intervening during an earlier public comment that referenced “privilege protected
                  information regarding children’s disabilities in their IEP’s.”

         Prior to Ms. Hart presenting her survey, Ms. Fox asked for a motion to adjourn for a brief five-
         minute recess. The motion was seconded by Ms. Barron and a roll vote was taken, passing 5-0. Ms.
         Gold noted that the meeting would return at 7:19pm.

         Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Barron, Mr. Harris and Ms. Fox-all yes.

         Ms. Gold called the meeting back to order at 7:19pm.

   II.   Superintendent Report
         a. Youth Risk Behavior Survey Presentation-Social Worker, Gina Hart
            High School Social Worker, Ms. Gina Hart presented the results of a youth at risk behavior
            survey sharing that just under 600 students from across all four high school grade levels
            participated in the anonymous survey. It was explained that the survey looked at how certain risk
            related and protective factors made students more vulnerable towards or protected against
            substance abuse and mental health concerns.
         b. District Updates
             The stipend committee continues to meet to discuss stipends and review the categories and
                 steps of each category.
              The principal search for the Brown School is wrapping up and a recommendation should be
               shared with the committee at the next school committee meeting.

III.   Finance and Organizational Support
       a. Monthly Financial Report
           Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations, Ms. Michelle Cresta shared a monthly
           financial report as of March 31, 2022 sharing that 61% of the operating budget had been
           expended. It was mentioned that deficits were expected in the out of district tuition and out of
           district transportation accounts along with the custodian over time account. She noted that the
           substitute account would also have been in deficit without the one-time $100,000.00 expenditure
           offset from the state for COVID sick time reimbursement. Ms. Cresta also included an update on
           COVID related ESSER grant funds availability as of March 31, 2022.
       b. Schedules
           Ms. Gold asked for a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $554,906.94. The motion
           was moved Mr. Harris and seconded by Ms. Taylor with a roll call vote all in favor, 5-0.

           Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Barron, Ms. Fox and Mr. Harris-all yes.

IV.    School Committee and/or Discussion Items
       Ms. Gold asked that the Article 33 discussion be taken out of order and discussed first as a member
       of the Park and Rec was in attendance.

       A conversation regarding the consideration of property liability and transferring the ownership of the
       property located at the Beacon and Green Streets to the Town took place. After a discussion
       regarding the use of the property by the BikMor group occurred, Ms. Gold asked for a motion to
       transfer the parcel of land known as Beacon Street with parcel identification number 169200 shown
       on the assessor’s map as map 159 lot 20 to the care and custody of the recreation and park
       department. The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox with a roll call vote
       taken, passing the motion 5-0.

       Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Barron, Ms. Fox and Mr. Harris-all yes.

       Ms. Gold asked for a second motion to support Article 33 at the annual town meeting.
       The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox with a roll call vote taken, with the
       motion passing 5-0.

       Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Barron, Ms. Fox and Mr. Harris-all yes.

       a. Town Meeting Presentation Discussion
          Ms. Gold mentioned providing an opportunity for committee members to comment on what it is
          they feel may be important to be included in the presentation to be shared at Town Meeting. She
          also recommended that Superintendent Buckey and committee member Mr. Harris be the
          representatives to present Article 46.

           Ms. Taylor spoke in favor of supporting the recommendations for representatives.

           Mr. Harris clarified that although Interim Town Administrator John McGinn would present
           Article 11, members should have specific information pertaining to the article readily available
           for questions such as information regarding the roofing and technology related budget requests
           for example.

           Ms. Fox shared her interest in serving as the representative to answer questions pertaining to
           facilities under that Article. It was also asked that the IT Director provide additional information
           regarding the technology request for quick reference.
         Ms. Gold also noted the importance of including information regarding benefits related costs
         associated with the Town and the larger facilities discussion to memorialize addressing the
         ownership and use of school owned properties.

         Ms. Gold mentioned that it was of importance to address some misunderstandings out in the
         community pertaining to staffing and program cuts sharing that if the override did not pass, no
         staff or programs would be cut.

        A conversation regarding the budget priority needs and increasing expenses due to postponing
        certain requests took place.
     b. Superintendent Evaluation Discussion
        Ms. Gold recommended that the Superintendent’s self-evaluation be presented on May 19th with
        individual evaluations being turned in by June 2nd with the summative to be presented at the June
        16th meeting.

         Ms. Fox requested that a staff survey for the evaluation of the Superintendent be sent out and
         shared with the committee. Committee members Gold and Taylor did not support the idea of a
         survey as it was explained by Superintendent Buckey that most surrounding districts did not
         complete one. It was also noted that the MEA was not in support of generating a survey to send
         out to staff.

        Ms. Fox made a motion to work with Ms. Barron to create a staff survey to evaluate
        Superintendent Buckey for the committee to review prior to sending out. The motion was not
        seconded and Ms. Gold spoke against going over the decision of the MEA to facilitate such a
        survey. Committee member Harris recommended exploring the possibility of a survey for the
        following year.
     c. Article 33-Allocation of Land for Off-Road Bike Park Discussion
        This agenda item was taken out of order and discussed before the Town meeting presentation
        discussion.
     d. The Metropolitan Council for Educational Opportunity METCO-Parent Representative Process
        Ms. Barron shared the Bedford and Lincoln Public Schools policy for having a METCO
        representative on the school committee. A discussion about how to proceed with determining
        who the representative would be took place. It was mentioned that the position could be further
        discussed at the meeting on May 5th scheduled at the METCO headquarters.
        e. Subcommittee and Liaisons Updates
             Ms. Barron shared that the METCO program currently has representatives in each
                school
             The Cultural Fest will be Friday, May 20th at the high school
             Mr. Harris shared some photos of new fencing that was put up at the Brown School,
                photos of some raised garden beds and the playground.
             Mr. Harris shared that the project has received 95 % reimbursement from the MSBA and
                the final audit will be completed soon.

V.   Closing Business
     a. New Business
        Ms. Gold discussed the option for transportation to the METCO headquarters for the meeting the
        following week.

        Superintendent Buckey explained that the committee is scheduled to take a tour of the
        headquarters with dinner with METCO families to follow just before the start of the school
        committee meeting scheduled for 7pm.
     b. Correspondence
        Ms. Gold mentioned the Article 33 correspondence discussed earlier in the meeting.
        Ms. Fox shared that Jean Skaane reached out to inquire about attending a school committee to
        discuss the mindfulness work she lead in district this year.
          Prior to adjourning the meeting, recently deceased former Glover School teacher, Ms. Brooke
          Yanow was remembered and condolences went out to her family and friends. Ms. Gold
          recognized the number of impacted lives from her years of service in district.
       c. Adjournment
          Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:06pm.

Materials Included:
Behavior at Risk Survey Presentation
Monthly Financial Report
ESSER Grant Status Report
Scheduled of Bills $554,906.94
Article 33 and Green Street Wood Correspondence
Sample METCO Representative Policies-Bedford and Lincoln

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved June 2, 2022
