                           Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                         Thursday January 6, 2022
                                                 7:00pm

        https://us06web.zoom.us/j/89543432950?pwd=RE9CZFpQN0JZYkZhWTZOMldMclBsdz09
                                      Zoom Recording ID 895 4343 2950

Members Present:         Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Sarah Fox, Emily Barron, David Harris

Also:                    John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                         Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance

I.   Initial Business and Public Comment
     a. Call to Order
          Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:00pm.
     b. Commendations
           Superintendent Buckey thanked staff that worked over the weekend to distribute rapid tests to
              all staff prior to returning from December break.
           Ms. Fox commended high school students Mimi Fallon, Carrie Linde and Courtney Duffy for
              winning the New York Times Coming of Age Contest.
           Mr. Harris congratulated Town Administrator, Jason Silva on his new position and thanked
              him for his partnership with the schools over his three years in Marblehead.
     c. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
           The Boys Soccer coach won coach of the year from Salem News
           The band, chorus and orchestra held winter concert on 12/20
           A Fundraiser for post grads was held on 12/21 and the National French Honor Society also
              held a fundraiser for the Development Institute on 12/22
           The school newspaper is coming soon
           A math meet was held earlier that day at the high school
           Team Harmony is working on a presentation for the middle school focusing on ending bias
              and discrimination
           The sophomores are preparing for their semi-formal
           The junior class will have and online popcorn fundraiser
           The seniors canceled their winter dance and are beginning to prepare for their senior show
           A sports update was provided
     d. Public Comment
           Sondra Callahan of Naugus Rd shared her concerns regarding adjustments to the COVID
              dashboard and how results would be reported going forward
           Jess Benedetto of Bradley Rd. spoke in favor of working towards a safer and reliable
              transportation system for the majority of parents that have remained working in-person
              throughout the pandemic.
           Elaine Lahey of Ida Rd. commended the sustainability committee for a productive meeting
              earlier that day.

II. Consent Action and Agenda Items
    a. Minutes
       5/6/2021, 5/13/2021, 5/19/2021 and 5/20/2021
       Prior to asking for a motion, Ms. Fox noted an edit under the discussion about sustainability.

          Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the minutes from May 6t, 13th, 19th and 2021. The motion
        was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox. A roll call vote was taken and the motion
        passes, 5-0.

        Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Harris and Ms. Barron-all yes.

III. Superintendent Report
     a. District Updates
        Superintendent Buckey shared that a productive sustainability discussion has begun.
         An electric bus company just recently presented to the committee and will visit later in the
             month.
         Signs have been posted at schools in support of the no idling campaign.

             A joint budget meeting was held with the Town prior to break and the leadership team met
             Monday to review budget priorities. A budget subcommittee meeting will be held the
             following Monday with a joint meeting to follow with the Town on Tuesday.

             Superintendent Buckey shared how thankful he was for being able to remain learning in-
             person. He reminded the committee that the number of absences that could impede the safe
             operations of school are closely monitored, daily by building administrators. He also thanked
             the nurses for their work with monitoring absences.

             A conversation with the lead and COVID coordinator nurses about how the positive COVID
             cases are reported took place. Nurse McMahon clarified that even students living outside of
             Marblehead are reported to the Board of Health if a positive case can be confirmed.

        i.   2022-2023 Draft Calendar Discussion
             Superintendent Buckey presented two draft calendars for the 2022-2023 school year noting
             that one begins the year before Labor Day and one after. It was mentioned that both calendars
             include input from a Superintendent’s Coffee held on December 20th. It was mentioned that
             both calendars have also been shared with the MEA.

             A discussion about the positives and challenges of each calendar took place and
             Superintendent Buckey noted concerns in consideration of the final calendar he would
             present at the next meeting.

IV. Finance and Organizational Support
    a. Monthly Finance Update
        Assistant Superintendent of Business and Operations provided a monthly financial report as of
        November 30th including a COVID expenditures update and a budget transfer listing. It was
        reported that 26% of the operating budget has been expended. Accounts with projected deficits
        were noted and it was explained that all of the COVID funding sources except for ESSER grants
        have been used as of December 30th. It was mentioned that remaining ESSER funds not already
        allocated would be put towards meeting students’ needs.
    b. Schedules
        Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $ 2,104,357.53. The motion was
        moved by Ms. Taylor and second by Ms. Fox. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes,
        5-0 all in favor.

        Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Harris and Ms. Barron-all yes.
V. School Communication and/or Discussion Items
   a. Subcommittee and Liaisons Update
        Facilities met Monday and an HVAC replacement at the high school was discussed and
           requests for bids for roofing replacement costs have begun. Ms. Fox recommended
           coordinating with Gilbane and Leftfield who the district already has a relationship with to
           look over the condition of the roofs since there has been a delay in companies responding. It
           was mentioned that January 11th is the deadline to submit requests to the Town.
        Ms. Gold inquired if a Warrant Article was needed for the next meeting to which Ms. Fox
           confirmed that there was not and that the Town would dictate next steps.
   b. New Business
      None
   c. Correspondence
      Ms. Fox reminded the committee that correspondence was received from MS. Billings regarding
      the accommodation already mentioned for the contest awards.

VI. Ms. Gold made a motion and vote to meet in Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General
    Laws chapter 30A, section 21 (a) for the following purpose: purpose (2) to discuss a strategy session
    in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel if an open meeting may have a detrimental
    effect on the bargaining position of the School Committee and the chair so declares.

    The motion was moved by Ms. Fox and seconded by Ms. Taylor. A rollcall vote was taken and the
    motion passes, 5-0.

    Ms. Gold, Mr. Harris, Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor and Ms. Barron-all yes.

    Executive Session
    Meeting in Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A, section 21(a) for
    purpose (2) to discuss a strategy session in preparation for negotiations with respect to nonunion
    personnel, specifically the Director of Student Services with no intent to return to open session.

Materials Included:
Draft Calendars Memo 22-23sy
Financial Report as of 11/30/2021
COVID Expenditures Update
Schedule of Bills
Facilities Critical Need Estimates
Coming of Age Correspondence

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved March 17, 2022
