                           Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                       Thursday December 15, 2022
                                                7:00pm
                                          High School Library

                                              Zoom Recording ID
        https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/j/95300141749?pwd=dlZNbXE2NE10eTFsSHhBSE1HZEJXdz09

Members Present: Sarah Fox, Sarah Gold and Alison Taylor
Remote Participants: Meagan Taylor

Also:                John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                     Lauren Kinder, Glover School Nurse
                     Amanda Murphy, Village School Principal
                     Greg Ceglarksi, Athletics Director
                     Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance

   I. Initial Business
   a. Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:02pm.
      She introduced orchestra teacher, Ms. Frias and her students for a musical performance.
   b. Encore Student Choral Performance
      The meeting opened with an orchestra performance from the extracurricular string ensemble made up of 6th
      through 8th graders. Three holiday songs were played.
   c. Commendations
      • Ms. Fox commended the students for their performance. She also commended the entire fine arts
          department for all of the recent performances that have taken place through the district.
      • Ms. Gold recognized the Superintendent for his thoughtful weekly updates sharing that they were a nice
          addition to keep the District informed. Ms. Gold also commended the work that has taken place to
          provide positive changes to the parent/teacher conferences.
      • Ms. Alison Taylor thanked the Brown PTO for their work with the holiday show.
   d. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
      • The Fashion Club recently held a winter gear drive for Life Bridges of the North Shore
      • The Jefferson Forum is holding a toy collection drive through the 13th for Pathways for Children
      • The Sophomores held their annual candy gram fundraiser and raised $300
      • The National Green School Society is holding a fundraiser through December 28th. Sustainable gifts
          can be purchased online at foodsupply.com
      • The winter concert for the high school music department will be on December 19th
      • The middle school concert is scheduled for the 13th
      • The Senior Class is working on their show which will be held on January 20th
      • Winter sports have begun, and a sports update was provided
   e. Public Comment
      None

   II. Consent Action and Agenda Items
       a. Appointment of School Nurse
          Ms. Lauren Kinder was brought forward to fill the nurse position at the Glover School.
       Ms. Kinder has 10 years of experience as a nurse with 5 years’ experience as a school nurse working
       for Lynn and most recently Malden Public Schools. She is experienced working with a Prek-12th grade
       student population. She is currently working in a K-8th grade building that houses about one thousand
       students.

       Discussions pertaining to the following took place:
       • Ms. Kinder’s reasons for moving on from her current position
       • The role of a school nurse in providing social/emotional support to students
       • What skills Ms. Kinder would bring to the nursing position at the Glover School
       Prior to a vote being taken, Superintendent Buckey recommended revisiting the vote once he has had
       time to connect with Malden regarding a transition start date. The committee consensus was to invite
       Ms. Kinder back in early January for a formal vote.

III. Superintendent Report
     a. Massachusetts Comprehensive Assessment System, MCAS Testing Update
        Village School MCAS Update-Principal Amanda Murphy
        Principal Murphy gave an overview of recent years test administration and provided a summary of
        grade level scores per content area. She shared that the need for teacher/student intervention would be
        reflected in budget planning. She noted that data would be used to inform WIN, “What I Need”
        instruction and to create vertical curriculum alignment with the Veterans Middle School.
     b. Addressing Hate in School Sports-Athletic Director, Greg Ceglarski
        Mr. Ceglarski opened his presentation sharing the expectations of student athletes and the code of
        conduct referenced in the handbook. He further stressed the importance of athletes representing the
        community at all times. Mr. Ceglarski explained the measures being taken to monitor the potential for
        incidences of hazing and harassment. Additionally, the consequences for students who witness and do
        not report incidences of hate were shared.

       Mr. Ceglarksi mentioned a recent conference he attended at TD Garden which focused on addressing
       hate. He noted the significant examples shared “from the field”. It was recommended to address
       incidences during weekly captain’s meetings as an opportunity for leadership training and culture
       building.

       Principal Bauer further noted that by establishing a positive culture, a better team and program would
       be built which would ultimately lead to success.

       It was recommended by a committee member for high school athletes to speak to younger athletes
       focusing on how to combat incidences of hate. Ms. Fox questioned training requirements by the
       Massachusetts Interscholastic Athletic Association and any professional development offerings for
       training team captains.

   c. District Updates
      Superintendent Buckey shared feedback from a recent budget focused Thoughtexchange. The data
      included feedback from more than 300 people with over twelve thousand ratings.
      It was noted that thoughts pertaining to staff compensation, curriculum and tuition-free kindergarten
      stood out amongst budget related topics. It was also shared that the discussion surrounding lengthening
      the school day was equally divided amongst community members who either strongly agreed or
      strongly disagree with the idea. Superintendent Buckey mentioned that surprisingly transportation was
      not prioritized from a budget point of view.
       Superintendent Buckey informed the community that COVID test kits will be sent home before holiday
       break for testing before returning. A Superintendent’s Coffee will be held on December 20th at the
       Village School.

       Additionally, he reminded the committee that school committee member inquiries should go through
       the Superintendent’s office when no longer a parent focused conversation.

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    a. Schedule of Bills
       Prior to asking for a motion to approve the schedule of bills, Ms. Fox shared her concerns regarding a
       communication consultant the district was contracting with that she was unaware of.

       A discussion about supporting communication needs with a less expensive price tag of a Director level
       position took place. After a discussion about how to bring consultants into the district going forward
       took place, Ms. Fox asked for a vote to approve the schedule of bills totaling $654,349.52. It was
       moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Alison Taylor. A roll call vote was taken.

       Ms. Gold-yes
       Ms. Alison Taylor-yes
       Ms. Meagan Taylor-yes
       Ms. Fox-abstain

       The motion passes, 3-0-1.

V. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
   a. School Committee Budget Priorities and Budget Calendar Discussion
      Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the presented budget priorities which was moved by Ms. Gold
      and seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 4-0.
      Ms. Gold, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Meagan Taylor, Ms. Fox-all yes.
   b. School Committee Member Vacancy Update
      Ms. Fox discussed scheduling a mutually agreeable date for interviewing candidates for the vacant
      school committee seat. It was decided that if January 23rd could work for all, Ms. Taylor would
      reschedule her conflict if applicable.
   c. Subcommittee and Liaisons Updates
      • Ms. Fox noted an email issue with the clerk’s office and encouraged subcommittee members to
          check their postings to ensure they were up on the Town’s website
      • Facilities will meet once more information pertaining to the warrant is shared
      • A Park and Recreation meeting was held to discuss memorandum of understanding adjustments
      • A joint Budget Subcommittee meeting is scheduled for Monday

VI. Closing Business
    a. New Business
       Ms. Taylor requested an update for the composting and recycling programs at the schools
       Ms. Gold inquired about having student Tyler Earp return to discuss his Eagle Scout Greenhouse
       Project.
       The draft calendar for the 2023-2024 school year will be shared at the first meeting in January
    b. Correspondence
       A contract for the communication consulting was included in the materials and discussed earlier in the
       meeting
       c. Adjournment
          Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 8:54pm

Materials Included:
Nurse Resume-Lauren Kinder
MCAS Results Presentation-Village School
Athletics Presentation-Combatting Incidences of Hate
Schedule of Bills
FY24 Budget Directives
Communications Consulting Contract-2022-2023sy

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved February 16, 2023
