                              Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                          Thursday November 17, 2022
                                                   7:00pm
                                             High School Library

                                                Zoom Recording ID
        https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/j/95088758116?pwd=OHFKcE9kNDdDOXZVYXR1TG1Yb1Ftdz09

Members Present:     Sarah Gold and Sarah Fox
Remote Participants: Alison Taylor and Meagan Taylor

Also:                John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                     Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                     Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance

  I. Initial Business
     a. Call to Order
         Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00pm.
     b. Commendations
         • Ms. Gold commended the boys’ cross-country team for winning their championship meet over the
              weekend. She also recognized the girls’ team for finishing in 9th place.
         • Superintendent Buckey commended the METCO Director, Caja Johnson for the walk idea she
              brough to the District.
     c. Student Representative-Yasen Colon (watch video)
          • The National Honor Society launched a tutoring program
          • The French Honor Society held National French week during the week of 11/3-11/9
          • The 2nd quarter recently began
          • ALICE, the active shooter preparedness training recently took place
          • The freshman class will be hosting a dodgeball tournament fundraiser on 11/22
          • The annual acapella concert, “Sing Free or Die Hard” will be on 11/22
          • A pep rally will take place on 11/23 in celebration of the Thanksgiving game
          • The Powderpuff game will be Saturday 11/19 in Swampscott
          • Senior brunch will be the day after on 11/20
          • The cross-country teams were congratulated
     d. Public Comment
          • None

  II. Consent Action and Agenda Items
      a. Approval of 10/20/2022 Minutes
         Ms. Fox made a motion to accept the minutes from 10/20/22. The motion was moved by Sarah Gold
         and seconded by Alison Taylor. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 4-0

           Ms. Gold-yes
           Ms. Alison Taylor-yes
           Ms. Meagan Taylor-yes
           Ms. Fox-yes
III. Superintendent Report
     a. Massachusetts Comprehensive Assessment System, MCAS Testing Update
        Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and Learning-Nan Murphy
        Dr. Buckey informed the committee that Nan would be presenting a trend analysis overview from 2018,
        2019, 2021 and 2022 while also using data from district analysis review tools, DART for comparisons
        amongst other districts in the state. He explained that the principals will provide grade level specific
        data at the December school committee meetings.

       Assistant Superintendent Murphy shared a presentation of the MCAS performance data noting which
       grade levels and content areas the data included. English Language Arts, Math, and Science,

       Technology, and Engineering. It was mentioned that full test administration occurred last for all grades
       in 2019 before being administered again in the Spring of 2022. No test administration happened in
       2020. During 2021, half test administration took place for students in grades 3rd through 8th and full test
       administration took place for 10th grade students only.

       She explained the two main components of the test analysis focused on a) proficiency with
       understanding state standards and b) student growth percentiles. She shared each content testing area
       and specified areas in which there was either an increase or decline in scores. It was mentioned that the
       DART data compared Marblehead with Bedford, Stoneham, and Newburyport.

       Assistant Superintendent Murphy commended the work of instructional leaders with coaching
       colleagues through data analysis.

       A conversation about the importance of data collection and the use of ARPA funds took place.

   b. Budget Forum Follow up-Thought Exchange Survey
      Superintendent Buckey shared that there was a good turnout at the budget forum. He also mentioned
      that he had hoped for more participation. The launch of a ThoughtExchange for feedback pertaining to
      budgeting concerns will be sent out before Thanksgiving.
   c. Superintendent’s Advisory Committee Updates-Wellness
      The Wellness Advisory Committee met last week and Ms. Gold stepped in in place of former
      representative, Ms. Barron. The DESE representative lives in Marblehead and provided good feedback
      for policy updates.

       Discussion about tailoring the wellness policy to include a social emotional aspect took place. Ms. Fox
       mentioned statistics from the joint conference she recently attended.

       Ms. Meagan Taylor inquired about refocusing efforts on the composting and recycling plan which
       began in 2019 during the former Interim Superintendent, Bill McAlduff’s administration.

   d. District Updates
      Superintendent Buckey recommended having the Athletic Director, Greg Ceglarksi attend an upcoming
      meeting to speak about the preventative measures the program is taking to address hazing and
      harassment.
IV. Finance Organizational Support
    a. Schedule of Bills
       Ms. Fox made a motion to accept the schedule of bills totaling $475, 015.00 The motion was moved by
       Sarah Gold and seconded by Alison Taylor. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 4-0

       Ms. Gold-yes
       Ms. Alison Taylor-yes
       Ms. Meagan Taylor-yes
       Ms. Fox-yes

V. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
   a. Requested Review and Discussion of Law and Policies
      i. Adherence to Massachusetts General Law, MGL-Part 1,Title VII, Chapter 41, Section 11
          Appointment to Fill Vacany in Town Office
          Ms. Gold noted that the policy pertaining to the vacant school committee member seat was
          addressed at the selectmen’s meeting the former evening so it did not require further discussion.
          Ms. Fox shared that a vacany has become available on the school committee due to a member
          resignation. She noted that the date of submission deadlines will be November 30th by 4pm.
          Interviews will be held jointly with the Board of Selectmen on Wednesday December 7th. The
          information will be available on the school website.

           Ms. Taylor requested that letters of interest be managed by Ms. Fox and the Superintendent’s
           Assistant Lisa to update the committee in a timely manner. Ms. Fox confirmed that copies will be
           sent to the committee the day after they are received.
       ii. Adherence to policy bbbe-unexpired term fulfillment
           Ms. Gold shared her concerns with not adhering to the one-week deadline for interviews referenced
           in the policy bbbe-unexpired term fulfillment.

           Ms. Fox shared how the process of filling of the seat was explained to her and questioned whether it
           could have been interpreted incorrectly.

           Ms. Gold further inquired if the committee should be making a motion to amend the policy if the
           committee was unable to follow it.

           Ms. Taylor stressed following the policies or to take a vote if policies are not being followed.

           A conversation about updating the policy in support of a more realistic timeline for interviewing
           took place.

       iii. Adherence to policy bda-school committee organizational meeting
            A conversation about using internal election processes for recommending a finalist candidate was
            mentioned.
       iv. Adherence to policy bdb-school committee officers
            Ms. Gold pointed out making amendments to policy bdb-school committee officers as she reminded
            the committee that the policy captures moving the Vice-Chair into a vacant Chairperson position
            but does not make reference to the secretary position moving into a Chairperson or Vice-Chair role
            as recommended at the last school committee meeting. Ms. Gold offered to review both policies
            more in depth to determine if amendments should be considered to which no further discussion was
            had.

           Ms. Fox mentioned revisiting having MASC manage the District’s policies.
       b. Request to the Selectboard Review and Discussion
          i. Change the Marblehead School Committee Status to Special Employees
             Ms. Gold discussed her interest in requesting that committee members be termed “Special
             Employees” of the Town. She noted that certain aspects of the role could create ethical situations
             which could be avoided going forward. After she explained the reasoning for the request, she asked
             that the further discussion be put on hold until she could obtain more information as she
             understands the request involved more than originally anticipated.
       c. Subcommittee and Liaisons Updates
           • Ms. Gold met with the lead nurse and Superintendent’s Assistant for policy related follow up
             discussion that had already began prior to the recent member resignation.
           • Ms. Fox recommended awaiting the appointment of a new member before addressing any other
              non-pressing policy related concerns.
            • SEPAC will meet on November 30th at 7pm
            • Safety met and discussed the ALICE drills and the instillation of cameras at the former Coffin
               School due to loitering
            • Ms. Fox shared that the budget subcommittee will be meeting after holiday along with the
               facilities subcommittee
            • The District has been entered into the MSBA program for the roof accelerated repair program at
               Veterans School. Ms. Gold requested that the facilities subcommittee take a look at all school
               owned properties in preparation for another budget season.
            • Ms. Fox noted correspondence from the library regarding the Eveleth facility they are utilizing in
               which roof concerns were mentioned. It was mentioned that the library refer back to the
               Memorandum of Understanding in regard to their use of the Eveleth building.

          Ms. Taylor inquired about a budget calendar to which Ms. Fox explained they were awaiting
          information form the Town. Ms. Fox confirmed that the leadership team members would present their
          budgets in January.
       d. School Committee Budget Priorities
          It was explained that the leadership team has their budget packets and they will be focusing on the costs
          required to educate students in Marblehead.

   VI. Closing Business
       a. New Business
          Ms. Alison Taylor reminded the committee that there will be a St. Lambert hockey tournament this
          weekend in Lynn.
       b. Correspondence
          Correspondence from the Marblehead Library regarding concerns pertaining to the Eveleth facility
          concerns
       c. Adjournment
          Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 8:10pm.

Materials Included:
District Data Overview-MCAS Presentation
Schedule of bills
Review of MGL and Policies:
MGL Part 1, Title VII, Chapter 41, Section 11
bbbe-unexpired term fulfillment
bda-school committee organizational meeting
bdb-school committee officers
Correspondence-The Marblehead Library
Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved January 5, 2023
