                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                               Monday March 28, 2022
https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82111076886?pwd=ektXcFc4SGp3R1ZHRmpGY080SXhIQT09


Members Present:     Sarah Gold, Emily Barron and Sarah Fox
                     Members Meagan Taylor and David Harris joined the meeting
                     late
Remote Participants: All members participated remotely

Also:                   John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                        Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent of Finance and
                        Operations


I.      Call to Order
        Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 5:02pm.

II.     Schools Budget
        The committee met to discuss the final budget that would be presented to the Town
        later that evening.
        Ms. Cresta provided a general overview of the budget tracking changes that have
        occurred since the committee’s last meeting. The following adjustments were
        shared:

               The number for the payroll contractual obligations
               The request for Smartboards has been moved into a Capital Debt
                Exclusion Article
               The agreed upon dollar amount for the benefit costs of adding up to
                30 full time equivalent workers
               The inclusion of security camera systems into the operating budget

        Ms. Cresta shared that the total FY23 ask comes to $46,606,959, which is $3.4
        million above the current amount the Town supports.

        It was explained that the total operating budget would consist of the FY22 roll
        forward budget in the amount of $41.8million plus the $1.2million included for
        contractual obligations and to include another $848K in out of district tuition costs
        the Town agreed to fund.

        Mr. Harris joined the meeting late at 5:13pm.

        A series of questions were asked pertaining to the leasing of technology equipment,
        the moving of requests to different Articles and budgeting for additional benefits in
        support of adding new staff.

        A conversation about an increase to the energy and utility reserve funds took place.
        A conversation about budgeting to better prepare for out of district transportation
        costs also took place. Ms. Cresta shared the options being looked into that would
        help lower transportation costs.

        Ms. Fox made a motion to allow for public comment, which was seconded by Ms.
        Taylor.
       A call vote was taken and the motion passes, 4-0 as committee member Harris was
       disconnected from the virtual call.

       Ms. Gold, Ms. Baron, Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor-all yes

       Public Comment
       Ms. Catherine Martin of W. Shore Drive spoke in favor of sending as much budget
       information as possible to community members.

III.   Adjournment
       The meeting adjourned at 5:43pm.


Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved June 23, 2022
