                  Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                              Thursday November 10, 2022
                                       7:00pm

                                  https://marbleheadschools-
      org.zoom.us/j/94306788597?pwd=RDdUdFFMSkZ0Q3IwTUNQdCtXNkNNdz09

      Members Present:        Sarah Fox, Sarah Gold, Thomas Mathers, Alison Taylor and
                              Meagan Taylor


      Also Present :         John J. Buckey, Superintendent

 I.   Call to order
      Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:05pm.
      a. School committee member vacancy update
          Ms. Fox provided an update on the vacant school committee member seat sharing that
         t he selectmen will move forward with filling the seat. She will provide an update to the
         committee once she speaks with the Town.

         Ms. Meagan Taylor spoke in favor of following the school policies or mentioned voting
         not to follow the policies.

         After a discussion about the vacant committee seat, the meeting was opened to the public
         to begin the public forum focused on finance and budgeting.

II.   Finance Budget and Discussion
      ● Xazzie Kindle spoke about the salary for kitchen workers being below minimum wage.
          She spoke in favor of raising salaries above minimum wage to attract and retain workers.
      ● Erin Noonan of Beverly Av. spoke in favor of budgeting for permanent substitute
          positions to support coverage for meetings and illnesses. She also spoke in favor of
          supporting all staffing requests.
      ● James Full of Cheever Av. spoke about the importance of bringing a divided school
          committee together.
      ● Catherine Martin of W. Shore Dr. thanked the committee for hosting a forum. She
          stressed the importance of focusing the budget planning on curriculum.
      ● Dan Albert shared his concern about bussing capacity for sports and spoke in favor of
          increasing transportation for after school activities.
      ● Jess Benedetto of Bradlee Rd. also spoke about bussing concerns relating to capacity
          and reliability.
      ● Erin Noonan inquired about labor shortages and looking more closely at salaries to
          attract and retain qualified workers.
      ● Becky Suciu spoke about the drop off and pick start and stop times and the
          potential for increasing the school day.
      ● Catherine Martin of W. Shore Dr. spoke of benchmarks for the Strategic Plan to assist
          with raising salaries over many years for example.
      ● Xazzie Kindle spoke in favor of revisiting the idea of a special education audit
          mentioned during an earlier years budget planning process that never occurred.
●      James Full suggested utilizing a vacant building to focus on special education student
       needs to attract students from other towns to help offset budgeting costs.
●      Jenn Schaeffner inquired about obtaining the end of year budget and when it would be
       available. Ms. Cresta explained the school department has closed their books but is
       awaiting the year end close from the Town to finalize the process.
●      Catherine Martin suggested holding a forum that focuses on how the Town and schools
       budgeting process and timelines coincide. Ms. Cresta explained that the Town has more
       reports to submit but the timeline remains similar.
●      James Full inquired about textbook updates.
●      Joelle Lydon of Cedar St. thanked the committee for hosting the forum. She
       inquired about line- i t e m budgets for textbooks for example that never fund
       textbooks.
●      Catherine Martin commended the facilities department for their work on
       maintaining the buildings better than previous years.
●      James Full inquired about technology needs and budget planning for updated devices.
●      Joelle Lydon inquired about planning for appropriate budgeting for funding out of
       district tuition costs for special education students.
●      Dan Albert mentioned the utilities costs and how to shrink the expenses
       associated with utilities associated costs such as utilizing solar.
●      Becky Suciu spoke about partnering with the Town for an energy audit.

       Ms. Fox noted that committee members Gold and Meagan Taylor signed off around 8pm.

●      James Full thanked the committee for hosting the forum and leading the District
       forward.

       Ms. Fox encouraged community members to reach out to the committee with any and all
       questions they have and thanked everyone for their attendance.

III.      Adjournment
          Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 8:41pm

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved April 6, 2023
