                       Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                               Thursday March 17, 2022 at 7:00pm
                                 Marblehead High School-Library

Members Present:                Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Emily Barron, David Harris
Remote Participants:            Sarah Fox

Also:                   John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                        Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance and Operation
                        Dan Bauer, High School Principal Bauer

I. Initial Business
   a. Call to Order
       Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:01 pm
   b. Commendations
        Ms. Gold commended student Samuel Braginsky and teachers Alisha Dolan and Jenn Billings
            for organizing a “Giveback” donation drive for Ukraine. She thanked the community for the
            generosity and support.
        Ms. Gold also commended students who participated in raising funds to donate to the Red
            Cross
   c. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
        Jeff Letterman and Grace Maclean were congratulated for achieving their Valedictorian and
            Salutatorian status
        There was a Chorus workshop held at UMass Lowell
        On March 2nd four students participated in the All-State chorus event
        On March 3rd there was an 8th grade curriculum night
        On March 7th and 8th the National Honors Society held fundraisers
        The semi-formal dance was held on March 11th at Endicott College
        The state DECA competition was held on March 12th and 6 students moved on to
            Internationals
        Last week grades 9-11 discussed the schedule implementing the new magic block and career
            information for seniors was shared
        On March 16th grades 9-11 had meetings about course selections
        The National Green School Society and best buddies will participate in a badminton
            tournament Saturday
        MCAS for grade 10 will begin the following week with delayed starts for 9,11 and 12
        The Freshman class thanked the DeWitt family of Stowaway Sweets for their fundraising
            support
        The Junior Class is seeking donations and sponsorships for class auctions
   d. Public Comment
        Ali Taylor of Horn St recognized teachers for the additional assistance they have provided for
            students during the pandemic which helped students to perform above grade level. She
            commended teacher, Mrs. O’Flynn for her work on advanced math strategies in break out
            groups. She spoke in favor of continuing to provide the same level of support going forward.
          Cindy Tower-Loewen shared that the Racial Justice Team would be presenting at Brown
           School on Wednesday March 23rd at 10am. She also noted the impact on METCO students
           without a director.
          Monique Lloyd, parent of a high school METCO student and head of the METCO PCO
           commented on the difficulty with retaining a qualified METCO Director.
          Kim Day of Liberty Rd. thanked the committee for the virtual accessibility of meetings for
           supporting public participation.

II. Consent Action and Agenda Items
    a. Minutes-11/18/2021, 12/16/2021,1/6/2022, 1/20/2022
       Ms. Gold made a motion to accept the minutes from .The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and
       seconded by Ms. Barron and a roll call vote was taken with the motion passing 5-0.

      Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Harris, Ms. Fox and Ms. Barron-all yes
   b. Statements of Interest Submission to the Massachusetts School Building Authority (MSBA)
      Ms. Cresta shared that the school district was seeking funding from the Massachusetts School
      Building Authority (MSBA) for roof repairs at both the Veterans and High School buildings.
      She explained that a statement of interest needed to be submitted by Friday March 25th. It was
      further explained that the process to be approved could take up to a full year ant that submitting a
      Statement of Interest does not guarantee funding.

            Ms. Gold made a motion to authorize the Superintendent to submit to the
            Massachusetts School Building Authority the Statement of Interest Form dated March
            16, 2022 for the Marblehead High School and Veteran’s Middle School located at 2
            Humphrey Street, Marblehead, MA and 217 Pleasant Street, Marblehead, MA.
            respectively which describes and explains the following deficiencies and the priority
            category for which an application may be submitted to the Massachusetts School
            Building Authority in the future.

            Description of priority: Priority category # 5 - Replacement, renovation or
            modernization of school facility systems, such as roofs, windows, boilers, heating and
            ventilation systems, to increase energy conservation and decrease energy related
            costs in a school facility.

            Description of deficiency: The High School roof dates back to the initial construction
            which occurred in 2001. The entire roof has multiple leaks which have penetrated the
            building. The district has continually patched this roof to extend its useful life. It is a
            common occurrence for water to drip in through the ceiling during heave rain storms.
            The Veteran’s Middle School was most recently renovated in 2004 and previous to
            that in 1986. During the 2004 renovation all portions of the roof were replaced with
            the exception of the D Wing area and the Auditorium area. These two areas are now
            failing and are in dire
            need of replacement;

            and hereby further specifically acknowledges that by submitting this Statement of
            Interest Form, the Massachusetts School Building Authority in no way guarantees the
            acceptance or the approval of an application, the awarding of a grant or any other
            funding commitment from the Massachusetts School Building Authority, or commits
            the Town to filing an application for funding with the Massachusetts School Building
            Authority.

       The motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Fox

       It was mentioned that all assessments of the roofs would be included with submittal.

       A roll call vote was taken with the motion passing 5-0.

       Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Harris, Ms. Fox and Ms. Barron-all yes

III. Superintendent Report
     a. High School Schedule Updates-Principal, Dan Bauer
         An Info session was scheduled last week with juniors to go over the new schedules
         The PCO presented Monday
         A Superintendent’s Coffee was held on Tuesday
         On Wednesday grades 9-11 discussed the scheduling process for the following year

          Principal Bauer shared a slideshow presentation explaining the process for the scheduling
          changes that would be implemented the following school year. He shared the names of the
          members that participated on the committee and noted that the high school schedule was
          being adjusted to meet the state required 990 hour time on learning. It was mentioned that
          students were surveyed prior to decisions being made. Principal Bauer informed the
          committee that a new MAGIC block would take place of study halls to provide an
          opportunity for students to focus on the college application process, make up a test or obtain
          extra help from a teacher who may also have the same block available. Sample schedules
          were shared along with the positives and challenges of the adjusted schedule.
   b. District Updates
      Superintendent Buckey provided updates on the Glover Principal Search, the Brown Principal
      Search timeline and instructional walkthroughs. He provided an update on the last Safety meeting
      and mentioned that the next Wellness meeting would be scheduled for March 24th. It was
      mentioned that the next Superintendent’s Coffee is scheduled for the morning of March 24th at the
      high school with plans for Ms. Gina Hart to share the results of the Youth Behavior at Risk
      Survey YRBS.

       It was shared that Ms. Hope Doran currently with Georgetown has been offered the principal
       position at the Glover School and has accepted. A tentative timeline of the Brown Principal
       Search was shared with the listed search committee members noted. Superintendent Buckey
       mentioned that instructional walkthroughs have been beneficial especially to experience a mask
       optional environment.

IV. Finance and Organizational Support
    a. FY23 Budget Update
       Superintendent Buckey explained that budget conversations are ongoing and shared that the
       Town would like a better understanding of how the school reached the budget they are asking for.
       Ms. Cresta mentioned that an additional $65k for stipends would need to be included in the
       contractual obligations.

       A conversation about out of district tuition funds and the possibility of funding the costs from
       both the operating and reserve funds took place.

       Committee members inquired why no budget number has been provided from the Town
       considering the school budget books have been together since December and a discussion
       regarding concerns with the Town not being able to support an override, should the committee go
       forward with that ask, took place.

       Ms. Fox made a motion to affirm the commitment to funding the priority list in support of an
       override, which was seconded by Ms. Barron.

       After a conversation about supporting the leadership budget requests took place, committee
       members agreed that there could be opportunities to fund requests in different ways once the
       Town confirmed the number they are able to support.

       A roll call vote was taken with the motion passing 5-0.

       Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Harris, Ms. Fox and Ms. Barron-all yes

       Mr. Harris spoke about the inequities associated with user fees and spoke in favor of the user fees
       being incorporated into the operating budget.

       Ms. Fox spoke in favor of adding the following to the budget ask:
       a) a high school curriculum coach
       b) staff to support a co-taught model
       c) a K-6th grade social studies curriculum
       d) social emotional learning curriculum

      Ms. Gold shared her concerns regarding the feedback they have received from staff regarding lots
      of new initiatives and the capability of administrators and staff being able to take on more than
      the many initiatives they have already begun implementing. Ms. Barron spoke in favor of a split
      curriculum director/teacher and Mr. Harris spoke in favor of leaving those decisions to the
      administrative team to determine.
   b. Schedules
      Ms. Gold made a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $461,629.53. The motion was
      moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Mr. Harris. A roll call vote was taken with the motion
      passing 5-0.

       Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Harris, Ms. Fox and Ms. Barron-all yes

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion Items
   a. Coffin School Use and Marblehead Library MOU
      It was explained that Town departments voiced their concerns about the viability of the Coffin
      School for use by the library as an interim space during their renovations. Due to maintenance
       concerns pertaining to the boiler, electrical HVAC capacity and accessibility concerns, the
       Eveleth School would be a more suitable option for the library.

       Ms. Gold asked for a motion to rescind the MOU for the library to use the Coffin School and
       approve the library MOU for the library to use the Eveleth School. The motion was moved by
       Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Baron.

       A roll call vote was taken with the motion passing 5-0.

      Ms. Gold, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Harris, Ms. Fox and Ms. Barron-all yes
   b. Hiring Search Committee Discussion
      Ms. Gold shared that the following hiring search committees could add a school committee
      representative:
       The Brown Principal Search
       The High School Assistant Principal Search
       The METCO Director
       The Food Services Director

       It was noted that no representative would be appointed to the Assistant Principal Search, as it was
       not the jurisdiction of the committee.

       After Ms. Fox voiced her interest in serving as the representative for the Brown Principal Search,
       a discussion regarding conflicts of interest took place as it was mentioned that there would be
       difficulty going into a role in which you are a parent of a student in the building of the position
       you are interviewing for.

       Ms. Fox disagreed and made a motion to appoint herself as representative for the search at the
       Brown School to which it was not seconded. Ms. Taylor recommended that the Ms. Gold be
       appointed as the representative to the Brown Search.

      After further discussion, Ms. Taylor made a motion to appoint Ms. Gold to the Brown Principal
      Search, Ms. Fox to the Food Services Director Searche and to appoint either herself or Ms.
      Barron to the METCO Director Search. Ms. Barron confirmed that Ms. Taylor could serve as the
      representative for the METCO Director search. As Ms. Taylor noted that the choice to appoint
      could defer to the chairs of the committee, she mentioned that no vote would be required unless
      members were against the recommended appointments.
   c. Subcommittee and Liaisons Updates
       Ms. Gold inquired about facilities updates and asked Ms. Fox to look further into school
          owned properties for future discussion
       A Building Committee meeting will be held next Thursday to address invoices and final work
          to be completed

VI. Closing Business
    a. New Business
       The budget hearing will be in two weeks on the 31st and held via zoom only
       Ms. Barron requested that a METCO Director position and a parent liaison discussion be put on a
       future agenda
   b. Correspondence
   c. Adjournment
      Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 9:16pm.
Materials Included:
Memorandum to the MSB for Roof Funding
High School Schedule Presentation
Memorandum-Superintendent Updates
Principal Search Timeline
Memorandum-Glover School Principal Appointment
Schedule of Bills Memo
MOU-Library and Eveleth School

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved May 19, 2022
