                      Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                     Thursday May 5, 2022
                    Metropolitan Council for Educational Opportunity METCO
                               11 Roxbury St. Roxbury, MA 02119

      Members Present:                Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor, Emily Barron
      Remote Participants:            Sarah Fox and David Harris

      Also:                           John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                                      Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                                      Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent of Business and
                                      Operations
                                      Dan Bauer, High School Principal (remote)
                                      Julie Ferreira, Veterans Assistant Principal

      Link:https://us06web.zoom.us/j/88958514093?pwd=UHZ0ZVhKNlhuOHV2ZUdnS2NHZ3
                                             FzQT09

I.    Initial Business
      a. Call to Order
      Ms. Gold called the meeting to order at 7:02pm and recognized the largest audience the committee
      has had in some time.
      b. Commendations
            Ms. Taylor thanked the community for coming to Town Meeting for two nights in a row.
            Dr. Buckey thanked Milly and the METCO staff for the warm welcome to METCO Inc.
      c. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
            Ella Kramer was recognized for being athlete of year
            The 6 finalist for the Hunts photo school contest were recognized
            On April 13th Team harmony presented to the 7th and 8th graders on all forms of hate
            Quarter 4 will begin on April 11th
            College Admissions Officers visited on April13th with Financial Aid Officers to follow on
               the 26th
            An Acapella concert was held on April 29th
            Advanced Placement testing is taking place from May 2nd-May 14th
            The Junior auction is from May 4th to May 8th
            The Performing Arts Department is holding a fundraiser at Dolphin Yacht Club that evening
            Team Harmony and the Racial Justice Team will host a diversity presentation at Abbot Hall
               on Monday May 17th
            The annual Cultural Fest will be at the high school on May 20th
            The annual Juneteenth flag raising will take place on May 8th at Abbot Hall
            All class fundraisers were mentioned and prom dates were shared
            A sports update was provided
      d. Public Comment
            Ms. Nicole Cohen commented on the former weeks meeting and her disappointment
               regarding the budget discussion, the discussion about a Superintendent survey and the public
               comment referencing accommodations for a child of a committee member.
            Ms. Cindy Lowen of Trinity Rd and member of the Racial Justice Team spoke in favor of
               continuing to promote the METCO program and administration behind the program.
           
II.   Superintendent Report
      a. Senior Updates-High School Principal, Dan Bauer
           This agenda item was taken out of order and discussed after the METCO and DEI updates.
          Principal Dan Bauer provided updates for upcoming senior events including senior project,
          senior week, proms, scholarship night, senior trips and graduation.
       b. METCO Updates-METCO Lead Coordinator, Julia Ferreira
          METCO Lead Coordinator, Ms. Ferreira provided updates for the METCO program including an
          update on filling the METCO Director position. She also shard that weekly METCO
          representative meetings have been taking place and that meet and greets were being scheduled
          for families who were new to Marblehead. Ms. Ferreira mentioned that senior students would be
          gifted graduation gifts and that summer success gift bags will be distributed. It was also
          mentioned that DESE would be providing updates and guidance regarding allocations for
          METCO funding.
       c. District Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DEI Updates-DEI Members
          Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy shared that the DEI committee is continuing to focus
          work on the strategic objectives outlined in the Planning for Success work. It was mentioned that
          professional development across the district from pre-kindergarten to grade 12 has been aligned
          across the district to “embed diversity, equity and inclusion in the mission, vision, core values
          and training of the leadership team, schools and the district.” She shared the titles of the focused
          professional development held regularly on Wednesdays. She commended the DEI team for the
          collaboration with planning and implementing the PD days.
       d. District Updates-Superintendent, Dr. John J. Buckey
          Superintendent Buckey shared that after a comprehensive search, Ms. Mary Maxfield has been
          named as the new Brown School Principal joining Marblehead from Barrington NH. Ms.
          Maxfield’s work history was shared and it was mentioned that during the interview process, Ms.
          Maxfield explained that she “believes strongly in the art of collaboration and that it makes good
          things happen. Respecting all stakeholders and inviting stakeholders to the table is critical to the
          successful implementation of any initiative.” It was mentioned that a Coffee at the Brown School
          will be held before the end of Year.

III.   School Committee and/or Discussion Items
       a. The Metropolitan Council for Educational Opportunity METCO-Parent Representative Process
          Ms. Gold mentioned that during the working dinner parents discussed what they were looking
          for in a METCO parent representative. The next steps will be for Ms. Taylor and METCO
          parent, Ms. Lloyd to discuss how they could implement an effective search. A conversation took
          place about inviting another district who already has a parent representative to the summer
          retreat.
       b. Subcommittee and Liaisons Updates
          Ms. Taylor shared that the request to increase the school’s operating budget was passed at Town
          meeting and will be moving onto the ballot in June

IV.    Closing Business
       a. New Business
          Ms. Gold mentioned dates for informational budget forums and requested the availability for
          remote participation. After a brief discussion about scheduling options for forums, the committee
          decided to hold forums on the following dates:

           Tuesday May 24th in the morning
           Wednesday June 8th at 7pm
           Monday June 13th at 7pm

          Superintendent Buckey did mention that it was of importance to note that the forums were not
          intended to add to or subtract from requests and that they would be informational and
          educational for the community.
       b. Correspondence
          Ms. Gold mentioned receiving information form the Town Moderator regarding appointing a
          representative to the Essex Technical School Board of Trustees.
           Ms. Gold also mentioned receiving information about naming a space in the Glover School for
           recently deceased teacher, Brooke Yanow that would come back to the committee for final
           consideration and approval.

       c. Adjournment
          Ms. Gold adjourned the meeting at 7:49pm.

Materials Included:
Memo-Class of 2022 Updates
Memo-METCO District Updates
Memo-DEI District Updates
Correspondence-Essex Technical School

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved June 2, 2022
