                       Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                     Thursday October 6, 2022
                                             7:00pm

                          Zoom Recording ID https://marbleheadschools-
          org.zoom.us/j/97681201240?pwd=RzhETnJseU4zUmhDZjViMnN4dmwyQT09
Members Present:     Sarah Gold, Sarah Fox, Alison Taylor
Members Absent:      Emily Barron
Remote Participants: Meagan Taylor

Also:                  John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                       Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                       Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance
                       Dan Bauer, High School Principal
                       Amanda Murphy, Village School Principal
                       Mary Maxfield, Brown School Principal
                       Hope Doran, Glover School Principal
                       Stephen Kwiatek, Director of Technology
                       Don Morgan, Marblehead Conservancy


I.      Initial Business and Public Involvement
        1. Call to Order
            Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00pm. She noted that Ms. Meagan Taylor would be
            Participating from home and Ms. Barron would not be in attendance.
        2. Commendations
            Massachusetts Association of School Superintendents –M.A.S.S Excellence Award
            Superintendent Buckey presented Student Representative Yasen Colon with the
            Massachusetts Association of School Superintendents excellence award. A list of his
            commendable accomplishments was recognized.
        3. Student Representative – Yasen Colon
             • Picture Day was 9/28
             • School Advisory Councils SACs were voted 10/1
             • Clubs are starting again
             • The Math Team won their first meet
             • The Boosters held a Scholarship Drive on 10/2
             • The Junior Class opened a class clothing shop
             • The Freshman class elections will be on 10/7
             • Day Zero, the day of service will take place next week
             • A sports update was provided
        4. Public Comment
             • Becky Scuiu of Lafayette St. inquired about the elementary schedules and the time on
                 learning requirements. She furthered shared concerns about the time students are
                 standing in line in the cafeteria and the change in specials schedules.

II.     Consent Agenda and Action Items
        1. Approval of Minutes:
           9/7/2022 and 9/22/2022
    Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve minutes from 9/7/2022, which was moved by Ms.
    Gold and seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes,
    4-0.

    Ms. Gold-yes
    Ms. Alison Taylor-yes
    Ms. Meagan Taylor-yes
    Ms. Fox-yes

    Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the minutes from 9/22/2022. The motion was moved
    by Ms. Alison Taylor and seconded by Ms. Meagan Taylor. A roll call vote was taken and the
    motion passes, 3-1-0.

   Ms. Gold-abstained
   Ms. Alison Taylor-yes
   Ms. Meagan Taylor-yes
   Ms. Fox-yes
2. Appointment of School Nurse.
   After an introduction by Principal Bauer, Ms. Fox asked for a motion to appoint Vanessa
   Coonan as an additional nurse at the high school. The motion was moved by Ms. Meagan
   Taylor and seconded by Ms. Gold. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes 4-0.

   Ms. Gold-yes
   Ms. Alison Taylor-yes
   Ms. Meagan Taylor-yes
   Ms. Fox-yes
3. Review of School Improvement Plans-Brown, Glover and Village Schools
   Principal Murphy and along with elementary principals, Doran and Maxfield presented the
   improvement plans for the Village, Brown and Glover Schools. The main
   focus areas consisted of 1) curriculum 2) strengthening professional culture and 3) diversity,
   equity and inclusion. Improvement strategies for each of the planning for success initiative
   areas were outlined and shared during a presentation.

    Ms. Fox made a motion to approve the school improvement plans as presented by principals.
    The motion was moved and seconded. During the roll call vote around 43 minutes into the
    meeting, Ms. Meagan Taylor had left the meeting and her vote was not included. A roll call
    vote was taken and the motion passes, 3-0

    Ms. Gold-yes
    Ms. Alison Taylor-yes
    Ms. Fox-yes

   Ms. Fox reminded the principals that facilities related request could be part of the
   improvement plans if relevant.
4. Marblehead Conservancy Renewal
   Mr. Don Morgan of Wyman Rd. and representative for the Marblehead Conservancy spoke to
   the committee regarding the conservation properties in Town the conservancy currently
   maintained. He noted that the conservancy was funded by memberships and the number of
   projects the conservancy has been involved with over the years was mentioned.
   It was explained that he was coming before the committee to confirm the schools intentions
   of continuing the relationship with the conservancy as the organization was currently
          undergoing reauthorization by the Conservation Commission. A map of properties
          maintained was shared which included Seaside Park and the Village school.

          Ms. Fox asked for a Motion to approve continuance of the current relationship with the
          Marblehead Conservancy until further notice which was moved by Ms. Meagan Taylor who
          had rejoined the meeting and seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor. A roll call vote was taken and
          the motion passes 4-0.


          Ms. Gold-yes
          Ms. Alison Taylor-yes
          Ms. Meagan Taylor-yes
          Ms. Fox-yes

III.   Superintendent Report
       1. Planning for Success Update-Director of Technology, Stephen Kwiatek
          The technology Director provided updates pertaining to the PfS Planning for Success
          Technology Initiative. He shared the following:
           • Students in k-6th grades now have 1-1 devices
           • Smart panels have been installed in buildings
           • A focused technology curriculum is being looked into
           • New cameras have been installed in buildings and areas of buildings that required them.
           • A system called the Raptor System has been implemented to help track visitors in the
               building
           • Security awareness training is being launched
           A reminder about capturing additional technology personnel in the budget was mentioned to
           account for the need that could be associated with a state framework curriculum

       2. Superintendent 2022-2023sy Goals
          Dr. Buckey noted that his goals were shared the previous week to allow time to meet with
          committee members. It was mentioned that the department rubric and feedback from prior
          evaluations was used to determine goals and that key actions and benchmarks were added to
          determine outputs.

          A discussion about the measurability of goals and instructional round walkthrough took
          place. Ms. Gold reminded the committee of the opportunity to accompany the
          Superintendents through an instructional round walkthrough. Ms. Fox voiced her concern
          regarding the difficulty in measuring operational goals. She further recommended tabling the
          vote for next the next meeting when all members could be present to vote.

       3. District Updates
          Principal Fox provided an update on the sidewalk pouring that would take place the following
          week, which would affect the Village and Veteran families and walking routes for students.

IV.    Finance Organizational Support
       1. Schedule of Bills
          Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $517,631.20. The motion
          was moved by Alison Taylor and seconded by Sarah Gold. The motion passed 3-0.Ms.
          Meagan Taylor left the meeting early.
V.     School Committee Communications and/or Discussion Items
        1. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
           Ms. Gold shared information on a curriculum, instructional and student life subcommittee
           noting that the information was being shared in follow up to the discussion held at the
           summer retreat. It was explained that the committee was suggested in an effort to help the
           committee better understand and support the inner operational workings of the school day
           while providing an opportunity to better align teaching and learning initiatives with the
           district’s Plan for Success, which could inform budget planning.

           Assistant Superintendent Murphy mentioned developing consistent systems to support
           student growth and equitable services for all.

           A discussion about the benefits of implementing the committee, the makeup of the committee
           and the governance of the committee took place.

           Ms. Fox spoke in favor of the committee assisting with community communication updates.

           •   The Policy subcommittee that was scheduled for the following day will be canceled for
               the following morning.
           •    It was explained that the school committee would meet to discuss budget directives for
               FY24. The meeting could be posted as a subcommittee or as a workshop. Ms. Fox
               suggested scheduling the workshop the following week prior to the next meeting.

               Ms. Gold requested that the budget subcommittee be mindful of relaying information to
               the full committee prior to learning about information from written articles.

               A conversation that occurred at the last budget subcommittee regarding regular updates
               on under or overspending was shared with the committee.

               Ms. Fox also mentioned budgeting for a software program that would work for the
               schools and the Towns. She also mentioned looking into changing the process so the
               school committee could vote the budget prior to the finance committee.
        2. Forum Date(s) and Topic(s) Discussion
           A discussion about scheduling a topic-focused forum took place and it was suggested that a
           forum be held on Tuesday the 25th at 7pm.

VI.    Closing Business
       1. New Business
          None
       2. Correspondence
          A petition pertaining to gym clothing was included in the committee drive and packet posted
          to the website. It was noted that Principal Fox had already addressed the concerns in a
          response to parents earlier that day.
       3. Adjournment
          Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 8:57pm

Materials Included:
School Nurse Resume
School Improvement Plans-Brown, Glover, Village
Marblehead Conservancy Presentation
Planning for Success Technology Update
Superintendent Goals
Sidewalk Pouring Update Presentation
Schedule of Bills
Memo-Proposed curriculum, instruction, and student life subcommittee
Petition re: gym clothing

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved October 20, 2022
