Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Wednesday October 11, 2023

4:18PM
Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffer , Alison Taylor. Meagan Taylor
Also Present: Michelle Cresta-Acting Superintendent

1. Initial Business

a. Call to Order

Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 4:18PM

b. Commendations
» None
c. Public Comment

» Complaint raised by (go back for name) regarding the audio during the School Committee
Meetings when they are on Zoom

IL. Interim Superintendent Search Discussion —_ (vote)
" The discussion on the Interim Superintendent Search is opened by Sarah Fox
«" Meagan Taylor shared her thoughts on the Interim Superintendent Candidates
® Alison Taylor shared her thoughts on the Interim Superintendent Candidates
» Brian Ota shared his thoughts on the Interim Superintendent Candidates

" Jennifer Shaeffner shared her thoughts on the Interim Superintendent Candidates

Sarah Fox shared her thoughts on the Interim Superintendent Candidates

Motion to keep Michelle Cresta in the role as Acting Superintendent made by Meagan Taylor
The motion is Seconded by Jennifer Shaeffner

Discussion opened by Sarah Fox

The motion was withdrawn by Meagan Taylor

Motion made by Jennifer Shaeffner to offer the position of Interim Superintendent of Marblehead Public
Schools to Dr. Theresa McGuinnes subject to successful contract negotiations with the chair

The motion was seconded by Brian Ota


--- page break ---

Ms. Meagan Taylor-No
Ms. Alison Taylor, Mr. Ota, Ms. Shaeffner, Ms. Sarah Fox-All Yes
A roll vote was taken and the motion passes 4-1

Sarah Fox asks for a motion of support for Dr. Theresa McGuinnes in the role of Interim Superintendent
through June 30, 2024

Moved by Jennifer Shaeffner, Seconded by Brian Ota
Ms. Meagan Taylor, Ms. Alison Taylor, Mr. Ota, Ms. Shaeffner, and Ms. Fox-All Yes
A roll vote was taken and the motion passes 5-0
V, Closing Business
a. New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests
« None
Meeting is adjourned at 5:19PM by School Committee Chair Ms. Fox
Respectfully Submitted,

Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

