                                  Record of the Marblehead School Committee
                                              Thursday July 6, 2023
                                        Lucretia and Joseph Brown School
                                         Main Office Conference Room
                                                      5:00pm
https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/j/92683125154?pwd=YlhVQzdGMjFWV l FuZT12ZEVOVHJDdz09

               Members Present:       Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner and Alison Taylor
               Virtually Attended     Meagan Taylor

               Also:                  Superintendent John J. Buckey
                                      Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations, Michelle Cresta

I.      Initial Business
        a. Call to Order
            Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 5:04pm.
            Ms. Fox spoke about the public comment that took place during the previous meeting. She
            mentioned how a parent reached out to share concerns related to the importance of keeping the
            names of families and students who file complaints confidential so there would be no fear of
            retaliation.
        b. Public Comment
            • Co-Presidents Jonathan Heller and Sally Shevory attended the meeting in person to read a
                 prepared statement pertaining to their disappointment with the failed override vote. They
                 spoke in favor of working to pass a budget that supports the future of the community to
                 “enhance the quality of public education in Marblehead.”

     II. Consent Action and Agenda Items
         a. Schedule of Bills-Schedules were unavailable and will be voted at the next scheduled meeting.

     III. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
          a. Subcommittee and Liaison Appointment Discussion
             Ms. Fox postponed this discussion item until Ms. Meagan Taylor was expected to join the
             meeting later.

        b. FY24 Budget Discussions
           A conversation about prepayments for out of district special education tuition costs took place.
           It was explained that the process has been in place since FY20. A chart of expenditure history
           from FY19 through FY23 was shared. Assistant Superintendent Cresta recommended a
           prepayment amount of $500k for FY23.

            Ms. Schaeffner inquired about a dollar amount of an anticipated surplus to which Ms. Cresta
            confirmed an estimated surplus of about $500K.

            A discussion and vote on adjusted user fees for the 2023-2024 school year also took place. A
            chart of the suggested fee adjustments was shared. It was mentioned that the increase would be
            reflective of $12 more per athlete with an increase in the family maximum. The adjustments
            would bring in additional revue of about $26,000 to fund freshman sports coaching positions
            and transportation related costs for freshmen athletics.
Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the amended user fee rates for the 2023-2024 school
year as proposed. It was moved by Ms. Alison Taylor and seconded by Ms. Schaeffer. The
motion passes 4-0 all in favor as Ms. Meagan Taylor had not yet joined the meeting remote.

Ms. Fox recognized that Ms. Meagan Taylor joined the meeting at 5:40pm.

A conversation about the reduced services staffing budget priority list took place. Further
discussion about all the possible uses of the surplus funds took place. Discussion about using
one-time funding to fund recurring staffing costs occurred. Ms. Fox recommended having a
comprehensive audit of the special education department completed.

Ms. Fox asked for a motion to allocate funding for a type of audit. It was moved by Ms.
Schaeffner and seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor. Superintendent Buckey recommended speaking
with the Director of Student Services prior to making any decisions to move forward with an
audit.

A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes 4-1.
Ms. Meagan Taylor-No noting she would like Dr. Donnelley’s input prior to voting
Ms. Schaeffner, Ms. Alison Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Fox-all yes

Ms. Schaeffner mentioned working with administration to look at a zero-based budgeting for
staffing specifically. She also recommended bringing in an outside consultant to complete the
process. It was recommended that the discussion be continued at a meeting in August. Ms. Fox
also requested an update on out of district tuition at that time.

After the budget discussion Ms. Fox returned to the subcommittees and liaisons assignments.
Principal Ota recommended holding quarterly forums with parents and teachers to focus their
annual goals similar to the way the Falmouth school committee does.

The following members were appointed to each subcommittee and Superintendent Advisory
Council:
Budget-Sarah Fox and Jennifer Schaeffner
Collective Bargaining-Sarah Fox and Jennifer Schaeffner
Curriculum-Brian Ota and Jennifer Schaeffner
Facilities-Sarah Fox and Alison Taylor
Policy- Alison Taylor and Jennifer Schaeffner

Selectmen MOU-Chairs as needed
Safety Advisory-Brian Ota
Health/Wellness Advisory-Alison Taylor

METCO Liaison-Meagan Taylor
SEPCAC Liaison-Meagan Taylor

A conversation about a communications subcommittee took place and Ms. Schaeffner and Ms.
Alison Taylor voiced their interest in spearheading the process by beginning with community
surveys.
   c. Public Records Request Discussion
      Ms. Fox brought up an investigative report for an athletic program which came up due to a
      public records request. She wondered if information in the report could be used to review
      policies in an effort to avoid similar complaint related situations going forward. Ms. Fox
      explained that the recommendation of legal counsel was to enter an Executive Session to further
      review the report to better understand when complaints were raised, the actions that were taken
      and when and why the investigation was initiated.

       Ms. Fox recommended holding a meeting either at the beginning or end of the retreat or earlier
       than the retreat to schedule an Executive Session meeting.

       Superintendent Buckey asked for clarification regarding if the Executive Session would pertain
       to the records request or the investigation. Ms. Fox confirmed that it would focus on the process
       of the investigation. After Superintendent Buckey inquired, she confirmed after speaking with
       council that the meeting would be under exemption 1.

       After planning for a date, it was decided that a meeting will be tentatively scheduled for July
       20th at 6pm pending the availability of counsel.

   d. School Committee Summer Retreat Discussion-request of topics
      The retreat was decided to be held on Monday August the 7th from 8-12 pending MASC and
      legal counsel availability. Ms. Fox inquired if members had requests pertaining to professional
      development training. Ms. Taylor requested that school committee and Superintendent goals be
      reviewed and outlined by the time the school year starts.

IV. Closing Business
    a. New Business
       None
    b. Correspondence
       Ms. Fox mentioned correspondence regarding an abutter of the Brown School and fence damage
       from the construction project. A conversation about other complaints and how best to address
       them with the Building Project took place.
    c. Adjournment
       Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 7:14pm.

   Respectfully Submitted,
   Lisa Dimier, Secretary
   Marblehead School Committee

   Approved October 5, 2023

   Materials Included:
   Public Comment Statement-MEA
   Schedule of Bills
   Subcommittee and Liaisons Template
   Reduced Service Budget Priority List
   Memo-Prepaid Tuition
   Memo-Users Fees Adjusted for 2023-2024sy
   Sample School Committee Communication Goals-Falmouth
