                             Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                            Thursday April 6, 2023
                                                    7:00pm
     https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/j/91355062068?pwd=eVgyaVNqbUJMMFBqMjF5Qkd3QTJiQT09

Members Present:         Sarah Fox, Sarah Gold, Thomas Mathers, Alison Taylor and Meagan Taylor

Also Present :           John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                         Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations
                         Michele Carlson, High School Assistant Principal
                         Julia Ferreira, Middle School Assistant Principal

I.       Initial Business
         a. Call to Order
              Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7pm.
         b. State of the District
              Superintendent Buckey provided an update on the North Shore Superintendent’s Legislative
              Luncheon held at Whittier Technical School the previous week. The topics covered focused on
              Operational Services Division, Circuit Breaker, Chapter 70 and Chapter71B funding. He further
              shared growth data on student reading results, and increased enrollment numbers since the fall. It
              was mentioned that over 2,088 college applications for about 230 students have been processed.
         c. Commendations
              Ms. Alison Taylor commended the Village School staff for the informative parent night they
              recently held. Ms. Fox commended a former 2016 Marblehead graduate Ilse Schaeffner for
              receiving the Full Bright Scholarship.
         d. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
              Assistant Principal, Michele Carlson was congratulated on being named the High School Principal
              and current Principal, Daniel Bauer was recognized for his years of service to the high school
              students and staff.
              • A doughnut fundraiser took place during MCAS along with a bakesale
              • A Community Art Night fundraiser was held at the end of March and $1,200 was raised
              • The Sophomores have recently held multiple fundraiser
              • The Seniors recently held a bingo night fundraiser
              • Quarter 4 begins on April 10th and April break is scheduled for April 27th-April 21st.
              • The Music Department will be visiting Disney World to perform with students
              • The French Department will be traveling with seventeen students to France
              • The musical Legally Blonde is scheduled for April 28th-April 30th
              • A sports update was provided
         e. Public Comment None

II.      Consent Action and Agenda Items
         a. Approval of Minutes 10/13/2022,11/1/2022,11/10/2022,3/21/2023,3/27/2023
         b. Schedule of Bills
         c. Acceptance of Anonymous Donation in the amount of $2,000K to the High School Performing Arts
            Department
            Ms. Fox mentioned that the minutes from 10/13 and 11/1 will be added to a future agenda.
            She asked for a motion to approve the minutes from 11/10/2022, 3/21/23 and 3/27/2023, the
            schedule of bills and the anonymous donation which was moved by Mr. Mathers and seconded by
            Ms. Gold. The motion passes 5-0.
III.   Superintendent Report
       a. District Updates
          Superintendent Buckey shared that the Innovation Pathway Grant had been approved in the amount
          of $75,000, 00 for the first year and $50,000.00 each subsequent year.

IV.    School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
       a. Meet High School Principal Michele Carlson and Approve Contract
          Committee members congratulated Ms. Carlson on her new position and Ms. Fox asked for a
          motion to approve Ms. Carlson’s contract for the High School Principal. The motion was moved by
          Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor. The motion passes 5-0.
       b. Appoint and Approve Contract for Assistant Superintendent Julia Ferreira
          Ms. Ferreira provided a brief work history and thanked the committee for being considered for the
          Assistant Superintendent position. Ms. Fox asked for a motion to appoint and approve Ms.
          Ferreira’s contract for Assistant Superintendent. The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded
          by Ms. Alison Taylor. The motion passes 5-0.
       c. Planning for Success PfS Strategic Plan Development: Next Steps
          Mr. Mathers spoke in favor of evaluating the progress of the individual pillars of success on an
          annual basis to ensure the district remains on track with meeting the goals of the Strategic Plan. A
          conversation about how to approach implementing next steps took place. Superintendent Buckey
          recommended having the point person for each of the five focus areas attend a meeting prior to any
          additional work taking place.
       d. Discussion of Superintendent Review
          Ms. Fox provided an update about the review process from a conversation she had with a MASC
          representative. It was explained that most districts either 1) individually rate the Superintendent and
          the Chairperson compiles the data for the final rating or 2) individually rate and the Chairperson
          and the Secretary compile the data for the final rating.

          Committee member Mathers recommended coming together with the individual ratings as a
          committee to total and deliberate the final. Ms. Fox recommended posting the meeting as a
          workshop. Ms. Fox will send some dates for consideration for the end of May.
       e. FY24 Budget Planning and Discussion
          Ms. Fox mentioned leaving a placeholder on every meeting to discuss budget related items that
          may come up. She mentioned that the warrant hearing is scheduled for Monday. Ms. Fox also
          mentioned that more information on the capital ask is expected soon.
       f. Subcommittee and Liaisons Updates
          A policy meeting is scheduled the following week.
          Scheduling a meeting at METCO Inc headquarters was mentioned but no date has been finalized.

V.     Closing Business
       a. New Business None
       b. Correspondence
          Ms. Fox mentioned correspondence that has been sent to various committee members regarding
          books. Mr. Mathers reminded the committee to refer to policy for handling complaints which
          should be dealt with at the operational level. A conversation about good governance and school
          committee roles took place.
       c. Adjournment
          Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 7.52pm.

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved April 27, 2023
