Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Thursday November 2, 2023

7:00PM
Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner, Alison Taylor. Meaghan Taylor
Also Present: Michelle Cresta-Acting Superintendent, Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent

I. Initial Business

a. Call to Order

Ms. Fox calfed the meeting to order at 7:00PM

b, Commendations

* Sarah Fox commended Jamie Yomtov, Nurse Beth Stanojev, and Carla Rose
© Accidents occurred almost simultaneously in different areas of town
© All three of them stopped and assisted until EMS could arrive
« Sarah Fox wants fo commend the Village School on publishing their first newspaper this week
“Sarah Fox wants to commend all staff for their ability to “do more with less”
« Sarah Fox wants to commend Michelle Cresta for all of the work she has done during the past
few months for her role as Acting Superintendent
« Meaghan Taylor wants to commend the Building Committee for the Brown Elementary School
for being selected as a model school
«Meaghan Taylor would also like to commend the many High Schoo! students that have reached
out fo the School Committee recently to share their perspectives
* Brian Ota would like to commend to the Brown School, Mary Maxfield, the rest of the staff and
students on their first practice evacuation drill

c. Public Comment

* Jonathan Heller 26 Ralph Rd-MEA Co-President and Sally Shevory 80 Garfield St-MEA Co-
President

oO Jonathan started with this statement “As a Union we stand together fo let you know that
the MEA will not tolerate harassment or bullying of any kind including such behavior
directed at our members”

QO Johnathan went on to state that for the entire staff, from Para’s to Tutors, to Custodians
that “the morale is at an all-time low”

Oo Jonathan references the posts made on social media and the articles in the papers that is
causing a “toxic environment that impacts our educators and our ability to work”

Oo He states that “these actions are not warranted” and is leading to a mistrust and
disconnect between the school leadership and our educators as well as the parents and
community as a whole

--- page break ---

oO Jonathan goes on to outline the number of FOIA requests received from July |, 2022-
June 30, 2023 (28 total) and since July 1, 2023 the district has received 45 requests or
amended requests which he sites is a 65% increase in 4 months

o He calls on the community to “end the cycle of mistrust and suspicion” that has brought

us to the point of receiving “sweeping FOIA requests” for additional information

surrounding incidents occurring with our educators

Sally Shevory begins speaking about her time with Marblehead Public Schools

Sally states that the community is one that “first and foremost” carcs about education

She states that over the last few years “the world around us has been shaken”

Sally continues that along the way somehow we “forgot where our priorities lie” stating

the “climate in our schools is unsettling to say the least. Over the last few years the

community has fost trust in teachers”

Oo She references the FOTA that was just received that is requesting to search “All staff
emails to see if we hare hiding anything, specifically complaints”

Oo Sally states that this FOIA is a “waste of time and resources that could be far better spent
in the schools”

oO Sally goes on to state that we will be welcoming Theresa McGuinnes back to the disttict
and is hopeful that she will be able to help us to “abandon all personal vendetias” and that
the community “return to the commitment of providing our students with the best
education possible”

"Sarah Fox shares the Public Records Request with the attendees of the School Committee
meeting

=» Mary McCariston-46 Pine Crest Drive

© Mary begins by stating that she “called around (o 21 different communities to find out if
they have a flag policy”

oO She stated that a lot of the communities she reached out to do not have flag policies and
one of the schools, Wellesley, displays any and all flags that the students want to see on
one wall

Oo She questions how all students are going to feel supported if we have a policy in place
that does not allow for different flags to be displayed visually in our schools

« Chris Brule 212 West Shore Drive

o Chris begins by asking about safety as it relates to “unauthorized individuals” entering
the schools to remove the flags from the walls

« Four High School Students (did not get names from recording)

© The students spoke about the letter that they wrote to the School Committee last week
expressing that they were disappointed that the Policy Committee that was meeting on
Friday was during School hours

oO They stated that they were disappointed “because this issues is directly relevant to us as
students”

© They would like to discuss with the School Committee outside of school hours the impact
that a Flag policy might have on current students

oO One of the students went on to state “we believe that removal of existing flags can make
many students feel they aren’t valued at Marblehead High School”

* Sarah Fox points out that there has been a lot of public comment regarding the possible flag
policy and the misinformation that was released into the community surrounding the intent
behind the policy

© The policy is not intended to “take things down”

o0o0 0

--- page break ---

© Sarah notes that unless a Policy is in place “you have to say yes fo everything”
#  Nikia Bell-Green Street
o What bothers Nikia the most is that her child is coming to Marblehead Public Schools
from a different town
© She states that they already feel like “they’re not welcome in our town”
Oo She feels as though it is a “slap in the face” that the parent who took down the flag has
not been banned from entering the school
» Cindy Tower Loewen-Did not state address
oO Cindy stated by thanking Nikia for her statement
oO She states that she understands that there is no back and forth but in this particular
instance “there should have been a response back”
oO She points out that a parent was able to go into the building and take the flag down which
is “not acceptable”
© Cindy points out that there needs to be student and community involvement in the
creation of this policy
o Cindy commends the administrators and educators who have tried to make a difference in
this community
* Tena Cersei-Dorchester MA
Oo Tena has concerns about the removal of the flag like everyone else
oO Tena states “the parent needs to pay for that, the children are innocent”
© She states that there have been statements made to her son regarding his background and
ethnicity
© ‘Tena states that “these are children, we can talk to children about certain things” but
“when an adult in the community is making my son feel uncomfortable and after
speaking to the principal and teachers there is nothing being done, that is a problem”

d, Student Representative-Kat Piper

* The class of 2028 Open House will be held on 11/8

« The Tri M honor society held a Halloween Breakfast on Tuesday 10/31

* The French Honor Socicty is selling Croissants and Crepes this month at hunch for National
French Week

» The Senior class of 2024 is selling bagels at lunch

* The National Honor Society is resuming its tutoring program at MHS

«The Annual Rock the nights gala is taking place at Hooper Mansion tonight and the funds raised
will go towards concert and theater support

«The end of the current quarter will end on 11/9

» All Fall sports teams have moved on to their Championship Scasons at this point

* Unified Basketball team is celebrating Senior Night tonight, 11/02

« Powder Puffis under way and the Seniors are selling merchandise

" The Senior Show hosts were determined last week

* Halloween had a good showing this year with each grade taking on a different themed costume

Il. District Updates - Michelle Cresta

b, Financial Update FY23 and FY24

--- page break ---

» Michelle Cresta starts by thanking Chief Dennis King for applying for “Safe Routes to School
Signs and Lines Grant” that we have been awarded
* FY23 is closed on the Schools end and the town is still working on their end
© Marblehead did end up with some additional funds that we used towards “onetime costs”
Oo Some of these onetime costs include security system upgrades, security badge updates as
well as furniture replacement
Oo We were also able to pay some out of district tuitions
oO Final financial reports, including all grants and revolving funds, have been provided to
the School Committee
= For FY24 so far we have spent 11.2% of our operating budget, this time fast year we had spent
(0.9%
© Still have staffing vacancies bul they are not as significant as last year at this time
o We do still struggle filling some staffing positions at this time
"These positions include Substitute Teachers, Substitute Custodians as well as
Substitute Lunch Workers
oO We do continue to watch our out of district transportation costs and we seem to be on
track with what we have budgeted for this year at this time
» Sarah brings up the ability to utilize a cleaning service to fill some of the holes to ensure that our
schools are being taken care of
© Michelle points out that they discontinued using a cleaning service to fill the holes in
custodial staff due to the cost

Ill. Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills (vote)

Motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $105,084.84.

Moved by Ms. Shaeffner, Seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor

Mr, Ofa, Ms. Meaghan Taylor, Ms, Alison Taylor, Ms. Shaeffner and Ms, Fox-All Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

b. Approval of Minutes (vote)

Motion to approve the minutes from 08/11/23 as presented

Moved by Ms. Shaeffner, Seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor

Mr. Ota, Ms, Meaghan Taylor, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Shaeffier and Ms. Fox-All Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

TV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

a. Approval of Basketball overnight fieldtrip (vote)

--- page break ---

* Mr. Giardi explains that the trip this year will be to Springfield and they wili be visiting the
Basketball Hall of Fame as well as participating in a Boy Girl Basketball game

Motion to approve the Basketball overnight field trip for the night of Saturday February 10, 2024
returning on Sunday February 11, 2024

The motion is moved by Ms. Shaeffner and seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor
A roll cali vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0
Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Ms Taylor, Mr. Ofa and Ms. Shaeffner-Al! Yes

b. Veteran’s Middle Schoo! Basketball Hoop Donation (vote)

* Mr. Fox explains that we received a very generous offer from the Friends of Marblehead
Basketball to purchase two new Basketball hoops for the MVMS Gym

Motion to approve the Donation from the Friends of Marblehead Basketballfor the donation of Basketball
hoops to the Veterans School Gymnasium

Moved by Ms. Shaeffner, Seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor

Mr. Ota, Ms. Meaghan Taylor, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Shaeffyer and Ms, Fox-Alf Yes
Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

¢. Village Scoreboard Donation and Naming Request (vote)

«We received some communication from Marblehead Youth Football requesting fo be able to
fundraise to replace the Scoreboard over at Hopkins Field

Afotion to approve fundraising efforts for a new scoreboard in like kind to include same size to be labeled
Ds: Hopkins field in accordance with policy KCD

Moved by Ms. Shaeffner, Seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor
Opened up for Discussion

* Meaghan Taylor requests clarification on the motion as well as requests Sarah Fox to outline what
a KCD policy is

«Sarah Fox explains that KCD is the district’s policy on “public gifis” and reads the policy

* Matt Martin requests clarification on the portion of the policy in which it states that the donor is
not able to “advertise” themselves on the new scoreboard (“no extensive advertising of
promotions”)

+ The School Committee has requested a “mock up” of the sign for approval to ensure it does not
go against the “extensive advertising policy”

Motion to table the motion until a “mock up” of the scoreboard has been received and reviewed

--- page break ---

Seconded by Jennifer Shaeffner

Mr. Ota, Ms. Meaghan Taylor, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Shaeffner and Ms. Fox-All Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

d. Vaping Preventfions and Response

* Jennifer Shaeffner begins by stating that she has heard from many people in town by email,
phone, and on social media for years that students are unwilling fo go into use the bathrooms
because of the “extensive vaping” primarily at the High School

« Jennifer asks what we are doing to make sure that students feel they an use the restroom during
the school day without being faced with this

" Michelle Carlson begins fo explain what the High School has in place to mitigate vaping in
school

QO There are Vape Detectors in the “gang” bathrooms or the ones with more than one stall
which when vape smoke is detected if sends a text message and an email of the location
of the detector that has gone off so they arc able to go investigate

o The administrators are constantly monitoring the bathrooms

Oo When a student is caught vaping there is a diversion program to educate the students on
why nof to do it

Oo Gina goes into the statistics of students who vape and points out that it usually begins
outside of school so they are “coming to school already addicted”

* She begins to talk about the MGI Decide diversion program and how they are
focusing on diversion as opposed to punishment

* Gina points out that we need to “shift the focus to prevention because once kids
are addicted we're kind of too late”

“Gina reads some of the language used by this program “Any student with a
substance use infraction will be referred to receive cycle education in order to
reduce recidivism and provide support. It is a Tier 2 intervention intended for
adolescence who have begun to show early signs of problematic substance use”

9 Michelle Carlson points out that the parents are notified no matter what and if the student
does refuse the Diversion program that they do move on to the next step which is
typically a suspension or Saturday detention

oO Sarah Fox asks if there is any data on the students after the program has been completed
on how many of these students are still “free from these products”

* Gina indicates that this MGH program is part of a larger grant that also focuses
on the results after the program

fe)

Motion to approve

Moved by Ms. Shaeffner, Seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor

Mr. Ota, Ms. Meaghan Taylor, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Shaeffner and Ms. Fox-All Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

d, Approval of School Improvement Plans (Veteran’s Middle Schoo! & Marblehead High School) (vote)

--- page break ---

* Matt Fox begins with the Improvement Plans for the Veteran’s Middle School
oO Matt Fox outlines the MVMS District Strategic Objectives, Initiatives, and School Based
Goals
© Matt goes on the outline the Improvement Strategics which includes Action Steps for
these Improvement Strategies
oO The PDF of all Strategic Objectives, Initiatives and School Based Goals as well as the
linprovement Strategies is available on Marbleheadschools.org under the Agenda and
Materials
* Michelle Carlson Begins with the Improvement Plans for the Marblehead High Schoo!
© Michelle Carlson outlines the MHS District Strategic Objectives, Initiatives, and School
Based Goals
Oo Michelle goes on to outlines the lmprovement Strategies which includes Action Steps for
these Improvement Strategies
Oo The PDF of all Strategic Objectives, Initiatives and School Based Goals as well as the
Improvement Strategies is available on Marbleheadschools.org under the Agenda and
Materials

Motion to approve the Veterans Middles School and Marblehead High School School Improvement Plans
as presented

Moved by Ms. Shaeffiner, Seconded by Ms, Alison Taylor
Mr. Ota, Ms. Meaghan Taylor, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Shaeffner and Ms. Fox-All Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

f. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates and Discussion

* Jennifer Shaeffner-Policy Subcommittee
oO Alison Taylor and Jennifer Shaeffner met last week
' 0 Talked about student electronic usage-specifically email usage
o They discussed Flags, Banners and Signs to come up with a pelicy
"They will bring a draft to the School Committee in the coming weeks
* Jennifer discussed that student input in this policy is important
«Sarah Fox-Finance Subcommittee
O In the last finance meeting the Finance Subcommittee was able to dive into the data that
Michelle had provided
© For FY23 one of the biggest overages was Out of District Transportation
Oo The committee is looking at the trends and data to inform areas that need to be focused
on as we move forward
» Brian Ota-Safety Advisory Subcommittee
Oo Met last week
© Everyone is working hard to get the ALICE protocols in place

V. Closing Business

a, New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests

--- page break ---

« Brian brought up that in the past the Schoo! Committee had rotated some of the mectings to the
different schools. He would like to suggest doing that again.
« Meaghan Taylor would like to get two items on the next agenda
© Meaghan would like to make sure that there are some priorities/goals set for Mr.
McGuinness now that she is coming on board
© Meaghan would also like to add to next mecting’s agenda a discussion about the
Permanent Superintendent search

b. Correspondence
None
Meeting is adjourned at 9:21PM by School Committee Chair Ms. Fox

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead Schoo! Committee

