                             Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                           Thursday January 5, 2023
                                                   7:00pm
                                             High School Library

                                                Zoom Recording ID
       https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/j/98925717688?pwd=cGh1VFVERFY4QXNHNDhDcWVGb2NWZz09


Members Present: Sarah Fox, Sarah Gold and Alison Taylor
Remote Participants: Meagan Taylor

Also:                  John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                       Lauren Kinder, Glover School Nurse
                       Hope Doran, Glover School Principal
                       Mary Maxfield, Brown School Principal
                       Mathew Fox, Veterans Middle School Principal
                       Daniel Bauer, High School Principal
                       Joe Kowalik, Marblehead Light Department General Manager
                       Michelle Cresta, Director of Finance

I.       Initial Business
        a. Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:01pm
        b. Commendations
            Ms. Gold commended IT Director, Stephen Kwiatek for the smartboard installations over the December
            break.
        c. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
            It was mentioned that Yasen would be joining the committee at the next regularly scheduled meeting
        d. Public Comment-none

II.      Consent Action and Agenda Items
        a. Approval of Minutes-11/17/2022, 12/1/2022, and 12/15/2022
           Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the minutes from 11/17 and 12/1 2022 noting that 12/15 was
           added in error and would be reviewed at the next meeting. The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and
           seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor. The motion passes, 4-0.

           Ms. Gold, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Meagan Taylor and Ms. Fox-all yes
        b. Appointment of School Nurse-Lauren Kinder
           Ms. Fox asked for a motion to appoint Ms. Lauren Kinder as the Glover school nurse pending hiring
           negotiations. The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor

           Ms. Gold, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Meagan Taylor and Ms. Fox-all yes. The motion passes, 4-0.

III.     Superintendent Report
           This agenda item was taken out of order. The ThoughtExchange Presentation was provided first.
        a. Massachusetts Comprehensive Assessment System, MCAS Testing Update
           Elementary School Principals, Hope Doran and Mary Maxfield

           Principals Doran and Maxfield gave an overview of recent years test administration and provided a
           summary of grade level scores per content area. It was shared that students performed above the state
         average in both English Language Arts and Mathematics even in instances in which there was a decrease
         in scores from the previous year. The principals noted that data would be used to inform WIN, “What I
         Need” instruction and to support future curriculum selection processes. Vertical alignment with the
         Village School was also mentioned.

         After the presentation a discussion about the types of learning programs still used from the 2021-2022
         school year took place. A committee member inquired about how the results could have been affected by
         the split Bell/Coffin cohort of students. A further discussion about a more robust literacy program also
         occurred.
      b. Though Exchange Presentation-School Start Times
         High School and Middle School Principals, Daniel Bauer and Matthew Fox
         Principal Fox provided results from a recent student ThoughtExchange which was focused on school day
         start times. It was noted that out of the over 360 students that participated, 78% of students surveyed
         answered in favor of a later start time. Principal Fox explained that data would be further reviewed along
         with all options for adjusting the start time. A recommendation regarding the potential for a proposed
         change would be brought back to the committee before the end of the year.

         A committee member reminded the committee about the possibility of considering staggered start times
         as recommended in a recent transportation audit.

         High School Principal, Daniel Bauer recognized two students, Harrison Curtis and Lucy Sabin
          and a list of their accomplishments for a NESDEC sponsored award for Academic Growth and Student
         Leadership in Learning.
      c. 2023-2024 School Year Draft Calendar Presentation
         Superintendent Buckey shared a draft of the proposed 2023-2024 school year calendar explaining that
         the scheduling mirrored the current year calendar while also taking into consideration staff and
         community feedback. The following highlights were shared
         • Three professional development days would be scheduled to begin the year before Labor Day on
             August 29th through the 31st with a new staff orientation scheduled for August 28th
         • School would begin after Labor Day on Tuesday September 5th for grades 1st-12th
         • Pre-K & Kindergarten would begin two days later on Thursday, September 7th
         • A full conference day is still to be determined in December. A conversation about moving that date
             to another month is underway
         • A half day for conferences will still be scheduled
         • December 22nd will be a half day heading into the holiday recess
         • Good Friday on March 29th will be a half day
         • The proposed last day of school will be Friday, June 14th, pending no snow cancellations.

IV.   District Updates
      i. Senior Property Tax Work-off Program
      Superintendent Buckey explained that the council on aging will be offering a property tax work-off
      program. Applications are available online or at the Council on Aging. All Town departments can
      participate but not all departments have openings. The school will be taking advantage of the opportunity.

      It was also shared that a bus driver has been hired and forty-five k-6th grade pay to ride bus spots have
      become available. The facilities assistant, Ms. Manning was commended for her coordinating with families.

      Ms. Fox inquired about opening up vacant seats to older students. It was explained that age gaps needed to
      be taken into consideration for safety and other reasons.
V.     Marblehead Light Department Informational Update-Rolling Blackouts
       General Manger, Joseph Kowalik
       Mr. Kowalik presented information on the potential for rolling blackouts and the steps that would be
       followed to conserve energy in the Town should there be a future need to do so. He explained what rolling
       balckouts are and noted the low probability of a rolling blackout occurring.

       It was mentioned that ISO New England closely monitors the demand for natural gas to meet increased
       need during prolonged periods of cold. Orders to reduce a customer’s demand for electricity would come
       from ISO New England and then “load shedding” would begin. Load shedding is the process of managing
       rotating blackout intervals throughout a Town so energy can be utilized at a lower output.

       A conversation pertaining to the following topics took place:
       • How often energy assessments are completed to monitor cold spells
       • The process for implementing the blackouts and how to educate the community about notifications
       • The probability of utilizing the Brown School as a shelter
       • Prioritizing blackout intervals so the schools could remain open

VI.     Finance Organizational Support
       a. Schedule of Bills
           Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $337.769.96. The motion was
           moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms. Alsion Taylor. The motion passes, 4-0.

          Ms. Gold, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Meagan Taylor and Ms. Fox-all yes

VII.    School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
       a. Town Warrant Articles for Consideration
          Ms. Fox requested adding a placeholder for a proposition 2 ½ override, a debt exclusion override as well
          as for a transfer of school properties as requested by committee member Gold.

          Ms. Cresta also mentioned the need for adding a place for special ed tuition in and a transportation
          override in preparation for a transportation revolving fund.

          Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve all the placeholder requests and allow Ms. Cresta to work with
          the Town for appropriate wording. The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms. Alison
          Taylor.

          Ms. Taylor requested voting the articles individually as no wording was provided in advance of the
          meeting. Ms. Fox also mentioned holding a facilities subcommittee meeting next week to sponsor the
          wording. Ms. Taylor was not in agreement as she felt the final wording should be brought before the full
          committee to approve.

          After a brief discussion, Ms. Fox amended the motion for placeholders for the Town Warrant to include:
          1) a debt exclusion override
          2) a proposition 2 1/5 override
          3) along with a special ed revolving fund
          4) and the establishment of a transportation revolving fund

          with wording to be worked out between Town council and Ms. Cresta. The motion was moved by Ms.
          Gold and seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor.
           Ms. Gold, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Meagan Taylor and Ms. Fox-all yes

           It was confirmed that January 20th was the deadline for submission.
        b. School Committee Member Vacancy Update
           Ms. Fox confirmed that the interviews for applicants will be held on January 23rd at 7pm at Abbot Hall.
           The Town Administrator’s assistant, Kyle is working with applicants to confirm interview schedules.
        c. Subcommittee and Liaisons Updates
           • Facilities capital requests are delayed due to awaiting financial information from the Town
               It was confirmed that unaddressed items would be rolled into the new request and reranked
           • The budget subcommittee met with the finance committee liaisons and budget presentations were
               discussed. Final information needs to be provided to the finance committee before the 27th of March.

VIII.    Closing Business
        a. New Business
           • The budget workshops will be moved from the 9th and 10th to the following week, the 17th and 18th.
               It was decided that the budget workshop will be scheduled for Tuesday the 17th only beginning at
               6pm. No committee meeting will take place on the 19th.
IX.      Correspondence
         An email regarding goose poop covering the Brown School play yard was received. The concern is being
         addressed with the Park and Recreation department and facilities.
X.       Adjournment
         M. Fox adjourned the meeting at 8:54pm.


        Materials Included:
         Nurse Resume-Lauren Kinder
        MCAS Results Presentation-Brown and Glover Elementary School
        ThoughtExchange Presentation Results-School Start Times
        2023-2024sy Calendar-DRAFT
        Senior Property Tax Work-off Program Information
        Schedule of Bills

        Respectfully Submitted,
        Lisa Dimier, Secretary
        Marblehead School Committee

        Approved February 16, 2023
