Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Thursday November 16, 2023
7:00PM

Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Shaeffer, Alison Taylor. Meaghan Taylor

Also Present: Dr. Theresa McGuinnes-Interim Superintendent, Michelle Cresta-Assistant
Superintendent of Finance, Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and

Learning
l. Initial Business

a, Call to Order

Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00PM

b. Commendations

* Brian Ota would like to commend our Custodians, Bus Drivers, Nurses, Cafeteria staff,

Secretaries, Para’s and Tutors, Specials Teachers, Physical Education Teachers, ELA Teachers,
School Psychologists, Counselors, Social Workers, Speech Therapists, and last but not least our
General and Special Education Teachers

» Brian would like to thank all of us for the work that we do for our students and staff

« Sarah Fox states that she has such “deep gratitude” for all of our staff as we head into
Thanksgiving
* Jonathan Heller and Sally Shevory the Co-Chairs of the MEA would like to commend all of our

educators and support staff for their hard work and dedication to keeping Marblehead Public
Schools students safe healthy and successful

« Alison Taylor would like to wish the Marblehead Youth Hockey team good luck in their

tournament against St. Lambert in Canada

c. Public Comment
«Mary McCarriston-Pine Cliff Drive Marblehead

o Mary has been making phone calls to other cities and towns regarding the Flag Policy
o She spoke to a Lawyer regarding the parent removal of the flag in the MHS Cafeteria

* Tania (get last name from last week’s minutes)-Dorchester


--- page break ---

o Tania would like to know if the School Committee has come up with a consequence for

the removal of the flag
o She would like to make sure that her son feels comfortable in school and at this time he

does not feel comfortable
o “Somebody needs to have some compassion for what is going on”

Nyla Dubois-Green Street Marblehead

o Nyla started by stating that she “feels awful that there are any kids who feel like taking

down that flag was a gesture of racism”

o She goes on to state that “the problem | see with the flags is that a flag may be a sybolg of
safety for one person it might be a symbol of something else for someone else”

o Nyla states that she “doesn’t believe that the school should be an arbiter of who fees safe

and who doesn’t”

d. Student Representative-Kat Piper

High school entered Q2 on 11/13

National Honors Society has resumed their tutoring program which pairs students with peer tutos
in every subject

The honor society is conducting a Food Drive for Thanksgiving
Acapella is holding is annual “Sing Free or Die Hard” concert on Tuesday 11/21 at 7PM

The Animal Wellness Club is running a Pet Supply Collection Bin which they will donate to the
Northeast Animal Shelter

The Marblehead Drama Club will be holding auditions for the student written plan “It’s about
Pirates and Nothing Else” on 12/04

There will be a Pep Rally at the High School on 11/22 in preparation for the Thanksgiving
football game

The sophomore class is selling raffle tickets for a chance to pie a teacher in the face at the Pep
Rally

The Juniors have started looking for items to self off for the annual Junior Class Auction and they

have also been selling sweatpants, tank tops and headbands to show their spirit for the
Powderpuff game on Saturday 11/25

The powederpuff Senior girls have been participating in Spirit Week in preparation for their big
game

The Senior swill have their potluck brunch on 11/19

Both Cross Country teams will be advancing to All Stages this Saturday 11/25


--- page break ---

* Football is preparing for its annual Thanksgiving game on Thanksgiving at 10AM

a. District Updates-Dr. Theresa McGuinness

« The Veterans school was celebrated in the newspaper today for their MCAS results
o They are currently 30th in the ranking for all of MA. The DOE provided this recognition
o 65% of the students scoring above average or exceeding in Mathematics and 66% in
reading
* Dr. McGuinness refers to a Memorandum that was added to the Schoo! Committee Agenda that

provides a bit of an introduction into who Dr. McGuinness is and how she is beginning to lead the
district at this time and includes her “Entry Plan”

« Budget Update will be provided by Assistant Superintendent Michelle Cresta

«= Dr. McGuinness references the “New Superintendent Induction Program” which is a partnershi
p £

between the Department of Education and the MA Association of School Committees
o This program ensures that there is support and strategy development done with coaching
o Jane Tremblay will be Dr. McGuinnes’s coach and she will be joining the next School

committee meeting

* Tuesday was Ruby Bridges “Walk to School Day” for Village, Glover and Brown Schools

» FY 25 Budget Status Update-Michelle Cresta

o Starting the process for the FY25 Budget process
o Packets should be provided to principals in the next day or two and returned by |2/18/23

for Finance Team review
oO The intent is to have Budget books to the Committee by 01/12/24

© The Town has requested that we provide them with two budgets

=»  Qne for “Level Services” and one for “Reduced Services”

«= “Reduced Services” maintains the current level of funding that we have in FY

2024
oO The final budget recommendation will be brought to the School Committee before if goes

to the Finance Committee for approval

Ill. Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills (vote)

Motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $768,417.87.
Moved by Ms. Shaeffer, Seconded by Mr.Ota

Ms. Meagan Taylor, Ms Alison Taylor, Mr. Ota, Ms. Shaeffer and Ms. Fox-All Yes


--- page break ---

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

b. Approval of Minutes (vote)

Motion to approve the minutes from 08/24/23 pending the edits mentioned

Moved by Ms. Shaeffer, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Ms Alison Taylor, Mr. Ota, Ms. Shaeffer and Ms, Fox-All Yes with one abstention
Ms. Meagan Taylor abstained from the vote

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

Motion to approve the minutes from 09/07/23 and 10/11/23

Moved by Ms. Shaeffer, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Ms. Meagan Taylor, Ms Alison Taylor, Mr. Ota, Ms. Shaeffer and Ms. Fox-All Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

IV. Schoo! Committee Communication and Discussion Items

a. Forum / Community Discussion Topics

« There will be a series of Public Community Forums in which there will be a discussion with the
committee and the public

* The public will ask questions and the committee will answer them

« The first one the School Committee would like to have is on budget in the beginning of December
b. Approval of School Improvement Plans (Glover, Brown and Village Schools) (vote)

» Amanda Murphy- Village School Principal

o Amanda goes through the improvement plans for the Village School
o Plan can be found in the Agenda, Materials and Minutes section of
MarbleheadSchools.org

«= Mary Maxfield and Hope Doran

o Mary and Hope go through the improvement plans for the Brown and Glover Schoools
o Plan can be found in the Agenda, Materials and Minutes section of
MarbleheadSchools.org

Motion to approve the School Improvement Plans as presented for the Glover School, the Lucretia and
Joseph Brown School and the Village School


--- page break ---

Moved by Ms. Shaeffer, Seconded by Mr. Ota
Ms. Meagan Taylor, Ms Alison Taylor, Mr. Ota, Ms. Shaeffer and Ms. Fox-All Yes
A vote was taken and the motion passes 5-0

c. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates and Discussion

» Sarah Fox talks about the Conference attended and highlighted the workshops provided

«Policy Committee-Jennifer Shaeffer

© The Policy Committee has not met since the last School Committee meeting
o Jennifer would like to set up a meeting for after Thanksgiving

V. Closing Business

a. New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests

« Sarah Fox requests information on Al and how we’re using it in our school

* Sarah asks questions to Julia Ferreira about the program IReady

« Meagan Taylor references the list of priorities for the Interim Superintendent Role and when

those priorities will be laid out for Dr. McGuinnes

b. Correspondence

» None

Meeting is adjourned at 8:26 PM by School Committee Chair Ms. Fox

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
