                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                               Thursday March 2, 2023
                                       7:00pm
                            Marblehead High School- Library
                                    2 Humphrey St.

                               https://marbleheadschools-
      org.zoom.us/j/92541248411?pwd=YXNtSTZYWDB1SzY0QkJ5K0NWUFZJZz09

Members Present:       Sarah Fox, Sarah Gold, Thomas Mathers, Alison Taylor and Meagan Taylor

Remote Participants:


Also Present :       John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                     Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                     Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations

I.     Initial Business
       a. Call to Order
           Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00pm.
           Superintendent Buckey shared an update on all of the work happening behind the scenes
           with the staff, students, police, the MBTA and news outlets to locate two missing high
           school students.
       b. State of the District
           Superintendent Buckey shared slides in celebration of student achievement. The results
           focused on PSAT results and state comparison data in the subject areas of reading and
           math. It was shared that the graduating class of 2023 has been accepted into a total of
           about 132 different schools.
       c. Commendations
           Ms. Gold commended the boys indoor track team for a member making it to Nationals,
           she recognized the girls swim team for making it to State and acknowledged both of the
           ski teams who placed 2nd in States.
       d. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
           The student representative, Yasen will be in attendance at the next regularly scheduled
           meeting.
       e. Public Comment
           None
II.    Consent Action and Agenda Items
       a. Approval of Minutes-1/23/2023, 1/30/2023 and 2/13/2023
           Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the minutes from 1/23, 1/30 and 2/13/2023 and to
           approve the schedule of bills in the amount of $253,997.71. The motion was moved by
           Ms. Gold and and seconded by Mr. Mathers. The motion passes, 5-0.
       b. Schedule of Bills
           Approved and voted under the approval of minutes section
       c. Approval of Overnight and /or Out of State Filed Trip
           DECA Trip (formerly known as Distributive Clubs of America)
           Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the overnight DECA trip to State Finals on 3/9
           through 3/11/2023. The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Mr. Mathers.
           The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor.
III.   Superintendent Report
       a. High School and Assistant Superintendent Search Update
          The initial meeting for the high school principal search took place on Tuesday via zoom
          due to the snow day cancellation. A total of 8 applicants will be paper screened beginning
          the following week.
          Prior to discussing the timeline for the Assistant Superintendent Search, Sarah Fox was
          named as the search representative for that committee. The first meeting is scheduled for
          Monday and the paper screening for the 26 applicants will also begin that week. The list
          of search committee members was included in the materials packet for the evening along
          with a tentative timeline.
       b. Safes Routes to Schools Update
          Superintendent Buckey shared a list of the connections each school has with Safe Routes
          including taking advantage of their grant opportunities and safety audits for walking and
          biking to school along with recommendations for implementing safer arrival/dismissal
          procedures.
       c. Bussing Update
          Superintendent Buckey happily reported that the Distirct now has three full time bus
          drivers, 1 part time bus driver and two additional staff members that are licensed and can
          provide backup coverage if required. The number of students transported within the
          District was mentioned and the numbers of those students that pay to participate in the Pay
          to Ride program was also shared. Three bus routes run daily along with a 7D vehicle.
       d. Sustainability Update
          Memorandums for the work being done at each building to increase sustainability efforts
          were shared with the committee. Highlights include:
          • Recycling bins in each classroom
          • Refillable water stations
          • Reusable cafeteria trays and silverware
          • Organic Gardens at the elementary schools
          • Composting at the middle and high schools
          • High School environmental honor Society
          • High School greenhouse project being developed
       e. District Updates
          No further District updates were shared.

IV.    School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
       a. Review of FY24 Budget Timeline
          Ms. Fox explained the Town has yet to close their books. Joint budget subcommittee
          meetings are being scheduled.
       b. FY24 Budget Planning and Discussion
          Superintendent Buckey shared that there are currently three different versions of the
          budget that could be presented. 1) the austerity budget, 2) the level service budget and 3)
          the leadership aspirational budget which is the budget the leadership team presented at the
          budget workshop.

          A committee discussion about benefits costs savings to the District pertaining to vacancies
          and retirement took place and committee members inquired why the savings couldn’t be
          recalculated by the Town to help fund other requests. A discussion about the use of
          Chapter 70 funding occurred and further conversation about warrant articles and the use
          of ARPA funds occurred. It was decided that using ARPA funds for one-time costs may
          be the best approach.

          A timeline of the budget meetings was shared:
           • budget subcommittee on the 3rd
           • hearing on the 21st
           • vote on the 23rd
           • Fincom budget vote on the 27th
       c. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
          A discussion about facilities capital needs requests took place and it was confirmed that a
          meeting for rolling stock is already scheduled for the following week

V.     Closing Business
       a. New Business
          Principal Fox confirmed that more than a one-year contract can be issued to a principal as
          previously discussed during the meeting.
       b. Correspondence
          Ms. Fox explained that an email about tardies came to the committee but it is operational
          and did not apply
       c. Adjournment
          Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 8:36pm


Materials Included:
Student Achievement Presentation Slides
Schedule of Bills
High School Principal and Assistant Superintendent Search Timeline
Memorandum Updates:
Safe Routes to Schools
Bussing
Sustainability


Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved March 16, 2023
