Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Thursday September 21, 2023

7:00PM
Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner , Alison Taylor. Meaghan Taylor
Also Present: Michelle Cresta-Acting Superintendent

L. Initial Business

a, Call to Order

Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00PM
b. Commendations

» High School commended for their Open House on Wednesday 09/20

= October 2" will be School Custodian Day

*» Commendations to the teachers and staff for MCAS Scores rising

=“ Commendations to Tyler Earp for reaching his fundraising goal of $75,000
= Thank you to Ms. Cresta for stepping up as the Acting Superintendent

c. Public Comment
Mr. Bruell-

« Was NASDAQ asked whether or not CPAC members and Metco should be on the search committee

« Comment on paper regarding us being more reserved regarding MCAS scores and if this is something we should be
ignoring

® The School Committee is looking forward to hearing from our subject matter experts, our educators and Ms,
Ferreira so that all the levels and information have been presented

* A comment was made for the record for the record regarding Chris’s question. The search committee’s notes were
referenced from 2019 and that committee did not have a CPAC or Metco member

d, Student Representative-Ms. Piper

= Freshmen elections 10/4

« Spanish Class participating in The Pulsera Project who supports Guatemalan and Nicaraguan artists and sell
handmade bracelets and handbags

« 10/14 Homecoming for Fund the Field

« Senior Seminars are going on now and walks through the college application process

= Open house 09/20 for High School

= Colleges have started in school visits to the High School this week and they are continuing into October

« 10/3 picture day

= Club fair will be in October to advertise School Clubs

= League of Women voters had a voter registration table during lunch

II. District Updates — Ms. Cresta

= Update provided on the start of school

«Glover, Brown and Vets all had well attended Open Houses and Village will have theirs next week
» Schools are closed for Yom Kippor on Monay 09/25.

= MCAS Scores were released

= Atthe next meeting there will be a department overview provided by Ms. Ferreira

= An update was provided on Tyler Earp and the Greenhouse Project

--- page break ---

* Three school handbooks were provided to the School Committee. The Brown School, The Veteran’s Middle
School and the High School. No major changes were made.

Ill. Consent Action and Agenda Items
a. Schedule of Bills (vote)
Motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $503,649.65
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0
Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Ms Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Shaeffner-All Yes
IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items’
a. Interim Superintendent Search Update
= Brief update provided on Superintendent Search
= Received 11 applicants
= Applicants being reviewed
» Moving on to next stages next week
b, ARPA (American Rescue Plan Act) discussion
=" Meeting with the town to discuss the APRA funds has been scheduled
» School Committee is requesting a breakdown from the town of the ARPA funds use

« Information will be brought back to the School Committee at the next meeting

c. School handbooks

= three school handbooks provided to the Schoo! Committee. The Brown School, The Veteran’s Middle School and
the High School. No major changes were made.

= Opened up for Questions about Handbooks

* Questions surrounding the Homework Policy were raised and how it was outlined in the handbooks

= Jt was requested that it be as clear as possible for the students and parents to be able to understand the
requirements

A roll call vote was taken, and it passed 4-0.

Ms. Fox-Yes, Ms, Taylor-Yes, Mr. Ota-Yes, Ms. Taylor-Yes
Ms. Schaeffher abstained from the vote

d. Retreat / workshop discussion

* Retreat on communication for School Committee has been proposed
=» A request was made that they wait until the new Superintendent is in place before taking this retreat

e, Subcommittee and Liaison Updates and discussion
Finance Meeting Update

« Wrapped up FY22/23

" Higher savings in Unemployment

« Due to identifying positions that would be cut if the override didn’t pass which led to employees seeking
employment elsewhere prior to the start of the school year

--- page break ---

Out of District Placement Goal was to max out the circuit breaker rollover and this year we were able to hit that
goal and obtain the max rollover

Starting the timeline for FY25 planning

Meeting with Town scheduled to begin the process

Asking for a mid-October date for the town to project their revenues for next fiscal year

Facilities Meeting Update

Update provided on the facilities work over the summer

Village Security Cameras updated

Card access updated with the High School elevators

New Fire Alarm system at the High School

Continuing to computerize the HVAC System

Updated Security Cameras (95% Complete)

Vets D Wing Access Panel found to be a structural issue, repair being expedited

High School roof repair process started, next steps for PV discussed

Brown School roof leaking which is currently being repaired. Once the roof is fixed we will be ready to go with
PV for Brown as well.

Trying to bring composting to all buildings

Talked about Coffin school and possible next steps

A list was requested from the Facilities Sub Comunittee of the current properties that we own but are not using
The Superintendent Safety Meeting will be held on 09/27/23

The CPAC is having their board meeting 09/27/23 at 7:00PM

Metco Leadership retreat for Superintendent’s, Assistant Superintendent’s and Schoo! Committee Members

V. Closing Business

a. New Business- School Committee Announcements and Requests

b.

Operating protocols and procedures as it relates to communication going through the School Committee Chair
This allows a streamlined process and a more efficient process

Sarah requested moving forward that all requests and questions go to her first and she will ensure that it is
answered

Correspondence

Nothing to share

Meeting is adjourned at 8:30PM by School Committee Chair Ms. Fox
