                            Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                          Thursday April 27, 2023
                                                  6:00pm
     https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/j/95979176434?pwd=alU0SnJPcllnb3RsRDY5LzJmL3BSdz09

Members Present:        Sarah Fox, Sarah Gold, Thomas Mathers, Alison Taylor and Meagan Taylor

Also Present:           John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                        Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations
                        Michele Carlson, High School Assistant Principal
                        Julia Ferreira, Middle School Assistant Principal

I.      Initial Business
        a. Call to Order
             Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 6:02pm

            Motion and vote to meet in Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws chapter
            30A, section 21(a) for the following purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective
            bargaining with the Marblehead Education Association MEA Unit A members if an open meeting
            may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the School Committee and the chair so
            declares.

            A roll call vote was taken and the motion passed 4-0. Committee member, Ms. Meagan Taylor
            arrived to the meeting late and was not present for the roll call vote.

            Executive Session-6:03pm
            Meeting in Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A, section 21(a)
            for purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the Marblehead
            Education Association MEA, specifically Unit A members regarding sick days with the intent to
            return to open session by 7:00pm.

           The Executive Session adjourned at 6:25pm and a recess was called until the open meeting was
           called to order at 7:00pm.
        b. State of the District
           Superintendent Buckey shared that Veteran’s Middle School teacher Joan Miller will be filling the
           role of Interim Assistant Principal for the 2023-2024 school year.
           He shared data on the college application trends noting the following:
           -out of 228 students, 2,088 applications were sent
           -the names of the colleges and universities students had already been accepted to

            An update was provided on a new software that would support the plan for redistricting while also
            serving as a comprehensive platform for student enrollment and human resources related data

           A discussion pertaining to the use of ARPA funds took place. During the discussion, it was
           explained that $157K worth of budgeted priorities has been allocated to ARPA funds.
        c. Commendations
           • Ms. Fox commended Samantha Rosato for advocating for education
           • Ms. Alison Taylor commended the Brown School for the STEAM Fair they held
        d. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
           • The Music Department took a trip to Disney to perform over April break
           • The French Department took a trip to France over April break
           • Prom tickets are on sale. The Junior Prom will be ay Danversport on May 12th and the Senior
               Prom will be on June 2nd at the House of Blues
           • The Acapella Spring Concert will be May 5th at the high school auditorium
           • The Legally Blonde musical is scheduled for May 28th through the 30th
           • AP exams begin on May 1st and will go through May 12th. The library will be closed during
             exams
          • The National Honor Society will be hosting a blood drive on May 19th
       e. Public Comment
          None

II.    Consent Action and Agenda Items
       a. Approval of Minutes 4/6/2023
       b. Schedule of Bills
          Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the minutes from April 6, 2023 and to approve the schedule
          of bills totaling $483,930.68.

           A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes 5-0.
           Ms. Gold, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Meagan Taylor, Mr. Mathers and Ms. Fox-all yes.

III.   Superintendent Report
       a. Technology Strategic Plan Presentation-Director of Technology, Stephen Kwiatek
          Director Kwiatek provided an overview on the five-year technology plan. The overview focused on
          infrastructure updates, curriculum-related improvements, professional development and budget
          impacts.

           Further discussion on one time versus recurring costs took place.

          Superintendent Buckey commended Director Kwiatek for moving the technology needs of the
          district forward with a level service budget.
       b. District Updates
          No additional updates were shared.

IV.    School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
       a. Review of Policies
          i. Review of new policy-jlcda-Administering Naloxone
          Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve policy jlcda. The motion was moved by Mr. Mathers and
          seconded by Ms. A. Taylor. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passed 5-0.

          ii. Ms. Gold, Ms. A. Taylor, Ms. M. Taylor, Mr. Mathers and Ms. Fox-all yes.
          Review of policy bedh-public comment at school committee meetings
          Ms. Gold explained that the public comment policy was added for review as a recommendation to
          revise per the Massachusetts Association of School Committee. It was also mentioned that the
          Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court recently reviewed a case pertaining to an open meeting
          violation in regard to public comment which provided an opportunity to revisit the policy in
          consideration of necessary edits. After discussion, it was decided that the public comment policy
          will be further reviewed for additional minor revisions.
       b. Park and Recreation-Memorandum of Understanding
          Superintendent Buckey explained that revisions to the MOU were made by the Park and Rec board
          after a joint meeting to address revisions was held. He noted the importance of bringing the revised
          version to the committee prior to voting the memorandum. Ms. Fox further explained that the
          recommendation to schedule a joint meeting to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding was
          discussed during a recent meeting with Park and Rec. After discussion, it was decided that Sarah
          Fox and Sarah Gold will represent the school committee during joint meetings with Park and Rec.
       c. Superintendent Evaluation
          Ms. Fox requested that the Superintendent’s self-evaluation be received by the committee on May
          20th so there will be a few weeks to review it prior to compiling the results during a workshop in
          the beginning of June.
       d. Coffin School-Building and Property Discussion
          Ms. Fox recommended not taking any action on the Coffin School until a new committee is in place
          at the end of June. Ms. Taylor requested that the Coffin School be discussed at the summer retreat.
          It was agreed that the school needs to be addressed with the Town during the next fiscal year as it
          remains a concern.
       e. METCO Inc Headquarters Meeting-Planning and Discussion
          Ms. Fox mentioned that she was in the process of coordinating with the METCO Director, the
          Town Clerk and MASC for planning and posting guidelines pertaining to holding a meeting outside
          of Marblehead.
       f. FY24 Budget Planning and Discussion
          Town meeting is scheduled for Monday and Tuesday night with the potential for a third night. Due
          to the number of meetings scheduled for that week, it was decided that the school committee
          meeting scheduled for that Thursday would be canceled.
       g. Subcommittee and Liaisons Updates
          Ms. Meagan Taylor reminded the committee that the Unsung Hero event will be held on June 14th
          in person at the Landing.

V.     Closing Business
       a. New Business
          None
       b. Correspondence
          None
       c. Adjournment
          Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 8:08pm

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved May 18, 2023
