Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Thursday September 07, 2023

7:00PM
Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner, Alison Taylor. Meagan Taylor
Also Present: Michelle Cresta-Acting Superintendent, Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent

I. Initial Business

a. Call to Order

Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:01PM

b. Commendations

=» Mr, Ota Commends the building secretaries and the Custodians for their hard work over the
summet

« Ms. Alison Taylor wants to commend all of our principals on the their first days of school

» Ms. Meagan Taylor commended the parents students and staff for their part in the successful first
days of school

c. Public Comment

«Ms. Mary McCarriston requested an apology from Ms. Fox for a comment made prior to a School
Committee Meeting referring to “stakeholders” as “lunatics”

» Dan Albert-Bike shoulders for Glover to provide a safe route to school for children

« Alex Chrisak-Is in support of widening the shoulders. He shares his concerns regarding the
intersection at Glover where people turning right coming off of Maple Street onto Tedesco Street

« Resident shared concerns about the texts and emails released and published in the local papers.
She indicated that the texts and emails contained personal information of students and parents of
students.

«Jen Jackson-Co-Chair of the Marblehead Special Education Parent Advisory Council-Read an
email sent to Ms. Fox regarding the Interim Superintendent Search. The email was sent to request
participation in the Interim Superintendent Search Committee.

» Alex Shube- Echoed what Dan Albert said regarding needing the School Committee’s support
surrounding the bike shoulders for Glover. She pointed out that the Traffic Studies have been
done.

d, Student Representative-Kat Piper

» First week of classes

« Freshmen arrived at 7:45AM and grades 10-12 arrived at 11:00AM on the first day of school

« Students attended grade meetings, took class pictures and then they ran through an abbreviated
schedule

« They offered helpful resources to new students and went over updated policies


--- page break ---

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
a. Interim Superintendent Search Discussion (vote)

» Interim Superintendent Screening Committee will be comprised of two school committee
members, one administrator, a Unit A Staff member and one parent

= Michelle Cresta will be the Administrator

» Alison Carey will be the Staff Representative

« {2 parents sent in letters of interest for the parent position on the committee

» Sarah Fox nominated Sarah Magazine for the parent position on the committee

Sarah Fox asks for a Motion to appoint Sarah Magazine as the parent representative to the Interim
Superintendent Screening Committee

The motion is moved by Brian Ota and Seconded by Alison Taylor
Opened up for Discussion
» Meagan Taylor asks for more information as to how this candidate was chosen
Ms. Fox, Ms. Alison Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Shaeffner-All Yes
Ms. Meagan Taylor abstained from the vote
A roll vote was taken and the motion passes 3-0 with one abstention

Meagan Taylor makes a motion to add a SEPAC (Special Education Parent Advisory Council.
Member) to the Interim Superintendent Search Committee

The motion was not seconded
The motion dies

b. ARPA (American Rescue Plan Act) discussion

« Alison Taylor obtained the most recent set of ARPA requests

« Ms, Taylors goal is to advocate for out students, our community and also to advocate for the
process to be more transparent

«Ms. Taylor will be meeting with Aarom Noonan an Thatcher, the Town Administrator, to walk
through what has been done so far and what these funds have been allocated to

c. School Handbooks (vote)

» Three handbooks have been submitted to the School Committee

»  Veterens Middle School, the Elementary School which covers Glover School, Brown School, and
Village School, and the last one is the High School

« A brief outline of what the changes are for each handbook has been given to the Committee

«Sarah Fox opens it up for questions and discussion

« Jen Shaeffher indicates that she will be abstaining from the vote today because she has not had



--- page break ---

time to read through all school handbooks

» Michele Carlson is asked by Ms. Fox to provide a bit more information about the High Schools
Diversion Program, I Decide, and the update made to the Handbook in regards to Vaping

“Ms. Fox addresses the dress code in the High School Handbook with Ms. Carlson

« Alison Taylor had some questions regarding the Bullying policy and specific wording in the
policy

= The School Committee will be reviewing handbooks in Spring 2024 to ensure that they are ready
to go for the start of the School Year

d. Subcomittee and Liaison Updates

« Safety Committee- Brian Ota
oO Meeting will be scheduled within the next two weeks
=» SEPAC-Meagan Taylor
o First District meeting 09/08 at 12:00PM
= Policy- Jennifer Shaeffner and Alison Taylor
© Meeting will be scheduled before the end of September
" Facilities Committee and Finance Committee-Sarah Fox
© There will be two high level finance meetings each year to budget plan
© In the process of scheduling the first Finance Committee meeting
© In the process of scheduling the first Facilities Committee meeting

V. Closing Business

a, New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests
=» None

b. Correspondence

« Correspondence received regarding the pieces of information released that was not redacted was
acknowledged by Alison Taylor

Meeting is adjourned at 8:26PM by School Committee Chair Ms, Fox

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
