                  Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                         Marblehead High School Auditorium
                                   2 Humphrey St.
                                Tuesday March 21, 2023
                                       7:00pm

                                   https://marbleheadschools-
       org.zoom.us/j/97548851270?pwd=UEx3NUxkRTdJVmNBQWl3N0hYaE9nQT09

      Members Present:       Sarah Fox, Sarah Gold, Thomas Mathers, Alison Taylor

      Members Absent:        Meaghan Taylor

      Also Present :         John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                             Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                             Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent for Finance and
                             Operations

I.         Initial Business
           a. Call to Order
                Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00pm
II.        Statement from the Chair
           Ms. Fox opened the meeting thanking the leadership team and Superintendents for their
           work putting together the FY24 budget. She explained that Superintendent Buckey will
           share a presentation with questions and comments from the community and committee to
           follow.
III.       Budget Public Hearing of Proposed Budget Options for FY24
           Superintendent Buckey opened his presentation focusing on how the District is flourishing
           and continues to flourish during challenging times. A slide celebrating Marblehead
           Education data was shared.

           Superintendent Buckey mentioned the goal for the FY24 budget and outlined the steps
           taken to create the budget. Expenses versus revenues was explained and it was noted
           that expenses were outpacing revenues town-wide. Chapter 70 funding, student
           enrollment and staffing levels were further explained. A slide was displayed to compare
           the budget figures for the level service and reduced services budgets presented. The
           level services budget in the amount of $45, 971,790 supports a budget increase of
           4.52% and the Reduced service budget in the amount of $44, 782,273 supports a budget
           increase of 1.82%.

           Superintendent Buckey explained the following:
           Level Services Budget
           • Will require a proposition 2 ½ override with the Town
           • Will fund all contractual payroll obligations
           • 3 of 7 eliminated positions will be repurposed for an HR Generalist, School
              Counselor and STEAM Teacher
           • Will fund freshman sports and not fund requests in the aspirational budget
           Reduced Service Budget
           • Will not require a proposition 2 ½
       •   Will eliminate 33 positions and reduce/reallocate 4 additional positions
       •   Will increase funding for unemployment costs
       •   Will fund a portion of utility costs and rely on $92k from building rental revolving
           fund

       The impact of a reduced services budget per each building and department was
       outlined and further information pertaining to the use of American Rescue Program Act
       ARPA funds and rolling stock was presented.
Public Comment
Marblehead education association co-presidents, Sally Shevory and Jonathan Heller read a
prepared statement in support of needing to stand together to fund a budget that supports the
needs of the students. They spoke in favor of a budget that attracts and retains staff based on
competitive salaries and an exemplary education. It was requested that the prepared statement
be included in the record of finalized minutes.

Student Grace Wolverton spoke against eliminating the librarian position at the Veterans Middle
School noting the positon as “essential” and how removing it would take away from students.

Dan Albert spoke in favor of eliminating central administration positions prior to laying off
teachers. He also suggested consolidating administrative positions with neighboring schools.

Becky Suciu inquired a b o u t the percent of the ARPA funds the Town receives and the percent
allocated to the schools.

It was mentioned that the schools represent 50% of the Town budget but not 50% of the ARPA
funds are allocated to the schools.

Ms. Fox estimated that 7.8% of ARPA funds are currently received by the schools and if the
request for FY24 ARPA funding requests are approved, that number will be closer to 14%.

Catherine Martin spoke in favor of the level service budget whereas that budget is already short
in meeting the needs of students. She noted her support of the education representatives joint
statement. She also spoke in favor of a Strategic Plan that spans multiple years to help support an
override request.

Kim Day inquired about the next steps regarding voting one budget after the two were presented.

After an inquiry regarding the special education staff numbers, Ms. Cresta explained that more
accurate reporting figures assisted with determining staff placement. She further explained that
staff were reassigned based on need and that allocations were correct.

Ms. Fox explained the process for voting the budget sharing that the school committee would
vote the budget the following week and the budget would need to pass at Town meeting. Ms.
Fox encouraged community participation mentioning that voting takes place in person.
David Wedel inquired about the deliberation process at Town meeting.
Staff member Samantha Rosato spoke against eliminating positions such as the Veterans School
librarian mentioning that each position is important and valued. She also spoke in favor of
increasing salaries for paraprofessional contracts noting that they are paid under minimum
wage.

Superintendent Buckey spoke of longer-term planning with Town that would include a curriculum
review cycle for example so need could be identified early so taxpayers have a better understanding
of the planning ahead.

Committee member, Ms. Gold thanked the leadership team for moving the District forward to
identify costs and needs.

Cindy Schieffer highlighted the collaboration going on between the schools and spoke in favor
of growing in the same direction.

Becky Suciu inquired about the impact to staffing during the current school year and spoke in
favor of rallying the Town to vote for a level service budget.

Superintendent Buckey explained that nonrenewal letters needed to be sent by April 15th but that
notice could not be provided until after the election.

Catherine Martin spoke in favor of a more long- r a n g e Strategic Plan and questioned where that
planning was during the planning for the previous budgeting year.

Ms. Gold pointed out that last year’s budget ask was reflective of the Strategic Plan the
subcommittee developed, the committee that Ms. Martin’s husband was a member of. She also
noted that other Districts had similar plans.

Superintendent Buckey explained that a new Strategic Plan would not be created. He spoke in
favor of working to further develop the existing plan to more specifically identify a longer- term
road map.

Committee member Mathers spoke in favor of the collaboration taking place given the current
budgeting situation.

Chairman Fox spoke in favor of Article 31 and funding a fiscally responsible budget. She
reminded the community that the committee would vote the budget the following Monday at 6pm
before the Fincom meeting. She also encouraged community members to reach out so no
misinformation was being presented.
IV.     Closing Business
         a. Adjournment
            Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 8:11pm.

  Respectfully Submitted,
  Lisa Dimier, Secretary
  Marblehead School Committee

  Approved April 6, 2023
