                           Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                          Thursday June 1, 2023
                                         Marblehead High School
                                                  Library
                                                  7:00pm
                                        https://marbleheadschools-
             org.zoom.us/j/94278091492?pwd=ZlJXTHdWT1VXMmNWandhK3h1K1BRQT09


     Members Present:       Sarah Fox, Sarah Gold, Thomas Mathers, Alison Taylor and Meagan Taylor

     Also Present:          John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                            Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                            Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations
                            Gina Hart, High School Social Worker

I.   Initial Business
     a. Call to Order
         Chairperson Fox called the meeting to order at 7:01pm
     b. State of the District
         i. Achievement Update
              Superintendent Buckey shared comparison data pertaining to grade averages for 4-year
              college prep 1 and 2 courses. The drop in achievement per each grade level per CP2 subject
              area was noted.
         ii. Enrollment and Class Size Update
              Superintendent Buckey shared an update on enrollment numbers. He noted the current
              enrollment of all students is 2,563 with a projected 23-24 school year enrollment of similar.
              He further mentioned the decrease in staffing head counts in relation to steady enrollment
              across the years. Enrollment data by school and class was also shared. Enrollment data is
              updated every Monday morning and will become publicly available data going forward.

            Superintendent Buckey reminded the community of the list of position cuts that will be
            made should the override vote not pass.

             A discussion on the discrepancy of enrollment data shared versus what is listed on the DESE
             website took place. It was mentioned that the numbers on the state website are reflective of
             specific reporting periods. For example, effective as of October 1st.
        iii. Records Request Update
             At the request of committee member Mathers, Superintendent Buckey provided an update
             on school year records requests. Committee member Mathers explained the request was
             made to better understand community concerns raised pertaining to transparency. Per
             request, Superintendent Buckey included: the date the request came in, who the request was
             made by, the subject of the request and the date the summarized response was sent. He
             further outlined the number of single requests versus the number of multiple requests
             received.

            Committee member Mathers voiced his concerns related to the legal expenses incurred. He
            inquired what the district could do better to not incur unnecessary expenses pertaining to
            records requests. Further discussion about the staffing and time consideration to respond to
            records requests took place. Chairperson Fox and committee member Alison Taylor voiced
            their concerns with seemingly shaming community members seeking transparency.
      iv. Legal Update
          At the request of committee member Mathers, Superintendent Buckey noted that there were
          two Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination Complaints, MCAD. Per the advice
          of legal counsel, it was recommended that an Executive Session be scheduled should there
          be a request for further updates pertaining to the two cases.
  c. Commendations
      Superintendent Buckey recognized Assistant Superintendent Murphy and her list of
      accomplishments she brought to the district during the three short years she was in Marblehead.
      It was mentioned that she implemented a new Mathematics and English Language Arts
      curriculum, aligned elementary school schedules and developed a new standards-based report
      card. He commended her work ethic and wished her well in her new role as Superintendent for
      the Dedham Public Schools.
  d. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
      • Ms. Gold gifted Mr. Colon a gavel in appreciation of his serving as the student
          representative for the school committee.
      • Class Elections took place on May 22nd and 24th with the final elections taking place the
          following day
      • The final Band and Orchestra performances will be on May 22nd. Chorus is scheduled for
          May 25th
      • The GSA Club held their Day of Silence on May 24th
      • Art Exhibition will be on display until May 31st at Abbot Hall
      • The last day for Seniors and the display for Senior Projects is on June 2nd
      • The red carpet for Senior Prom will begin at 4:30 on June 6th
      • Senior Field Day will be on June 8th. Cap and gowns will be picked up and a yearbook
          signing is scheduled.
      • Graduation is scheduled for June 9th on Piper Field
      • A list of dates for the honors society inductions was shared
      • Freshman will take Biology MCAS on June 7th and 8th
      • A sports update was provided
      • The last day of school will be June 23rd
  d. Public Comment
      None

II. Consent Action and Agenda Items
    a. Interview and Vote of School Nurse
       Chairperson Fox asked for a motion to hire Julie Berman BSN as a school nurse pending DESE
       certification. The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Mr. Mathers. The motion
       pass-5-0.
    b. Approval to Declare High School Science Department Items as Surplus
    c. Approval for 2023-2024 School Year Out of State Field Trips-High School
    d. Schedule of Bills
    e. FY24 Clerk’s Agreement
    f. Approval of Minutes
       5/18/2023
       Chairperson Fox asked for a motion to approve all remaining consent action and agenda items to
       include high school surplus items, out of state high school field trips for the 2023-2024 school
       year, the schedule of bills totaling $238,428.67 and the FY24 clerk’s agreement. It was noted
       that the approval of minutes from May 18th would be postponed until the next regularly
       scheduled meeting. The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor.
       The motion pass-5-0.
III.   Superintendent Report
       a. Youth Behavior at Risk Survey Presentation- Gina Hart
          Social Worker, Ms. Gina Hart shared a presentation of data related to the Youth Behavior at
          Risk Survey students fill out. She shared the purpose of the survey is to help inform which
          risks factors make the Marblehead community more vulnerable towards substance abuse and
          mental health issues so programming can be structured to better support students in need.
          Demographics were shared and comparison data from previous year at both the school and
          state level was referenced.

          After the presentation committee members thanked Ms. Hart for the comprehensive review
          and shared their suggestions including the following:
          increasing the amount of information shared with parents and guardians throughout the year
          improving how the large amount of data could be presented in the most consumable way
          including outreach information at the end of the survey in support of currently struggling
          students
       b. District Updates
          i. Staffing Update
              Superintendent Buckey shared that Dan Richards has been hired to fill the Assistant
              Principal position at high school. He has most recently served as the Dean of Students in
              the Manchester Essex school district. He has also served as Principal in both the
              Belmont and Georgetown school districts.

             It was mentioned that the Village School will be holding interviews the following
             Tuesday for the Assistant Principal position, which received over thirty interested
             applicants.

             Assistant Superintendent Cresta shared that Ms. Kelley Ferretti will join the
             administrative team in the restructured HR Director role as the HR Manager. She will
             begin the following Monday.

IV.    School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
       a. Massachusetts Association of School Committees MASC Policy Revision
          Recommendations:
          BDFA-School Advisory Councils-Revision
          BDFA-E3 Conduct of School Advisory Council Business-RESCIND
          BDFA-E-School Improvement Plan-Revision /New Name
          BDFA-E1 School Improvement Plan-RESCIND
          BDFA-E2 Submission and Approval of the School Improvement Plan-RESCIND
          CHA_CHC-Development and Dissemination of Procedures-Revision/New Name
          CHA Development of Procedures-RESCIND
          CHC Procedures Dissemination-RESCIND

          Ms. Gold noted the listed policies were being discussed for a third time. She referenced
          MGL regarding voting school improvement plans in reference to a question that came up in
          the previous meeting pertaining to school committee purview in relation to the approval of
          the plans. She further discussed endorsing the plans prior to final approval by the
          Superintendent.

          After discussion, Ms. Gold asked for a motion to rescind policies BDFA-E1, BDFA-E2,
          BDFA-E3, CHA and CHC.
            The motion was moved by Ms. Megan Taylor and seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor. The
            motion pass-5-0.

            Ms. Gold asked for a motion to approve policies BDFA, BDFA-E and CHA_CHC.

             The motion was moved by Ms. Megan Taylor and seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor. The
             motion pass-5-0.
         b. FY24 Budget Planning and Discussion
            Accounting of All Employee Benefits
            Mr. Mathers explained the agenda item was requested by him to inquire about ways in
            which the Town and school department could more efficiently track benefits related
            employee costs to maintain adjustments to budgeting as staffing changes occur throughout
            the year.

            Assistant Superintendent Cresta explained that the schools would require an additional
            position to take on the management of benefits as the benefits were currently processed
            through the Town.
         c. Superintendent Evaluation-Workshop Date
            Chairperson Fox noted the workshop is anticipated to take place on Tuesday June 6th at
            7:30pm and the agenda will be posted the following morning.
         d. Subcommittee and Liaisons Updates
             • The Cultural Feast was a successful event and there is video the students created of the
                 event
             • The budget focused SEPAC information session went well and positive feedback was
                 received
             • The Unsung Hero nominations should be submitted by the following day, June 2nd.

V.       Closing Business
         a. New Business
            None
         b. Correspondence
            None
         c. Adjournment
            Chairperson Fox adjourned the meeting at 8:28pm.


     Respectfully Submitted,
     Lisa Dimier, Secretary
     Marblehead School Committee

     Approved June 15, 2023
