                    Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                    Budget Workshop
                                  Monday January 30, 2023
                                         6:00pm
                                   High School Library

                                    Zoom Recording ID
                                https://marbleheadschools-
        org.zoom.us/j/93933868025?pwd=MmlIVGpVdVlnTFVUSXFScXVlRmFldz09

       Members Present:       Sarah Fox, Sarah Gold, Tom Mathers, Alison Taylor and
                              Meagan Taylor
       Remote Participants:

       Also:                 Athletics Director, Greg Ceglarski
                             Technology Director, Stephen Kwiatek
                             Facilities Director, Todd Bloodgood
                             Student Services Director, Paula Donnelley
                             Assistant Superintendent, Nan Murphy
                             Superintendent, John Buckey
                             High School Principal, Daniel Bauer
                             Veterans Middle School Principal, Matthew Fox
                             Village School Principal, Amanda Murphy
                             Glover School Principal, Hope Doran
                             Brown School Principal, Mary Maxfield
Call to Order
Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:01pm.
2023-2024sy Calendar
Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the 2023-2024 school year calendar as presented by the
Superintendent. The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor. The
motion passes,5-0.
Schedule of Bills
Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the schedule for bills totaling $876,042.09. The motion
was moved Mr. Mathers and seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor. The motion passes,5-0.
Budget Workshop Presentations
Superintendent Buckey opened the workshop portion of the meeting giving an overview of the
budget work that has already been completed in consideration of the FY24 budget planning
process. It was mentioned that stakeholder input was considered through survey data. Regularly
scheduled meetings held with the Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations provided
for ongoing budget review and assisted the leadership team with determining budget priorities.
The planning ahead will include many subcommittee meetings and continued collaboration with
the Town to confirm available funds and refine the budget in response to state funding, enrollment
and staffing adjustments.
Superintendent Buckey further explained that the District would require a 5.43% increase in
budgeting for FY24 to meet the level service operating needs of the previous year. The increase
would cover contractual obligations, utilities costs and account for a 14% state increase in special
education private school tuition rates.
Athletics Department-Greg Ceglarski
Athletics Director, Mr. Ceglarski presented an overview of the athletics department budget. New
requests account for increases in uniform replacement costs and athletic trainer services. The
athletics budget presented represents a total department budget increase of over $80K.
Technology Department-Stephen Kwiatek
Technology Director, Mr. Kwiatek presented an overview of the technology department budget.
New requests account for increases in computer and software replacement, smart panels, security,
contracted services, professional development training and one staffing request. The technology
budget presented represents a total department budget increase of over $130K.
Facilities Department-Todd Bloodgood
Facilities Director, Mr. Bloodgood presented an overview of the facilities department budget. New
requests account for increases in maintenance equipment needs and staffing requests. A list of
capital maintenance requests was shared which total over $740,00K. The facilities budget
presented represents a total department budget increase of over $360K.

Student Services Department-Paula Donnelly
Student Service Director, Ms. Donnelly presented an overview of the student services department
budget. New requests account for increases in out of district related tuition and transportation costs,
professional development and staffing requests. An overview of the over $780K received in grant
allocations from the Individual Disabilities Education Act grant, IDEA was mentioned. The
student services budget presented represents a total department budget increase of over $290K.
Office of Teaching and Learning-Nan Murphy
Assistant Superintendent, Ms. Nan Murphy presented an overview of the teaching and learning
department budget. New requests focused on instructional materials for literacy and math, K-8
assessment tools, STEAM materials and professional development related costs. An overview of
the over $270K received in grant allocations was shared. The teaching and learning budget
presented represents a total department budget increase of over $300k
Central Office-Superintendent John J. Buckey
Superintendent Buckey presented an overview of the central administration budget. New requests
focused on a budget that supports a full day of tuition-free kindergarten, an increase in substitute
teacher funding, meeting mid-year contractual salary adjustments and a request for a human
resources generalist.
High School-Dan Bauer
High School Principal, Mr. Bauer presented an overview of the high school budget. Enrollment
numbers were shared and new requests focused on repurposing positions and new staffing requests
including a college and career assistant and a curriculum director. New capital requests for
equipment and furniture for visual arts and woodshop were incorporated into the presentation
along with requests for increases pertaining to audio/visual needs, science and physical education
related items, graduation, and professional development. The high school budget presented
represents a total building budget increase of about $32k.
Veterans Middle School-Matthew Fox
Middle School Principal, Mr. Fox presented an overview of the middle school budget. Enrollment
numbers were shared and new requests focused on a repurposed position and new staffing requests
including an equity coach and a data intervention coach. New requests for curriculum related
supplies for fine art, social studies and language arts were incorporated into the presentation along
with requests for increases pertaining to replacement textbooks for history and science and
physical education materials. The middle school budget presented represents a total building
budget increase of about $60k.
Village School-Amanda Murphy
Village School Principal, Ms. Murphy presented an overview of the Village School budget.
Enrollment numbers were shared and new requests focused on staffing for permanent substitutes,
an additional math tutor, a STEAM teacher, a part time equity coach and a data intervention coach.
New requests for instructional software and music and science supplies were incorporated into the
presentation along with requests for increases pertaining to professional development. The Village
School budget presented represents a total building budget increase of about $49k.
Glover School-Hope Doran
Glover School Principal, Ms. Doran presented an overview of the Glover School budget.
Enrollment numbers were shared and new requests focused on staffing for a STEAM teacher,
behavioral coach, a part time equity coach and a permanent substitute to provide coverage for staff
absences and coverage during IEP meetings. New requests for instructional reading software and
makerspace start up related supplies were incorporated into the presentation along with requests
for increases pertaining to professional development for math facilitators and diversity, equity and
inclusion consultation. The Glover School budget presented represents a total building budget
increase of about $22k.
Brown School-Mary Maxfield
Brown School Principal, Ms. Maxfield presented an overview of the Brown School budget.
Enrollment numbers were shared and new requests focused on staffing for a STEAM teacher,
behavioral coach, a part time equity coach and a permanent substitute to provide coverage for staff
absences and coverage during IEP meetings. New requests for instructional software and supplies
to meet the needs of the student population were incorporated into the presentation along with
requests for increases pertaining to professional development. The Brown School budget presented
represents a total building budget increase of about $26k.
During each presentation committee members took turns asking a series of questions pertaining to
the specific budget requests per each department and/or building.
Prior to adjourning, Ms. Fox mentioned the importance of planning for a budget which would
include the eliminating of positions should an override vote not pass and a discussion took place.
Adjournment
While Ms. Fox was adjourning the meeting at 9:27pm, a community member requested public
comment. Ms. Alison Taylor motioned to allow for public comment and Mr. Mathers seconded
the motion. The motion passes, 5-0.
Ms. Catherine Martin of W. Shore Dr. inquired about progress towards a “more complete strategic
plan” in preparation for a budget presentation to the Town.
Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 9:34pm.
Materials Included:
2023-2024sy Calendar
Schedule of Bills
Budget Presentation Slideshow

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved March 2, 2023
