                    Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                            Thursday February 16, 2023
                                      7:00pm
                          Marblehead High School- Library
                                   2 Humphrey St.

                                  Zoom Recording ID
                             : https://marbleheadschools-
     org.zoom.us/j/91808371990?pwd=aTA3d2U5eEFaMWMwcFAxcEl5OVVNQT09

Members Present:      Sarah Fox, Sarah Gold, Thomas Mathers, and Alison Taylor

Remote Participants: John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                     Meagan Taylor

Also Present :       High School Principal, Daniel Bauer
                     High School Assistant Principal, Michele Carlson
                     High School School Counselor, Christine Chaykowski
                     High School Student, Tyler Earp
                     Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                     Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations

I.     Initial Business
       a. Call to Order
           Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00pm.
       b. Commendations
           Ms. Alison Taylor commended the Brown School on their first winter concert
           Ms. Gold commended the high school students for getting through their first set of mid-
           terms in a long time
           Ms. Fox thanked the leadership team for their work with putting together budgeting
           requests that meet the needs of the students
       c. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
           • The class of 2023 recently raised $3,000 for prom and other events
           • Mid-terms took place on Jan 23rd through the 27th.
           • The 3rd Quarter began on January 30th and report cards for the 2nd Quarter were
                released on February 8th
           • The Acepella group recently competed at an international competition
           • An elective day was held at the high school on February 8th for 8th graders
           • A curriculum night was held on February 15th
           • Freshmen held fundraisers on February 8th with Chipotle and on February 14th with
                Stowaway Sweets
           • Sophomores sold semiformal tickets in February for their March semiformal dance
                scheduled for March 3rd
           • Sophomores and juniors held a Valentine’s Day donut fundraiser
           • The planning for senior project is underway
           • A Sports update was provided
       d. Public Comment
          Dr. Jess Benedetto of Bradlee Rd referenced an article she read in the Current newspaper
          pertaining to ThoughtExchange survey results focusing on transportation. She spoke
          against the data results shared.

II.    Consent Action and Agenda Items
       a. Approval of Minutes-12/15/2022 and 1/5/2023
          Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the minutes from 12/15/2022 and 1/5/2023. The
          motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms.
          The motion passes, 4-0-1.
          Ms. Gold, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Meagan Taylor, and Ms. Fox-all yes
          Mr. Mathers-abstained
       b. Bournedale 6th Grade Field Trip
          Village School Principal, Ms. Murphy provided some background information about the
          annual 6th grade Bournedale trip.

          Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the 6th grade overnight Bournedale trip on 5/23-
          5/26. The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Mr. Mathers. The motion
          passes, 5-0 all in favor.

          Ms. Gold, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Meagan Taylor, Mr. Mathers and Ms. Fox-all yes

III.   Superintendent Report
       a. Marblehead High School-Greenhouse Eagle Scout Project Update
          16-year-old junior student, Tyler Earp gave an update on the fundraising for his Eagle
          Scout Greenhouse Project sharing that he has raised about $43,000 out of a goal of
          $70,000. He shared the following additional updates:
          • The conservancy aspect will be completed over the summer
          • The greenhouse will begin to be manufactured within the next few weeks and arrive
              in August
          • An auction will take place at the Landing on March 7th
          • To learn more, visit mhsgreehouse.org
          • Donations are tax deductible and go directly to the high school parent council
              organization
          • He will return in the Spring with a construction update
       b. Metropolitan Council for Opportunity, METCO Program Update
          METCO Director, Caja Johnson provided some METCO related updates focusing on
          enrollment, staffing, events and the plan for the next school committee meeting scheduled
          at METCO headquarters. The following updates were shared:
          • Weekly recurring meetings are scheduled with administrative members, the parent
              council organizations and with other METCO staff at METCO headquarters
          • Time has been spent in other area districts shadowing fellow directors and a leadership
              retreat was recently attended at Gillette stadium
          • Enrollment numbers were shared and it was mentioned that the program planned to
              increase the METCO enrollment by about 20 students for the 2023-2024. The referrals
              in process are for 5th through 9th graders
          • A staffing update was provided, and it was mentioned that the program is looking to
              welcome a student intern for the 2023-2024 school year
          • Spaces specifically for METCO students have been setup at both the high school and
              Village Schools
         •   The Cultural Feast is scheduled for 5/19 for 6pm at the high school
         •   A middle school retreat is being planned and the high school retreat is scheduled for
             April in Norwood
         •   There will be a senior sendoff scheduled for 5/20 at 6pm.
         •   20% of proceeds from purchased METCO clothing and items will go to the program
         •   Transportation and access to extracurricular activities remain as areas to focus on for
             improvement

         Ms. Taylor requested to be the liaison for the METCO program.

         Superintendent Buckey commended Ms. Johnson on invigorating the program in less than
         the full year she has been in the position.
      c. Proposed Program of Studies Changes for the 2023-2024 school year
         High School Principal, Daniel Bauer explained that planning for the program of studies
         adjustments begins early in the fall. He shared a list of the new courses, edits to existing
         courses and noted the courses being eliminated. Assistant Principal, Ms. Carlson and
         School Counselor, Ms. Chaykowski were also in attendance.

         After some discussion pertaining to specific courses occurred, Ms. Fox asked for a motion
         to approve the proposed programs of studies for the 2023-2024sy as presented. The motion
         was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Mr. Mathers. The motion passes, 5-0 all in
         favor.

         Ms. Gold, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Meagan Taylor, Mr. Mathers and Ms. Fox-all yes
      d. District Updates
         The following updates were shared:
         Principal Search Process and Timeline for Marblehead High School
         • The first meeting will be on February 28th at 3pm at the high school
         • Committee representatives have been selected and a list of the members were named
         • The deadline to apply is the end of the following week
         • There will be one week to review applicants, select finalist and then schedule
             interviews which are anticipated to take place the week of 3/20

         Chairman Fox spoke in favor of appointing herself as a school committee representative
         on the search committee. After a discussion, it was recommended that Mr. Mathers be
         appointed to the search committee for the high school principal as he was the only member
         without students in the District. Although there was no formal vote taken, Mr. Mathers
         obliged to the will of the committee for the opportunity.

IV.   Finance Organizational Support
      Superintendent Buckey spoke about a memo he shared with the committee regarding the FY24
      potential reductions to meet preliminary Town appropriations. It was explained that he led the
      administrative team to identify areas where reductions could be made to meet a $1.8million
      increase from the FY23 budget. The potential reductions mentioned would include reductions
      across five bargaining units and total about thirty-three positions. It was mentioned that items
      such as the $110, 000 cost of the third year of the new math program was accounted for in the
      roll forward budget. He reminded the committee that the budget process is iterative and will
      most likely change.
     Topic for discussion included the process for earmarked monies for insurance from cut
     positions, unemployment related costs, savings in consideration of retirements and the student
     teacher ratio should reductions in staffing occur. Ms. Cresta did clarify that about half of the
     number of the potential list of reductions shared currently represents vacancies.

     a. Schedule of Bills
        Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the schedule of bills in the amount of $887,533.44.
        The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms. Mathers. The motion passes,
        5-0 all in favor.

        Ms. Gold, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Meagan Taylor, Mr. Mathers and Ms. Fox-all yes

V.   School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
     a. Memorandum of Understanding -Marblehead Park and Recreation
        Ms. Fox asked for a motion to look through and accept the amended version of the MOU
        between the Recreation and Parks Department and Marblehead Public Schools as
        presented. The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Mr. Mathers.

        Superintendent Buckey explained that the department would like to hold a meeting with
        the school committee so that both boards are in unanimous consent of the proposed
        changes.

        A discussion about contracting landscapers took place.

        After a discussion, Ms. Fox asked that the committee vote the MOU. The original motion
        passes, 5-0 all in favor.

        Ms. Gold, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Meagan Taylor, Mr. Mathers and Ms. Fox-all yes
     b. FY24 Budget Planning and Discussion
        The FY24 budget planning was discussed under the finance section. Ms. Fox noted the
        importance of prioritizing a list of the budget asks. She also mentioned the need for
        scheduling more budget focused meetings in the coming weeks.
     c. Subcommittee and Liaisons Updates
        i.     Facilities Subcommittee-Property List Discussion and Recommendations
               Ms. Fox went over the list of properties owned by the school. She noted that the
               Gerry school is still listed with the assessors as owned by the schools but is not. A
               conversation about the condemned Coffin School building and liability took place.
               Further discussion about holding onto certain buildings to house the older student
               population or to assist with revenue streams also took place.

                After discussion, it was decided that due to the involved process with the Town
                that is required to turn properties back over to the Town, further review of the list
                of properties would be deferred at this time.

                It was decided that Ms. Taylor would become the METCO liaison and Mr. Mathers
                would join the Policy Subcommittee with Ms. Gold.

                Ms. Fox made a motion to appoint Mr. Mathers to fill the Vice-Chair position. The
                motion was moved by Ms. Taylor and seconded by Ms. Gold.
                 When asked by a committee member if the Superintendent felt the need for a Vice-
                 Chair, Dr. Buckey noted the importance of good governance and working
                 collaboratively which a backup Chairperson would support.

                 The motion passes, 4-1 all in favor. Ms. Gold, Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Meagan
                 Taylor, and Ms. Fox all yes. Mr. Mathers-no.


VI.   Closing Business
      a. New Business
         Mr. Mathers will be the representative on the search committee for the high school
         principal.
         It was mentioned that Fincom pushed their hearing out until April 11th but that the school
         would need to hold their budget hearing three weeks prior to that. Ms. Fox recommended
         working offline to coordinate for the last week in March.
      b. Correspondence
         Ms. Fox mentioned a letter sent from a community member to the administration office
         that the Superintendent’s Assistant will add to the drive for review.
      c. Adjournment
         Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 8:50pm


Materials Included:
Memorandum-6th Grade Bournedale Field Trip
Greenhouse Project Presentation
Memorandum-METCO Program Updates
Program of Studies Presentation
High School Principal Search Timeline
Schedule of Bills
Memorandum of Understanding-Park and Recreation
Memorandum-FY24 Potential Reductions
School Owned Properties List

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved March 16, 2023
