Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Thursday December 7, 2023
7:00PM

Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner , Alison Taylor. Meaghan Taylor
Also Present: Dr. Theresa McGuinnes-Interim Superintendent, Michelle Cresta-Assistant

Superintendent of Finance, Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and
Learning, Dr. Jane Tremblay-Massachusetts Association of School Committees

I. Initial Business

a, Call to Order

Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:01PM

b. Commendations

« Sarah Fox wants to commend the entire Marblehead Community on getting through a very
difficult week

c. Public Comment
=" Melanie Andrews-13 Tucker Street Marblehead

oO She begins by reading an excerpt from a website by the American Library Association
regarding banning certain books

© Melanie goes on to explain that her son was given a banned book assignment and was
sent home with a permission slip for her to sign so that he was able to read the book

© She looked up the book and found that the subject matter was not appropriate for her
child’s age group

© She requests that there are additional “safeguards” put in place regarding these kinds of
assignments and that the teachers do not place the “onus solely on the parents to do the
jobs of our teachers”

* Mary McCarriston-46 Pine Cliff Drive Marblehead
© Mary references the workshop meeting last week
© She states that the school committee wants the “stakeholders and the community to
believe in you but there is no transparency or accountability”

= Kristen Horton-23 Orange Street Marblehead

© Kristen is a member of the Racial Justice Taskforce in Marblehead and reads a letter that
she had submitted to the School Committee and local papers

« Virginia O’Brien-2 Gordon Road

--- page break ---

Oo

fe)

Virginia was the one who suggested that the School Committee attend a workshop for
team building purposes and was glad that they did attend a workshop

Virginia does believe that the workshops should be held with just the School Committee
members to create a “safe space” to try and figure out how to do things better going
forward

a. District Updates-Dr. Theresa McGuinness

= Dr. McGuinness begins by speaking about the events at Glover School

ie}

Dr. McGuinness goes on to state that Hope Doran, Principal of Glover School, has taken
a Medical Leave as of 12/05/23

Matt Fox, Veterans School Principal, will be the interim Glover School Principal through
Winter Break

The School Committee and Dr. McGuinness met with the Glover School parents today
There will be an immediate search for an acting Principal for the duration of Hope
Doran’s absence which is undefined at this time

Julia Ferreira will return to Veteran’s Middle School as the acting Principal while Matt
Fox is at the Glover School

Dr. McGuinness goes on to discuss the “medical emergency” at Glover School earlier in
the week

Additionally the District is “expediting an investigation into our practices due to recent
incidents involving a restraint of a general education student at the Glover School”

» Dr. Jane Tremblay-New Superintendent Induction Program

1}
oO

Jane is a retired educator from Lynnfield
Jane is a coach to new Superintendents in the Commonwealth

= FY 25 Budget Status Update-Michelle Cresta

Earlier this week the budget process was started for 2025
Budget notebooks were distributed to the Principals on 11/21/23 and are due back on
12/18/23
Budget books wil! be distributed to the School Committee and Town Officials on
01/12/24
Budget will consist of two requests, one for Level Services Budget and a Level Funded
Budget
= Level Funded-This means that the Budget will remain as it was for FY 24 and
there will need to be cuts made to keep the budget at that number
«Level Services-This means taking that same figure and “transport it to what that
same level of services with no cuts would cost next year”

Ill, Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills (vote)

Motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $345,245.08.

--- page break ---

Moved by Ms. Schaeffner, Seconded by Mr. Alison Taylor

Ms. Meaghan Taylor, Ms. Alison Taylor, Mr. Ota, Ms. Schaeffner, and Ms. Fox-All Yes
Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

b. Approval of Minutes (vote)

Motion to approve the minutes as presented for 08/18/23

Moved by Ms. Schaeffiner , Seconded by Mr. Alison Taylor

Ms. Alison Taylor, Mr. Ota, Ms. Schaeffner, and Ms. Fox-All Yes

Ms. Meaghan Taylor-Abstained

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0 with one abstention

LV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
a. Village Scoreboard Donation Request

« Mr.Gilass has asked that we postpone this discussion until after 01/01/24 when he can join the
School Committee in person to present

b. School Committee Operating Protocols (vote)
Motion to approve the School Committee protocols as presented
Moved by Ms. Schaeffner, Seconded by Mr. Alison Taylor
Opened up for Discussion
« Sarah begins by stating the School Committee have condensed our protocols from the six pages it
had become to one to two pages on advice of the MA Association of School Committees

regarding
* No other discussion

Ms. Meaghan Taylor, Ms. Alison Taylor, Mr. Ota, Ms. Schaeffner, and Ms. Fox-All Yes
Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0
c. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
» Finance Committee-Sarah Fox
© No updates other than Michelle’s update on the budget for FY 25

» Policy Committee- Jennifer Schaeffner

--- page break ---

© No Updates
= Meaghan Taylor- SEPAC and Metco Committees
o SEPAC has a meeting tomorrow 12/08/23 via Zoom

V. Closing Business
a. New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests

=“ None
b. Correspondence

= None

Motion and Vote pursuant to Massachuse/fs General Laws chapter JOA, Section 12 (a) for purpose (3), to
conduct strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining requested, and litigation threatened, in the
MEA letter dated 12/6/2023, where the Chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect
on the position of the Committee with the intent not to return to open session.

Moved by Ms. Schaeffner, Seconded by Mr. Alison Taylor
Ms. Meaghan Taylor, Ms. Alison Taylor, Mr. Ota, Ms. Schaeffner, and Ms. Fox-All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0
Executive Session

The Marblehead School Committee will be entering executive session pursuant to Massachusetts General
Laws chapter JOA, Section 12 (a)for pI Llpose (3), to conduct strategy sessions with respect to collective
bargaining requested, and litigation threatened, in the MEA letter dated 12/6/2023, where the Chair
declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect 011 the position of the Committee with the
intent not to re/um lo open session.

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

