                        Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                       Thursday May 18, 2023
                                       Marblehead High School
                                              Library
                                              7:00pm
 https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/j/97872369838?pwd=dThSY25UWTRwMklUMWlOcUFING1TZz09

Members Present:        Sarah Fox, Thomas Mathers
Remote Participation:   Alison Taylor and Meagan Taylor
Members Absent:         Sarah Gold

Also Present:           John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                        Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations

I.     Initial Business
       a. Call to Order
            Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00pm

       Public Hearing on School Choice for the 2023-2024 school year
       The hearing on school choice was called to order at 7:01pm.

       Due to a pending budget override and the potential for instability in the FY24 budget, it was the
       recommendation of Superintendent Buckey not to participate in the School Choice Program for the
       2023-2024sy. Upon further discussion, it was also recommended that the School Choice Policy,
       policy JFBB be reviewed prior to becoming a School Choice district.

       Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the Superintendent’s recommendation not to participate in
       the School Choice Program for the 2023-2024 school year. The motion was moved by Ms. Alison
       Taylor and seconded by Mr. Mathers. A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes, 4-0.

       Ms. A. Taylor, Ms. M. Taylor, Mr. Mathers and Ms. Fox-all yes.
       b. State of the District
           Superintendent Buckey provided the following updates:
           • Information on the Continuum of Services for Advanced Learners in partnership with DESE
               and Northwestern’s Center for Talent Development.
           • Student Athlete Signing Day which took place at the high school earlier that day
           • The selected new K-6th grade Literacy Program “Wit and Wisdom”
           • An announcement on the Massachusetts Association of School Superintendents
               Professional Learning Exploration Program in partnership with Educational Tours. It was
               announced that Superintendent Buckey has been selected as the Massachusetts
               representative to join superintendent leaders from around the country in the Dominican
               Republic in October of 2023 to explore trends in STEM education.
       c. Commendations
           Superintendent Buckey commended the Literacy Adoption Committee for their work with
           selecting new literacy curriculum.
       d. Student Representative-Yasen Colon
           • Mr. Colon introduced Junior, Ms. Kat Piper as the next Student Representative to take his
               place during the 2023-2024sy.
           • The Legally Blonde performance had three sold out shows and raised over $10K
           • AP Tests were taken from May 1st through May 12th
           • Acappellooza was May 5th
           • The Hate End Now Cattle Car visited the high school on May 8th and 9th provided lessons
             on the Holocaust
          • Junior prom was May 12th at Danversport
          • 10th grade MCAS were on May 16th and 17th.
          • The Junior auction will open on May 19th
          • The National Honors Society is hosting a blood drive on May 19th from 8-1pm for students
             and staff
          • The Cultural Feast will also take place on May 19th from 5-8pm
          • Class Officer elections will be taking place in the end of May and early June
          • A volleyball tournament is scheduled on May 21st in the high school field house and all
             proceeds will go to charities.
          • The annual art show reception will be on May 23rd at Abbot Hall
          • The Senior prom will be June 6th at the House of Blues in Boston
       e. Public Comment
          None

II.    Consent Action and Agenda Items
       This agenda item was taken out of order and was voted after the budget discussion portion of the
       agenda.
       a. Approval of Minutes-4/27/2023
       b. Schedule of Bills
           Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the minutes from April 27, 2023 and the schedule of bills
           totaling $ 834,799.53 as presented. The motion was moved by and seconded by. The motion
           passes, 4-0.

           Ms. A. Taylor, Ms. M. Taylor, Mr. Mathers and Ms. Fox-all yes.

III.   Superintendent Report
       a. High School Presentation-High School Principal, Daniel Bauer
          Principal Bauer provided an update on course designation levels including advanced placement,
          honors level and college prep 1 and 2 courses. An overview of the CP2 courses that have been
          eliminated and ones that will be phased out were also mentioned. It was noted that support
          strategies will be in place to assist with building a more inclusive academic learning
          environment.
       b. District Updates
          Superintendent Buckey shared that an offer has been made to a candidate to fill the assistant
          principal position at the high school. The selected candidate was one of thirty-five applicants
          and is currently serving in a Dean of Students position. The name of the candidate will be
          released once they have provided notice to their current place of employment. An offer has
          also been extended to an HR Manager with experience working in schools.

IV.    School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
       a. Policies for Revision
          Mr. Mathers explained that the policy subcommittee discussed a plan for the review cycle
          going forward. The committee has also started the process of reviewing the I policy section
          more closely as it pertains to committee governance and how the committee engages with the
          public.
          i. BEDH-public comment at school committee meetings
               Mr. Mathers asked for a motion to approve the amendments to policy BEDH-public
               comment as presented. Prior to taking a roll call vote, a conversation about limiting public
               comment to fifteen total minutes took place. After discussion, committee members agreed
               that the Chairperson could allow for more time if applicable depending upon the
               importance of topics being discussed.
           The motion passes, 4-0.
           Ms. A. Taylor, Ms. M. Taylor, Mr. Mathers and Ms. Fox-all yes.
     b. Massachusetts Association of School Committees MASC Policy Revision Recommendations:
        Mr. Mathers explained that certain policies pertaining to school advisory councils, school
        improvement plans and the development and dissemination of procedures were being
        combined per the recommendation of the Massachusetts Association of School Committees.
        Due to the combining of policies, certain policies will need to be rescinded and/or renamed.

        A conversation on the process for approving the school improvement plans took place. It was
        recommended that the school committee discuss implementing a policy to vote the final
        approval or agree to make the vote a procedural step in the process after the Superintendent
        has reviewed and approved the improvement plans.
        i. BDFA-School Advisory Councils-Revision
        ii. BDFA-E3 Conduct of School Advisory Council Business-RESCIND
        iii. BDFA-E-School Improvement Plan-Revision /New Name
        iv. BDFA-E1 School Improvement Plan-RESCIND
        v. BDFA-E2 Submission and Approval of the School Improvement Plan-RESCIND
        vi. CHA_CHC-Development and Dissemination of Procedures-Revision/New Name
        vii. CHA Development of Procedures-RESCIND
        viii. CHC Procedures Dissemination-RESCIND
     c. Superintendent Evaluation-Workshop Date
        Chairperson Fox requested that the committee send her final dates that work with their
        schedules to hold the workshop for the evaluation of the Superintendent. She mentioned she
        was looking at the week of June 5th to hold the workshop.
     d. FY24 Budget Planning and Discussion
        Chairperson Fox mentioned putting a question and answer document out for the community. It
        was also confirmed that Superintendent Buckey will be attending community engagements, for
        example the Rotary Club and PTO meetings to be available for questions.
     e. Subcommittee and Liaisons Updates
        • SEPAC will be hosting a budget focused virtual meeting with Superintendent Buckey on
              May 31st at 7pm
        • Nominations for the Unsung Hero Awards need to be in by June 2nd but will no longer be a
              live event
        i. Memorandum of Understanding-Parks and Recreation
              Chairperson Fox asked for a motion to approve the updated memorandum of
              understanding between the School Committee and Park and Rec. The motion was moved
              by Mr. Mathers and seconded by Alison Taylor.

            Superintendent Buckey highlighted the collaborative efforts made amongst two
            organizations with not enough resources to support all the needs of each organization.

            The motion passes, 4-0.
            Ms. A. Taylor, Ms. M. Taylor, Mr. Mathers and Ms. Fox-all yes.

            Ms. Fox shared updates from a recent Park and Rec meeting she attended. An update on a
            plan for fundraising for turf fields was mentioned.

V.   Closing Business
     a. New Business
         None
     b. Correspondence
          Information from Park and Rec regarding the recommended hours of use of the pickleball
          courts will be shared and addressed at the next meeting.
       c. Adjournment
          Chairperson Fox adjourned the meeting at 8:14pm

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved June 15, 2023
