                       Record of the Marblehead School Committee Workshop
                                         Tuesday June 6, 2023
                                      Marblehead High School
                                      Library Conference Room
                                               7:30pm
 https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/j/92336016222?pwd=WGVCTHNJRk5FdUQrZDhzcUtUU2dUQT09

      Members Present:         Sarah Fox, Sarah Gold, Thomas Mathers, Alison Taylor and Meagan
                               Taylor

I.    Call to Order
      Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:32pm. It was mentioned that committee member
      Gold was expected to arrive late.

II.   Workshop to Compile Superintendent Evaluation
      Ms. Gold arrived in time for the review process to begin. Committee members began the
      review process by sharing their individual ratings per each standard and goal area. The
      average was then discussed and agreed upon and Secretary Alison Taylor compiled the
      totals and notes to be incorporated into the final summative evaluation. The final ratings
      consisted of the following:

      Progress Towards Goals
      Professional Practice Goal-Met
      Student Learning Goal-Significant Progress
      District Improvement Goal-Met

      Performance of Standards
      Standard I-Instructional Leadership-Proficient
      Standard II-Management and Operations-Proficient
      Standard III-Family and Community Engagement-Proficient
      Standard IV-Professional Culture-Proficient

      Overall Summative Rating-Proficient

      Goals
      Student Learning-Significant Progress
      During the 2022-2023 academic year, I will empower and design opportunities for students
      and educators to build foundational leadership capacity through opportunities for student
      voice, choice, representation and advocacy. In doing so I will further develop the diversity,
      equity and inclusion initiative from PfS while stabilizing and advancing the METCO program
      and increasing equity for all students, with specific focus on students receiving special
      education.

      Professional Practice Goal-Met
      Throughout the 2022-2023 school year, I will continue to build strong relationships with the
      School Committee and the teachers’ union while developing a high-functioning leadership
      team of district administrators and principals through my continued participation in the
      New Superintendent Induction Program. I will continue developing skills in strategy &
      budget development, data analysis, and instructional leadership.
       District Improvement Goal 1-Significant Progress
       Using Instructional Rounds during the 2022-2023 academic year, I will collaborate with the
       leadership team and educators to strengthen instructional practices with a focus on equity
       and inclusion. This work will include the implementation of targeted interventions and
       supports for all students, including professional development for educators.

       District Improvement Goal 2-Met
       During the 2022-2023 school year, I will work with schools and the community to increase
       my visibility and enhance two-way communication with all stakeholders. This will be
       evidenced by an increased understanding of our schools by district parents and community
       members as measured by varied outreach efforts.

       Areas of strength and areas recommended for continued improvement/growth were
       shared by each member to be considered for incorporation into the final summative.

       After the full evaluation was reviewed, a discussion about scheduling a meeting to review
       and vote the summative compilation the following Tuesday took place. Committee member
       Mathers recommended taking a vote to formalize the work completed that evening in case
       a committee member was unable to attend the anticipated meeting scheduled for Tuesday.

       Ms. Fox asked for a motion to support the summative evaluation pending grammatical
       edits. The motion was moved and seconded. The motion passes, 5-0 all in favor. The
       committee would receive the finalized version from Ms. Taylor within a few days.

III.   Adjournment
       Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 10:20pm

       Respectfully Submitted,
       Lisa Dimier, Secretary
       Marblehead School Committee

       Approved June 15, 2023
