                         Record of the Marblehead School Committee Workshop
                                         Thursday June 29, 2023
                                        Marblehead High School
                                        Library Conference Room
                                                 7:00pm
   https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/j/92807484203?pwd=NVp2SFgyaFlRQ1lzME9Tei91VkxsQT09

           Members Present:       Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner, Alison Taylor and
           Members Absent:        Meagan Taylor
           Also:                  Superintendnet John J. Buckey
                                  Assistant Superintendent Finance and Operations Michelle Cresta

I. Initial Business
   a. Call to Order
   b. Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:01pm.
   c. Committee Organization
       i.Chair
          Ms. Schaeffner nominated Ms. Fox as Chairperson which was seconded by Ms. Alison
          Taylor. The motion passes, 4-0
       ii. Vice Chair
            Ms. Fox nominated Ms. Schaeffner as Vice-Chair which was seconded by Mr. Ota. The
            motion passes, 4-0
       iii. Secretary
            Ms. Schaeffner nominated Ms. Alison Taylor as secretary which was seconded by Ms. Fox.
            The motion passes, 4-0
   d. Commendations
       • Chairperson Fox commanded former committee member Sarah Gold for her five years of
            service on the committee.
       • Ms. Alison Taylor commended the elementary school staff for their planning of the moving
            on ceremonies. She also recognized all community members who ran for elections.
   e. Public Comment
       • Paul Baker congratulated new committee members Mr. Ota and Ms. Schaeffner. He further
            recognized former committee member Ms. Gold for her years of dedication and service to
            the schools during a time which required “steadying of the ship.” He spoke against revisiting
            the list of budget cuts noting the difficulty in determining the importance of which positions
            should be reinstated over others. Mr. Baker also inquired about the status of a discrimination
            lawsuit against the district.

II. Consent Action and Agenda Items
    a. Schedule of Bills
       Ms. Fox asked for a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling $602,846.57. The motion
       was moved by Alison Taylor and seconded by Brian Ota. The motion passes, 4-0.

III. Superintendent Report
     a. District Updates
        i. Elementary Literacy Curriculum Roll out
            Superintendent Buckey explained that principals set evaluation goals for their educators
            pertaining to literacy and math and significant progress was made in which most educators
            met or exceeded their goals.
                The leadership team met on Monday for professional development related to the new K-6
                ELA curriculum Wit and Wisdom. Assistant Superintendent Julia Ferreira provided a brief
                presentation about the training and plan for implementation. It was mentioned that literacy
                leaders will be assigned at each school and grade level. Discussion pertaining to phonics, the
                use of Fundations and aligning curriculum took place.

     IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
         a. FY 24 Budget Discussion
            A discussion about the list of budget cuts took place. Ms. Schaeffner and Ms. Fox spoke in
            favor of using surplus funds to prepay out of district tuition costs. It was also recommended by
            Chairperson Fox that a reprioritized list be created to determine which eliminated positions
            could be brought back.

            Superintendnet Buckey and Assistant Superintendent Cresta spoke against revisiting the list as it
            was a list that was collaboratively generated with the leadership team in preparation of a failed
            override. Ms. Cresta confirmed that prepayment of out of district tuition costs would occur, but
            she cautioned against using any additional one-time revenues to pay for costs that would be part
            of the following year’s budget.

            Ms. Schaeffner spoke in favor of reinstating Freshman sports and Ms. Fox recommended
            looking into increasing user fees to fund Freshman sports. Committee members Fox and Alison
            Taylor recommended scheduling a meeting with the Town to revisit the ARPA funds
            discussion.

            After a discussion about the budget took place, Superintendent Buckey reminded the committee
            of the collective bargaining year ahead, the $400k in technology updates anticipated for FY25
            along with additional curriculum related increase.

            Chairperson Fox asked for a motion to revisit the budget cuts pending reports from Assistant
            Superintendent Cresta. The motion was moved by Ms. Schaeffner and seconded by Principal
            Ota. The motion passes, 4-0

            Ms. Schaeffner made a motion to reinstate Freshman sports which was seconded by Ms. Alison
            Taylor. The motion passes, 4-0.

           Chairperson Fox recommended meeting next on July 6th to discuss appointing liaisons and
           subcommittees, go over protocols and address potential adjustments to the budget. Ms. Fox
           mentioned reaching out to committee member Meagan Taylor to confirm her availability.
        b. School Committee Summer Retreat discussion
           The week of the 24th was discussed as a possible date to meet for the retreat.
        c. Massachusetts Association of School Committees Annual Conference
           The conference will take place on November 8th through the 10th and a discount with be applied
           for early registrations. Interested committee members should notify Ms. Fox if they would like
           to attend.

V.      Closing Business
        a. New Business
           Ms. Alison Taylor requested additional information pertaining to a specific records request. She
           suggested scheduling an Executive Session to be further informed. Ms. Schaeffner suggested
           scheduling an Executive Session to also be informed about pending lawsuits.
   When Chairperson Fox requested the above referenced information from Superintendent
   Buckey, he noted that he has been working with legal and will confirm with legal what he can
   release.

   Ms. Fox recommended having legal attend a meeting to explain how the district was advised to
   respond to a records request requested by community member, Ms. Day. She noted her concern
   with responding to requests in a manner that aligns with records request law.
b. Correspondence
   Ms. Taylor spoke about correspondence received about the vacant Coffin School. Ms. Fox
   explained how the only mechanism to sell the Coffin School is by putting a property on a Town
   Article to begin the process to turn the building back over to the Town.
c. Adjournment
   Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 8:29pm.

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved August 11, 2023

Schedule of Bills
Wit and Wisdom Presentation
Reduced Service Budget Detail
ARPA Requests
MASC Conference Information
School Committee Meeting Dates
School Committee Operating Protocols
Subcommittee and Liaisons List
