                                   Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                                Thursday August 24, 2023
                                                        7:00PM

Members Present:        Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner , Alison Taylor

Also Present:           Michelle Cresta-Assistant Superintendent of Finance

I. Initial Business

a. Call to Order

Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00PM

b. Commendations

       Staff Commended for work put in over the summer to get Marblehead ready for the start of the 2023/2024 School
        Year
       Marblehead Housing Authority commended for event held this past weekend for tenants and they provided a lot
        of materials to students

c. Public Comment

       None

Il. District Updates — Michelle Cresta

       Reminder that next week starts the 2023/2024 School Year

       New Teacher Orientation Monday 08/28/2023

       All other Teachers return Tuesday 08/29/2023

       09/05/23 Students Return

       09/07/23 Pre-K Students Return

       Convocation Wednesday 08/30/23

       Transportation Registration opened last week, and we have 139 bus riders

       There is a small wait list for Pay to Ride program

       MBTA passes for Middle School and High School students are available in the Schools

Ill. Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills    (vote)

Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $160,057.15

Moved by Ms. Shaeffner, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Shaeffner-All Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

b. Appointment of Nurse - Glover School          (vote)

Motion to appoint Ms. Collins as School Nurse for the Glover School

Moved by Mr. Ota Seconded by Ms. Shaeffner

Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor , Mr. Ota and Ms. Shaeffner-All Yes

A roll call vote was taken and the motion passes 4-0

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

a. Interim Superintendent Search Discussion      (vote)

       Contracted with NASDAQ to assist us in our Superintendent Search
       The notice went live on Monday 08/21/23
       Next step is to secure a Parent Volunteer as well as an Administrator to serve on the Search Committee
       09/18/23 first meeting of Screening Committee

Ms. Fox asked for a motion to appoint Ms. Cresta to the interim Superintendent search committee

Moved by Ms.Shaeffner Seconded by Ms. Taylor

Opened up for Discussion

Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor , Mr. Ota and Ms. Shaeffner-All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

Ms. Shaeffner asked for a motion to appoint Ms. Fox and Ms. Alison Taylor to the interim Superintendent search
committee

Moved by Ms.Fox Seconded by Mr. Ota

Opened up for Discussion

Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor , Mr. Ota and Ms. Shaeffner-All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

b. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates

Curriculum Subcommittee

       Mr. Ota has done some research on the idea of a Curriculum Sub Committee
       14 different districts were contacted
       Of the 14, 3 did not respond
       2 districts have Curriculum Support Sub Committee’s
       The programs within these districts have evolved into something else that provides additional support to students

Mr. Ota asks for a motion to drop the Curriculum Subcommittee
Ms. Fox states that it was never originated and therefore there is no action needed today

Finance Committee

       No meeting scheduled at this time
       Need a plan to set up the meeting times for subcommittee

V. Closing Business

a. New Business- School Committee Announcements and Requests

       Ms. Fox was able to speak with the State Auditor at an event
       Ms. Fox would like to invite the statue auditor to come to Marblehead to audit our practices due to the concerns
        shared by voters over School Committee transparency

b. Correspondence

       Ms. Taylor will be writing a letter to bring to the select board regarding the APRA funds
       The letter will be brought to the School Committee at the next meeting for review
       Ms, Fox received a piece of correspondence from another member of the School Committee Meagan Taylor
       Ms. Fox read the correspondence

Meeting is adjourned at 8:00PM by Ms. Fox

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
