                             Record of the Marblehead School Committee Workshop
                                            Thursday June 15, 2023
                                            Marblehead High School
                                           Library Conference Room
                                                    7:00pm
       https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/j/92730374315?pwd=WkZlelgrOFIwQ2U4SlloRjIzNlhndz09

               Members Present:      Sarah Fox, Sarah Gold, Thomas Mathers, Alison Taylor
               Members Absent        Meagan Taylor

               Also:                 Superintendent John J. Buckey
                                     Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations, Michelle Cresta

I.      Initial Business
        a. Call to Order
            Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00pm. It was mentioned that committee member Gold
            was expected to arrive late.
        b. State of the District
            Superintendent Buckey provided district updates mentioning the following:
            • The Glover School was recognized for being named an exemplary partner for setting high
                 standards for building an innovative Safe Routes to School program.
            • He acknowledged the fifteen staff known to be retiring per building and position and
                 thanked them for their years of service to the Marblehead schools.
            • Superintendent Buckey also noted the graduation ceremony and the wonderful experience it
                 was.
            • Superintendent Buckey also spoke about the discussions unfolding surrounding his contract
                 and a salary increase. He recommended that a salary freeze occur given the uncertainty of
                 the pending budget vote so that the community focus would remain on the vote and not on
                 concerns surrounding the Superintendent’s contract or any recommended raise.
        c. Commendations
            • Chairperson Fox thanked all educators, staff and parents for another successful school year.
            • She also commended High School Principal Daniel Bauer who will be moving on from
                 Marblehead to join Danvers Public Schools as their next Superintendent. She thanked him
                 for his immeasurable efforts in his role. Other committee members echoed Ms. Fox’s
                 sentiment.
        d. Public Comment
            Cameron Staples shared some input regarding the Superintendent’s upcoming review until a
            technological error disconnected his audio to the school committee. Chairperson Fox noted that
            they will come back to public comment.

     II. Consent Action and Agenda Items
         a. Approval of Minutes
            5/18/2023, 6/1/2023 and 6/6/2023
            Chairperson Fox asked for a motion to approve the minutes from May 18th, June 1, and June
            6th.The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Mr. Mathers.The motion passes-4-0.
   b. Schedule of Bills-Chairperson Fox asked for a motion to approve the schedule of bills totaling
      $602,846.57 The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms. Alison Taylor. The
      motion pass-5-0.

   c. User Fees
      After Assistant Superintendent Cresta provided an update on the proposed plan for the increase
      to user fees, Chairperson Fox asked for a motion to approve the user fees for the 2023-2024
      school year as proposed. The motion was moved by Ms. Gold and seconded by Mr. Mathers.
      Ms. Cresta also mentioned that the payment of all fees will be streamlined to make the process
      more efficient for families including for those families who qualify for waivers due to income
      status. The motion passes-4-0.

       Public Comment
       • Jessic Benedetto spoke about expanding the bussing program to district-wide.
       • Jennifer Jackson shared that SEPAC received 52 nominations for the Unsung Heroes award
          in which all 5 schools were represented. A list of nominations per building was shared.
       • Scott Solberg commended Superintendent Buckey for his participation with the SEPAC
          organization.
       • Cameron Staples recognized the transparency the Superintendent has brought to the
          budgeting process during the last few fiscal years. He spoke to the benefit of consistency in
          leadership. He further inquired about a higher evaluation rating than the one provided in the
          Superintendent’s annual review.
       • Catherine Martin thanked the retirees for their commitment and noted the impact their loss
          will leave. She also encouraged community members to remain focused on the budget and
          be prepared to make an informed vote.

III. Superintendent Report
     a. District Updates
        • The Wellness Advisory Council recently met and a liaison from the department attended. As
            a result of the work done on the wellness policy, a new life-threatening food allergies policy
            referenced within the wellness policy will also be brought forward for consideration.
        • The Village School has recommended internal applicant Carla Rose as Interim Assistant
            Principal for the 2023-2024 school year.
        • Superintendent Buckey and Chairperson Fox held a meeting with the MEA to discuss
            implementing a sick leave bank.

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
    a. Superintendent Review Process and Superintendent 2022-2023 Annual Review Approval
       Chairperson Fox provided an update on the workshop meeting that took place for the
       Superintendent’s review. She spoke in favor of the collaborative effort for a new process.

      Mr. Mathers provided a reminder of the process and purpose of the Superintendent’s annul
      review cycle. He encouraged the committee to work with the Superintendent to take time setting
      annual goals.
   b. Pickle Ball Court-Operating Hours
      Chairperson Fox explained that the Recreation and Parks Commission took a vote on May 16th
      to reduce the hours the Pickleball Courts are open to the public from the end of June through
      August 31st to offer some quieter moment to the residents of Vine St.
       After the update on the Pickleball courts was provided, Mr. Mathers inquired about formally
       voting the Superintendent’s review to which Ms. Fox agreed to pending spelling and
       grammatical errors. Mr. Mathers made a motion to accept the 2022-2023 school year review as
       presented which was seconded by Ms. Gold. The motion passes, 4-0. Ms. Fox requested the
       minutes reflect a previous 5-0 in favor vote to account for Ms. Meagan Taylor’s absence.

c. Subcommittee and Liaisons Updates
   None, other than noting that the wellness policy will need to be brought forward to a new
   subcommittee.

V. Closing Business
   a. New Business
      Chairperson Fox thanked committee members Mathers for serving on the committee.
      Mr. Mathers encouraged committee members to focus on governance. He commended the
      Superintendent for his leadership and thanked fellow committee members for the opportunity to
      work alongside them.
   b. Correspondence
      None
   c. Adjournment
      Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 7:52pm.


   Respectfully Submitted,
   Lisa Dimier, Secretary
   Marblehead School Committee

   Approved August 11, 2023

   Materials Included:
   Superintendent’s Presentation
   Safe Routes to School Award Recognition
   Schedule of Bills
   User Fees
   Superintendent Evaluation Process-MASC
   Superintendent’s 2022-2023sy Evaluation
   Pickleball Hours Recommendation
