                           Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                         Monday March 13, 2023
                                                9:00am

                                        https://marbleheadschools-
               org.zoom.us/j/98611586972?pwd=N0RuU2dtcHFuVDdJOFh5Rk5hUGRtQT09

     Members Present:         Sarah Fox, Sarah Gold, Thomas Mathers, Alison Taylor and Meagan Taylor


     Also Present :          John J. Buckey, Superintendent
                             Nan Murphy, Assistant Superintendent
                             Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations

I.   Initial Business
      a. Call to Order
           Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 9:00am
      b. Public Comment
           None

II. FY24 Budget Planning and Discussion
    It was explained that the budget focused meeting was scheduled for the school committee to provide a
    more finalized direction for presenting a budget at the budget hearing scheduled for Tuesday March 21st.
    The three budgets that have been put together include:
      • The budget termed the austerity budget which will only include an increase of $800,000 from FY23
      • The budget termed the level services budget which will support an increase of about 5% from FY23
      • The original budget ask presented at the budget workshop held on January 30th which will include a
         budget increase of over 9% from FY23

     After discussion, it was confirmed that any of the budgets being presented would need to be posted at least
     48 hours in advance of the budget workshop. It was also mentioned that the “austerity budget” would need
     to be posted either way along with whichever other budget(s) the school committee decides to present.

     A discussion about whether out of district special education related costs, utilities associated costs and
     funding for the new math program would be included in the level services budget took place. Additional
     discussion about the difficulty of presenting a budget without confirmation of the Town’s position also
     occurred. Further discussion pertaining to asking for an override without the support of the Town took
     place and a majority of committee members agreed that without Town support, an override has a limited
     chance of passing. It was mentioned that the Town is planning for a one-year budgeting fix for FY24.
     They will then plan to address the major structural issues when planning for FY25.

     Ms. Fox spoke in favor of presenting all three budgets at the hearing and asked for a motion to have Dr.
     Buckey and his team present the difference between three budget options and for the school committee to
     follow up on their vote thereafter. The motion was not moved and Ms. Fox asked if anyone would like to
     make an alternate motion.

     Mr. Mathers made a motion to present a budget based on Town guidance and article 31 with the Town for
     a level service override in the amount of about a 1.8 million-dollar increase in general fund appropriations.
     The motion was seconded by Ms. Meagan Taylor for discussion.

     Prior to discussion, Ms. Cresta clarified that the 1.8 million-dollars referenced in the motion is incorrect. It
     was explained that the 1.8-million-dollar number is just the number for the payroll contractual obligations,
     utilities, and special education increase. The number for the level service budget will be representative of a
     2.2-million-dollar budget which accounts for a 5.06% increase.
    Ms. Fox recommended amending the motion to present a level service as well as the austerity balanced
    budget. Mr. Mathers agreed and amended the motion to reflect presenting the austerity budget reflecting an
    increase of $800,000 and the level services budget with and increase of 2.2 million-dollars.

    Ms. Fox mentioned that the committee is currently agreeing on the budget(s) which will be presented and
    not on a dollar amount as voting the dollar amount entails a budget vote which cannot occur without
    numbers from the Town.

    Ms. Alison Taylor shared her frustration with not having a Town number this far along in the budget
    planning. Ms. Fox revisited her feelings on presenting all three budgets and Ms. Gold spoke in
    favor of the level services budget as it is a budget that meets the Town halfway.

    A roll call vote was taken and the amended motion passes 4-1.

    Ms. Alison Taylor, Ms. Meagan Taylor, Ms. Gold, and Mr. Mathers-all yes.
    Ms. Fox-no

    Ms. Fox requested that the list of reductions discussed at the last budget subcommittee meeting be posted
    to the website.

    Ms. Taylor mentioned that she is unfortunately unable to attend the hearing on Tuesday or the meeting
    scheduled for the vote on Thursday and inquired if the meeting for the vote could be moved. Options on
    Friday the 24th and Monday the 27th were mentioned. After a brief discussion, Monday the 27th at 6pm
    was recommended for the budget vote which seemed to work well for all and will be coordinated offline.

III. Closing Business
a. New Business
     Ms. Fox shared that she has requested to attend the weekly meeting with education association for budget
     related purposes due to the potential for staffing reductions. She mentioned that she felt it was important
     for morale. After a committee discussion, committee members were not in support of committee
     attendance at MEA meetings.

    After each committee members voiced their opinions of how they were not in full support of joining the
    meetings, Ms. Fox questioned if she has the support of the members in her role as Chair. Committee
    members confirmed their support of Ms. Fox in her role as Chairperson. Ms. Gold also noted the difficulty
    of debating important topics and votes which impact students along with the emotional aspects of voting a
    budget.

    Ms. Taylor reminded the committee that Dr. Buckey’s job is to handle District morale and for the
    committee to support him in that role. She also spoke in favor of the healthy debate that took place during
    the meeting.

    Ms. Fox asked for the public comment she skipped over earlier on the agenda. There was no public
    comment.

b. Adjournment
   Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 10:07am

    Respectfully Submitted,
    Lisa Dimier, Secretary
    Marblehead School Committee

    Approved March 16, 2023
