Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Thursday October 05, 2023

7:00PM
Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner , Alison Taylor. Meaghan Taylor
Also Present: Michelle Cresta-Acting Superintendent, Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent

1, Initial Business

a. Call to Order

Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00PM
b. Commendations

» Happy World Teachers Day

» Marblehead Rotary Club commended for gifting Marblehead Public Schools the Inner Explore program for the
second year in a row

» Commendation to Student Representative for always being prepared to speak at the School Committee Meetings

¢, Public Comment
= None
d. Student Representative — Ms. Piper

Fourth week of school completed

Picture Day 10/3/23

Club Fair 10/28/23 in the Gym

SAT 10/07

Freshman Class Elections 10/04/23

10/18 Day 0 for Students to complete various activities outside of the classroom

Senior Class met to discuss the annual powder puff game that will take place in November
Fund the Field Homecoming 10/14/23

Financial Aid night 10/26/23 grades 9-11

Cross Country undefeated so far

IL. District Updates-Ms. Cresta

« Successful Walk, Ride and Roll Day in conjunction with Safe Routes to School on 10/4/23
» 40/18/23 the High School will be offering the PSAT exam for grades 10 and 11
« School closed Monday 10/9/23 in observance of Indigenous Peoples Day

MCAS Presentation by Ms. Ferreira

" Ms. Ferreira gave a presentation on the current state of the District’s MCAS Scores. The ELA and Math scores
were used as examples for this presentation beginning with the scores from the 2018/2019 School Year. It was
demonstrated that Marblehead Public Schools scores are rising year over year with the exception of the
2020/2021 School year due to the pandemic. The presentation ended by showing the scores for spring 2023 which
showed significant improvement and an action plan to continue to support students towards MCAS Scores goals,

Ill, Consent Action and Agenda Items


--- page break ---

a. Schedule of Bills (vote)

Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $443,297.61
Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Ms Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Shaeffner-All Yes
A vote was taken and the motion passes 5-0

b. Approval of Minutes 07/06/23, 07/26/23, and 08/11/23 (vote)

A vote was taken and the motion passes 5-0 with the understanding that there are some changes needed to the meeting
minutes from 07/26/2023

Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Ms Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms, Shaeffner-All Yes
c. Approval of Out of State Field Trip 0.1/13/2024-01/14-2024 to New York City (vote)

» Mr. Scoglio Performing Arts Teacher for the High School presented an out of State Field Trip to New York City.
The trip is open to all members of the Music Department as well as Students active in the Drama Club. The total
per student for the trip comes to $559.

Motion to approve the out of state field trip to New York City from 01/13/24-01/14/24
The motion is moved by Mr. Ota and Seconded by Ms. Taylor

A vote was taken and the motion passes 5-0

Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Ms Taylor, Mr, Ota and Ms. Shaeffner-All Yes

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items’

a, Interim Superintendent Search Update

" The School Committee had two interviews on Monday

" Did reference checks on the candidates

« A meeting has been scheduled with the School Committee for Wednesday 10/11/23 to pick up this discussion

b. Approval of Contracts (vote)

» Addendum to Ms. Cresta’s contract for additional compensation for role as the Acting Superintendent
" Vote to approve the extension of Ms. Cresta’s contract

Moved by Ms, Shaeffner seconded by Ms. Taylor

Addendum to Ms. Crestas Contract

A vote was taken and the motion passes 5-0

Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Ms Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Shaeffner-All Yes
Renewal of Ms. Crestas Contract-07/01/2024-06/30/2027

A vote was taken and the motion passes 5-0

Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Ms Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Shaeffner-All Yes



--- page break ---

c. ARPA (American Rescue Plan Act) discussion

« Ms. Taylor and Ms. Cresta had a meeting with the town to discuss the ARPA process
« After the implementation of the new financial system the School will have $700,000 left in ARPA funds

d. Declaration of Surplus Goods (vote)

Motion to declare the curriculum items listed as surplus goods

The motion is moved by Ms. Taylor and Seconded by Ms. Shaeffner
A vote was taken and the motion passes 5-0

Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Ms Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms, Shaeffner-All Yes
e, School Owned Properties Discussion

* Opened up the discussion on the request from the Chair of the Select Board to release the Coffin School property
from the School Department

«The board who owns said property typically will maintain care of the property until the board comes to the
decision that there is no present or future educational use

«Last year the Facilities Committee voted unanimously to maintain the Coffin School Property

« Those present for this vote included Ms. Cresta, Dr. Buckey, Mr. Bloodgood, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox and Mr. St.
George

« Concerns were voiced about getting rid of the Coffin School property when the school does not know the
outcome of the Town Meeting Vote surrounding the Zoning laws and the potential to add an additional 900 units
to the Town of Marbiechead

«Felt it would be irresponsible for the School Department to give up the Coffin School property given that we do
not know what the educational needs of the town will be in the future

« Waiting on feedback from the Safety Committee regarding the state of the building

"Facilities Sub Committee to provide a recommendation to the School Committee for how to properly deal with
the facility on that property

» Inventory of everything that is currently in the Coffin School has been requested

» A warrant article will not be sponsored to transfer ownership of the Coffin School Property to the Town

Motion to declare Coffin School as necessary for potential future educational purposes and to not sponsor a warrant
article to turn it back over to the Town

The motion is moved by Ms. Shaeffner and Seconded by Ms. Taylor
Opened up for discussion

« Irresponsible for us to maintain a property that has a cost and a liability
« The vote is premature

A vote was taken and the motion passes 3-2

Ms. Fox, Ms. Alison Taylor and Ms. Shaeffner- Yes
Ms. Meagan Taylor and Mr, Ota-~No

f. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates and Discussion

Screening Committee Update-Ms. Fox



--- page break ---

* No new information on the Screening Committee at this time
Safety Committee Advisory-Mr, Ota

« The Safety Committee was done really well
» The only area that needed improvement was the extreme weather evacuation protocol

V. Closing Business
a. New Business- School Committee Announcements and Requests

b. Correspondence

* New cotrespondence came in today form Judy Croker from the Massachusetts Routes to School Program
«Sarah Fox read the email to the school committee which requested that Marblehead Public Schools invest in the
DESE approved pedestrian and bike safety curriculum

Meeting is adjourned at 9:00PM by School Committee Chair Ms. Fox

