                       Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                     Monday January 23, 2023
                                            7:00pm
                                           Abbot Hall

                                          Zoom Recording ID
https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/j/95547608463?pwd=NVphUS9ZakNMNEQ3cXRUamMwU0RVdz09


  Members Present: Sarah Fox, Sarah Gold, Alison Taylor and Meagan Taylor
  Remote Participants:

  Selectboard:          M. C. Moses Grader
                        Jackie Belf-Becker
                        Erin M. Noonan, remotely
                        James E. Nye
                        Alexa J. Singer, remotely
                        Thatcher W. Kezer III, Town Administrator

  Public Comment
  None

  Joint meeting with the Selectboard to interview applicants for vacancy on School Committee.

  The Town Administrator called the meeting to order at 7pm. The following roll call vote was taken:
  Mrs. Singer, present (remotely); Mrs. Noonan, present (remotely); Mr. Nye, present; Mrs. Belf-
  Becker, present; Mr. Grader, present.

  The Chair of the School Committee, Ms. Sarah Fox called the school committee portion of the
  meeting to order at 7:01pm. All members were present. No roll call was required.

  The Board met in joint session with School Committee members Sarah Fox, Chair, Sarah Gold,
  Meagan Taylor and Alison Taylor, in accordance with MGL Chapter 41 §11 and Marblehead
  School Committee policy BBBE, to fill a vacancy on the school committee. Chair Grader welcomed
  the candidates to the meeting and gave a brief outline for the interview process. The following
  applicants were interviewed: Paul Baker, Don DeWitt, Raymond Hanson, Thomas Mathers, Liam
  McGeown, Scott Stunkel.

  The Chair called for a 5-minute recess at the completion of the interviews.

  After returning from recess, a motion made and seconded to place all applicants’ names in for
  nomination. The motion was moved by Mrs. Noonan. The board and committee members made
  various comments and thanked all applicants for stepping up and encouraged all to stay engaged in
  the Town. The Town Administrator outlined the procedure for voting sharing that a majority vote is
  required to appoint a new member. Additionally, it was explained that if a majority is not received
  on the first round the applicant with the least number of votes will be eliminated and a 2nd round of
  voting will take place with additional rounds to follow until a majority is received.

  On a polled vote the Board’s members shared their reasoning and voted as follows:
  Sarah Gold, Paul Baker
Meagan Taylor, Paul Baker
Alison Taylor, Don DeWitt
Sarah Fox, Tom Mathers
Alexa Singer, Tom Mathers
Erin Noonan, Don DeWitt
Jim Nye, Ray Hanson
Jackie Belf-Becker, Paul Baker
Moses Grader, Tom Mathers

Liam McGeown and Scott Stunkel were eliminated from 2nd round of voting.

A majority vote was not reached and a 2nd polled vote took place as follows:
Sarah Gold, Paul Baker
Meagan Taylor, Paul Baker
Alison Taylor, Tom Mathers
Sarah Fox, Tom Mathers
Alexa Singer, Tom Mathers
Erin Noonan, Tom Mathers
Jim Nye, Ray Hanson
Jackie Belf-Becker, Paul Baker
Moses Grader, Tom Mathers

Tom Mathers is appointed to the School Committee with a term to expire in May of 2023.

The Chair of the school Committee, Ms. Fox adjourned the meeting at 9:19pm

A motion was made by Chair of the Selectboard, Mr. Grader to adjourn at 9:20pm. The motion was
moved by Mr. Nye and seconded by Mrs. Noonan. Mrs. Noonan, yes; Mrs. Singer, yes; Mr. Nye,
yes; Mrs. Belf-Becker, yes; Mr. Grader, yes.

Materials Included:
Letters of interest/resumes
Paul Baker
Don DeWitt
Raymond Hansen
Thomas Mathers
Liam McGeown
Scott Stunkel

Respectfully Submitted,
Lisa Dimier, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

Approved March 2, 2023
