                            Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                        Thursday September 19, 2024
                                                 6:30 PM


Members Present: Jennifer Schaeffner, Sarah Fox, Alison Taylor, Brian Ota, Al Williams

Also Present:      John Robidoux-Interim Superintendent, LisaMarie Ipplolito-Assistant Superintendent of
                   Student Services, Victoria Ryan-Assistant Director of Student Services

I. Initial Business

a. Call to Order

VI. Jennifer Schaeffner makes a motion and vote to meet in executive session pursuant to Mass. General
Laws chapter 30A section 21(a) purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for
collective bargaining with the Marblehead Education Association Unit A, Permanent Substitutes, Unit
Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals, and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have a detrimental
effect on the bargaining position or the Committee with the intent not to return to open session.

Moved by Sarah Fox, Seconded by Brian Ota

Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Ota, Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

The School Committee will now meet in Executive Session pursuant to Mass. General Laws chapter 30A
section 21(a) purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for collective bargaining
with the Marblehead Education Association Unit A, Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit
Paraprofessionals, and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have a detrimental effect on the
bargaining position or the Committee with the intent not to return to open session.

III. Executive Session

School Committee enters Executive Session at 6:30 PM

IV. Return to Open Session (not prior to 7:00PM)

Jennifer Schaeffner calls the public portion of the meeting to order at 7:18PM

V. Opening Business
       a. Pledge of Allegiance
       b. Commendations
            John Robidoux commends our fall sports teams on how they finished out this season
            John also shouts out Adam Angelopolous and Stephanie Tranior, Village School Teachers
       c. Public Comment
            Sally Shevory-80 Garfield Street
                    o Sally would like to honor Katherine Martin for her dedication to our students
                       o A memorial was requested, such as a library plaque, however they were informed
                         that it would go against school committee policies
                    o Sally would like to committee to reconsider the addition of the memorial plaque
                         for Katherine Martin
        d. Student Representative-Ella Venadetta(Spelling)
             Open house last night was successful
             Fall Sports are in “full swing”
             One of the High Schools Acapella groups released an EP
             Ella raises concerns from the senior class about its size this year and the number of parkin
                spots in relation to the size of the class

II. District Updates- Superintendent John Robidoux
      Composting has begun at all schools
      John recognizes that transportation was a “bit bumpy” during the first two weeks of school
              o Lisa Manning and Todd Bloodgood have made adjustments to the routes
      The “Wayfinder” program officially kicked off yesterday
      There are still some open positions throughout the district
      The survey was sent out to ask the community if they would prefer a 6:00 PM, 6:30PM or
         7:00PM start time for the School Committee Meetings
              o The 6:00PM start time was the preference of the community

III. Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills                         (vote)

Ms. Schaeffner asks for a motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $581,728.55

Moved by Ms Taylor, Seconded by Mr. Williams

Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Ota, Mr. Williams, Ms. Schaeffner and -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

b. Approval of Minutes                       (vote)

Ms. Schaeffner asks for a motion to approve the minutes of the School Committee meeting on 06/20/24

Moved by Mr. Williams, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Williams, Ms. Schaeffner and -All Yes

Mr. Ota abstained from the vote

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0 with one abstention

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
        a. Move start time for Marblehead School Committee Business Meetings
              The committee decides to move the start time for the School Committee meetings to
               6:00PM effective at the next scheduled school committee meeting
        b. Request to name Brown School Organic Garden (Policy BEDH)
             Sarah Fox would like to name and dedicate the Brown School organic garden to
               Katherine Martin
             The school committee discusses the policy outlining memorials

Ms. Fox asks for a motion to name the Brown Organic Garden to the Katherine Martin Garden

Seconded by Ms. Taylor

Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Ota, Mr. Williams, Ms. Schaeffner and -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

        c. Tiered Focused Monitoring Corrective Action Plan-LisaMarie Ippolito & Victoria Ryan
             LisaMarie and Victoria give a presentation on Marblehead Public Schools PSM
                 Compliance Report
             The data is provided on the areas in which Marblehead is already in compliance and the
                 corrective actions that will be taken to ensure we correct the areas that need improvement
             The school committee asks clarifying questions to LisaMarie and Victoria regarding the
                 Student Services audit and the PSM Compliance Report information presented
        d. Contract Negotiations update
             The School Committee provides an update on the negotiations with the MEA
             Sarah Fox, Jennifer Schaeffner and Thatcher Kezer (Town Administrator) are members
                 of the bargaining subcommittee presenting this update to the school committee
             Jenn presents and answers questions from the community on how we got here and why
                 we currently do not have a new contract for the MEA
             Some of the reasons we do not currently have a new contract with the MEA:
                      o The MEA wage proposals are “unaffordable and unsustainable” and would result
                         in increased staff layoffs
                      o A 39.5% increase has been proposed by the MEA for Unit A Teachers and
                         Nurses over a 3 year period
                      o Other proposals include:
                               Custodians-67% increase over a 3 year period
                               Tutors-28.8-41% for year one
                               Para’s-113.2%-171.7% for year one
                               Perm Subs-31.6%-1.8% for year one
                               Increases for a new annual longevity benefit
                      o The limited ways in which the town is able to grow our funding so sustain the
                         MEA’s requests are outlined
                      o The ways we are able to “balance the budget” include:
                               Levy growth (currently capped at 2.5%)
                               New growth
                               Override?
                      o Major Funding Concern-“The MEA’s wage proposal increases require a 14% tax
                         override or laying of 42% of staff
        e. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
             Safety Subcommittee-Brian Ota
                   o Brian attended John’s district safety meeting
                   o All principals have done at least one fire drill
             Communications Subcommittee-Brian Ota
                   o Al and Brian met as the Communications subcommittee and are currently
                       working to update the schools committees webpage
             Facilities and Finance Subcommittees-Sarah Fox
                   o Dates are currently being discussed for the first meetings for both of these
                       subcommittees
IX. Closing Buisness
        a. New Business-School Committee announcements and requests
             Brian Ota requests that once a month John Robidoux provides an update on attendance
             Sarah Fox would like to put a budget update on the next school committee meetings
                agenda
             Amy Draker (spelling of last name)-Town Charter Committee
                   o The town is in the process of possibly creating a town charter and woud likle to
                       interview each of the elected boards and ask some questions surrounding how
                       they function and deliver services to the community
        b. Correspondence

Meeting is adjourned at 9:36PM by Ms. Schaeffner

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
