                            Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                          Thursday March 7, 2024
                                                 6:00PM


Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffer, Alison Taylor, Al Williams

Also Present:      Dr. Theresa McGuinnes-Interim Superintendent, Emma Puglisi-Assistant Business
                   Manager, Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and Learning , Mary Delai-
                   Interim Director of Finance and Operations,

I. Initial Business

II. Motion and vote to meet in executive session pursuant to Mass General Laws Chapter 30A Section
21(a) for purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to the Boyd-Perry Litigation

Motion that the School Committee meet in Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws
Chapter 30A section 21(a) for purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to the Boyd-Perry litigation
because an open session may have a detrimental effect on the litigation position of the Committee.

Chair’s Statement following roll call vote on the Motion:

The Committee will now be meeting in executive session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws
Chapter 30A section 21(a) for purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to the Boyd-Perry litigation
because an open session may have a detrimental effect on the litigation position of the Committee. The
Committee will be reconvening in open session following the executive session.

Executive Session

I. Strategy discussion with respect to the Boyd-Perry litigation

II. Opening Business

a. Call to Order

Ms. Fox called the meeting back in session at 7:04PM

b. Commendations
     Alison Taylor would like to wish the cast of Peter Pan at the Village School good luck on their
        performances
     Alison Taylor would like to commend the boys hockey team with their great success
     Alison Taylor would like to let the teachers know that she stands with them and commends them
        for the hard work that they are doing every day
     Brian Ota would like to commend Dr. McGuinness on the Safety Meeting held today
     Brian Ota commends the School Principals for all of the hard work they are doing to make sure
        their buildings are safe
c. Public Comment
     Sally Shevory 18 Garfield Street ; Johnathan Heller 26 Ralph Road
            o   Johnathan states that the “Safety of students and staff remains of the utmost concern of
                the MEA. Educators and Staff have been injured, students are at risk and learning is
                routinely interrupted”
            o Staff is constantly asked to bring students under control without the needed support
            o Our Safety procedures and protocols have remained the same since the change in
                leadership in January
            o The MEA will continue to fight for our educators and for a safe learning and working
                environments for our students and staff
            o The MEA believes that the administrators at Glover were placed on Administrative leave
                “without cause”
            o Educators feel as though they are being left out of important conversations that impact
                our schools specifically surrounding safety and budgeting
     Kristen Xiarhos-16 Merril Road
            o Kristen stands with her Glover colleagues who are being “unjustly disciplined for the
                failed safety policies and protocols of the Marblehead Public Schools”
     Hannah Partyka-Glover School Educator
            o Hannah stands with her Glover colleagues who are being “unjustly disciplined for the
                failed safety policies and protocols of the Marblehead Public Schools”
     Diane Gora-24 Nicholson Street
            o Diane stands with her Glover colleagues who are being “unjustly disciplined for the
                failed safety policies and protocols of the Marblehead Public Schools”
     Lauren Catalano-Glover School Educator
            o Lauren stands with her Glover colleagues who are being “unjustly disciplined for the
                failed safety policies and protocols of the Marblehead Public Schools”
     Linda Bruce 29 Hawthorne Rd ; Laura Weiss 39 Maple St
            o The Pre-K staff at Glover stand with her Glover colleagues who are being “unjustly
                disciplined for the failed safety policies and protocols of the Marblehead Public Schools”
     Sarah Cohen, Isabelle Nee, Marybeth Mingiello, Tammi Michaud, and Kaitlyn King-Glover
        School Educators
            o Sarah, Isabelle, Marybeth, Tammi, and Kaitlyn stand with their Glover colleagues who
                are being “unjustly disciplined for the failed safety policies and protocols of the
                Marblehead Public Schools”
     Lora Clark, Dana Trudeau, Lindsay Burke, Eliza Denham-Village School Educators
            o Lora, Dana, Lindsay and Eliza stand with their Glover colleagues who are being
                “unjustly disciplined for the failed safety policies and protocols of the Marblehead Public
                Schools”
     Emily Perez, Carrie Bergeron, Carrie McClean, Angela Graziano-Glover School Educators
            o Emily, Carrie, Carrie and Angela stand with their Glover colleagues who are being
                “unjustly disciplined for the failed safety policies and protocols of the Marblehead Public
                Schools”
     Meaghan Bruett, Holly Landry-Brown School Educators
            o Meaghan and Holly stand with their Glover colleagues who are being “unjustly
                disciplined for the failed safety policies and protocols of the Marblehead Public Schools”
d. Student Representative-Kat Piper
     03/01 MHS theatre arts performed The Life of the Pheonix at the Vets School
     03/05 Curriculum night for the incoming Freshman
     Today 30 Students in DECA are competing at the State Championship
       The National Honors Society is holding their annual blood drive in the MHS Gym on 03/14 from
        8-1
       The Tri-m Honor Society held a coffee hours in the MHS cafeteria Monday 03/04 at 6:30
        showcasing individual and group performances by the Choir and Jazz Bands
       Honors Spanish 5 Class is hosting a fundraiser for Feeding America
       Marblehead’s Got Talent will be hosting its Semi Finals on 03/13 at MHS and Finals will be on
        03/27 at the Cabot Theatre in Beverly
       The Junior Class of 2025 held a fundraiser at Chipotle this past Friday to raise more money for
        their class and the Junior Auction has been open since 03/01
            o It closes on 03/10
       The Sophomore Semi formal will be 03/15
       Seniors were given a presentation on available upcoming scholarships this week
       Spring sports have started holding practices this week-the official start of the season is 03/18

II. District Updates-Dr. Theresa McGuinness
      Dr. McGuinness thanks all of the educators for their statements
      The report has been received by the District from the Department of Children and Family
         Services regarding the incident at Glover
      There will be a plan distributed to staff with updated policies and procedures with respect to
         restraints and de-escalation measures
      Opened for Discussion
              o Alison Taylor reiterates what she stated in the beginning of the meeting and adds that it is
                  clear that the training was not provided to properly assist these educators in dysregulating
                  the child
                       Our educators should be trained by the highest level of professional in safety care
                           protocols
              o The School Committee has not seen the videos
              o There was a press release made regarding ongoing district personal matters
                       Policies need to be in place to provide what our students and staff need
                       Sarah reads some of the recommendations that came out of the investigative
                           report
a. FY25 budget status update
      Special Education Audit Update-Requested by Brian Ota
              o A contract should be ready by mid-May with work to commence 06/01-the proposal is
                  50% complete
              o The RFP will be ready to advertise by mid-month with responses due in April
              o There will then be a 2-3 week evaluation period with possible interviews with the top 3
                  forms
      Roofing Project Update
              o The OPM Bid Docs are underway
              o The RFP will be advertised by the end of this month-responses are due in mid-April
              o We anticipate a contract to be awarded by mid-May
              o We anticipate a design contract to be awarded mid-July
      Air Quality Assessment completed in February
              o Tests have been performed on the identified area at MHS that there was mold suspected
                  due to a roof leak
              o Almost all of the recommendations at this time are complete
      Dr. McGuinness provided an update on MHS Sports and highlighted the hockey team who will be
         going to the semi-finals
       Staffing Updates
            o The positions of Director of Finance and Operations, Director of Student Services and the
                 Glover School Principal searches are all being developed
     Athletic Fee Proposal-Greg Ceglarski and Emma Puglisi
        o Option 1-Increase the current annual fee to approximately $1340 with a family cap of $2680
            (High School) / Increase the current annual fee to approximately $590 with a family cap of
            $2680 (Middle School)
        o Option 2-Asseses a per season fee which would be hire for the first sport, and then decreasing
            for the second and third seasons with a family cap of $2980
                 • $575 for the first season (High School)
                 • $495 for the second season (High School)
                 • $420 for the third season (High School)
                         • A similar structure would be followed at the Middle School
        o Option 3-Introduce a tiered-fee system
                 • More expensive sports will be assisted at a higher fee
                 • Sports that would have higher coach stipends and equipment costs
Opened for Discussion
     Sarah Fox compares the proposed family cap to Swampscott
     Staffing Accountability Report-
            o Patti Bell, our Interim Director of Student Services is completing this request
            o It is requested that the report is provided to the School Committee prior to the budget
                 hearing
     Matt Fox to speaks to how Principals determine their staffing needs in the Special Education
        department at the Veterans Middle School
            o The process begins with communication with the chair at the ascending school
            o They focus on student needs and the first impact on their programs
            o They have two teachers per grade for all Inclusion students under two case managers
            o They look at whether or not they have enough support staff to address basic needs
            o Lastly they look at specialized services needed for inclusion students
VI. Consent Action and Agenda Items
a. Schedule of Bills     (vote)

Motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $535,668.10

Moved by Mr. Williams, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Williams, Ms. Schaeffner, and Ms. Fox -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

b. Approval of Minutes (vote)
     None

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items\
a. Interim Superintendent Search Update
      There was a recommendation made regarding the wording of the advertisement
      The Committee will convene on 04/24 to discuss the interview process
b. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
      Finance Committee-Sarah Fox
          o Working on booking 2 additional liaison meetings
          o Budget hearing is booked for 03/21 at 7:00PM at the PAC at the Middle School
      Bargaining Subcommittee
          o First meeting scheduled for 03/14

V. Closing Business

a. New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests
     Brian Ota has created a survey to release to the community to assist in improving communication
     This survey will be voted on at the 03/21/24 School Committee meeting
b. Correspondence
     Email received by the Committee from David Harris and Amy Drinker regarding appointing an
        Interim Superintendent instead of a Permanent Superintendent
c. Adjournment

Meeting is adjourned at 9:27PM by Ms. Fox

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
