Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Thursday December 19, 2024
6:00 PM

Members Present: Jennifer Schaeffner, Sarah Fox, Alison Taylor, Brian Ota, Al Williams

Also Present: John Robidoux-Interim Superintendent, Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent of
Teacher and Learning, Michael Pfifferling-Assistant Superintendent of Finance and

Operations
Ms, Schaeffner calls the meeting to order at 6:02 PM

I. Opening Business
a. Pledge of Allegiance

b. Commendations
= Sarah Fox would like to commend the performing arts staff of Marblehead Public
Schools
«Sarah would also like to commend Aleesha Benjamin, Marblehead Town Finance
Director, for her input and attendance at the Facilities Subcommittee meeting this week
* Brian Ota would like to commend Allison McMahon for her work on the School
Committee Meeting minutes
= John Robidoux would like to commend Caja Johnson, the METCO Director for
Marblehead Public Schools
c. Public Comment
« Deborah Noah-Parent of a Student at Marblehead High School
o Deborah states her opposition to the days missed due to the strike being made up
on Saturdays because it is the Jewish Sabbath
=» Yael McGen (Spelling)- -Parent of a Student at Marblehead High School and Vets
o Yael states her opposition to the days missed due to the strike being made up on
Saturdays because it is the Jewish Sabbath
« Janice Knight-Director for the Center for Jewish Education and Marblehead Resident
o Janice states her opposition to the days missed due to the strike being made up on
Saturdays because it is the Jewish Sabbath
d. Student Representative-Ella Benedetto (Spelling)
« Freshman seminars are underway and Junior Parent/Guardian night is 01/15/25
« The Music Department had a very successful winter concert last week
« Winter Sports update provided
I. District Updates- Superintendent John Robidoux
* John Robidoux would like to thank the community for welcoming him to the district
* MCAS update will be given by Julia Ferreira and our schools Principals
* John discusses the changes to requirements surrounding MCAS testing and graduation
«An update is provided on the roof replacement at the High School
« The independent investigation into allegations of antisemitism is still taking place
* A staffing update is provided highlighting how many employees have been hired since the
beginning of this school year
IH]. Consent Action and Agenda Items

--- page break ---

a. Schedule of Bills (vote)

Ms. Schaeffner asks for a motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $535,906.83
Moved by Ms Fox, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Ms. Taylor, Mr. Ota, Ms. Fox, Ms. Schaeffer and -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

b. North Shore Collaborative annual plan approval (vote)

Ms. Schaeffner asks for a motion to approve the North Shore Educational Consortium plan
Moved by Ms Fox, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Ms. Taylor, Mr. Ota, Ms. Fox, Ms. Schaeffner and -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
a. MCAS Overview
"Julia Ferreira gives a presentation on Analyzing MCAS in which she presents the
results of Marblehead’s MCAS testing completed in Spring 2024
"Mary Maxfield-Brown School Principal, Frank Kowalski-Glover School Principal,
Scott Williams-Village School Principal, Matt Fox- Veterans School Prinicpal, and
Michele Carlson-Marblehead High School Principal all give presentations specific
to their schools and MCAS results from Spring 2024
* Within the presentation Julia also presents the data on Marblehead students and
their attendance trends over the past two years
= The fuil presentation can be found on within the agenda of the 12/19/2024 School
Committee Meeting on Marbleheadschools.org
b. FY25 Financial Update-Michael Pfifferling
= 80% of Marblehead’s budget is in Salaries
= Most up to date budget report provided to the school committee prior to today’s
meeting
= ESSER funds have been fully expended
«The towns ARPA money needs to be committed by the end of this month and they
then have two years to expend it
= There will be a meeting the first week back after December break to begin the
budget discussion for next school year
c. Communication Subcommittee presentation (Brian Ota)
« Brian Ota discusses the updates made to the Frequently Asked Questions page on
Marbleheadschools.org
" Sarah Fox suggests a workshop for FAQ development
* The School Committee Website is also being updated with Steve Kwiatek’s help
" We will be caught up with our School Committee Meeting minutes by the next
school committee meeting

--- page break ---

= There will be a review done of the Public Comment policy during one of the
upcoming Policy Subcommittee meetings
« Brian Ota shares a sample newsletter with the Committee
d. School Calendar survey update (Alison Taylor)
* Alison Taylor presents the results of the MPS Makeup Days survey
« She breaks down the responses from staff as well as the community
"The majority of the MPS Staff would like to utilize Saturdays for the makeup days
" Most of the community would like to utilize April Vacation
e. School Attendance Policy (possible vote)
"Sarah Fox would like to suspend the attendance policy for the remainder of this
school year due to the strike
« John Robidoux suggests only suspending the attendance policy for the 10 days that
have been designated as makeup days due to the strike and not for the remainder of
the school year

Ms. Fox asks for a motion to dismiss the attendance policy for the remainder of the 2024/2025 School
Year

Second by Ms. Taylor

Ms. Shaeffner amends the motion to dismiss the attendance policy for the makeup days alone until the
Jirst meeting in January when John Robidoux will provide an update on how this can be accomplished
operationally

Seconded by Ms. Taylor
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

Mr. Ota, Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffner and -All Yes

Sarah Fox makes a motion to make June 20, 2024 a full day of school and June 24, 2024 a half day of
school

Ms. Taylor, Mr, Ota, Ms. Fox, Ms. Schaeffner and -All Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

f. School Calendar change (vote)

Ms. Taylor asks for a motion to take April 23-25 and June 23-24 as makeup days for students due to the
strike

Seconded by Sarah Fox

Ms. Taylor, Mr. Ota, Ms. Fox, Ms. Schaeffner and -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

--- page break ---

g. Coffin School surplus status (possible vote)
« The Retirement of Facilities policy (FCB) is discussed in relation to Coffin School
«The policy calls for a “comprehensive closing study” for any building that may be
considered a service
= It is the recommendation of the facilities subcommittee that this closing study be
completed for the Coffin School property and then take it to the next step of talking
to the town about putting it on a warrant article
= The closing study will be presented at a meeting in January and a vote will be taken
then
h. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
= Sarah Fox-Finance Subcommittee will be meeting the first week back from break
* Sarah Fox-Facilities Subcommittee has had two meetings in the last week and a half
o During the last meeting there were two companies that came and did
presentations on the roof project at the highs school
* Jennifer Schaeffner-Negotiations Subcommittee
o There are still contracts being finalized and as they are finalized they are
being uploaded to the School Committees website
o The contracts still need to be signed but they have already been voted
V. Closing Business
a. New Business-School Committee announcements and requests
b. Correspondence

Meeting is adjourned at 9:36PM by Ms. Schaeffner

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

