Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Thursday December 5, 2024
6:00 PM

Members Present: Jennifer Schaeffner, Sarah Fox, Alison Taylor, Brian Ota, Al Williams
Also Present: Interim Superintendent- John Robidoux, Town Administrator-Thatcher Keezer
Ms. Schaeffner calls the meeting to order at 6:00 PM

], Opening Business
a. Pledge of Allegiance
b. Commendations
* Jennifer Schaeffner makes a statement regarding the events that have occurred over the
last few weeks
= Sarah would like to commend the custodial staff for the work that was done in our
schools during the closure
* John would like to commend John Costantino and his staff for their work during the
closure
c. Public Comment
* Daniel Rosen-31 Lee Street
o Daniel is the father of three Marblehead graduates and the husband of a Middle
School teacher
o Daniel makes a statement regarding what Marblehead could do differently to
ensure that the current superintendent is successful
=" Mary McCariston- Pine Cliff Drive
o Mary makes a statement regarding the students
« Samantha Rosato-Martin Terrace
o Samantha makes a statement regarding the state of the roof at Marblehead High
School
* Kate Thompson-Bubier Road
o Kate makes a statement regarding the Facilities Committee and her
disappointment that they have not met in over a year
d. Student Representative-Ella Venadetta
* Ella expresses how happy the students are to be back together and in school
"— Quarter 2 began last Wednesday and Quarter | Report Cards were sent out
» Senior transcripts were sent to colleges
* Winter Sports have started
«Rehearsals for the school play have started
= Our Co-Ed Acapella group the Jewel Tones have gotten into the New England Voices
Competition

If. District Updates- Superintendent John Robidoux
* John recognizes that getting the students back on track after the closure will take some time but
he is confident that our educators will focus on our students and their success
«There will be adjustments made to the schoo! calendar to account for the make up days



--- page break ---

= Our attorney is currently drafting the full contracts
b. Approve MOA for Custodians |-yr and 3-yr contract (vote)

Ms. Fox asks for a motion to ratify the enclosed document provided by our attorney dated December 4"
Jor both the one-year and the three-year consecutive custodian contracts

Seconded by Mr. Keezer
Mr. Keezer, Mr. Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Fox, Ms Taylor and Ms. Schaeffnner -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 6-0

c. School Calendar change (vote)
« 180 instructional days are required by DESE for every school year
«Any make up days due to snow days or any out of schoo! days need to be made up prior
to June 30%
" We have 10 School days to make up due to the closure
« Superintendent Robidoux shares two proposals and some of the ramifications of these
two proposals
o Proposal A-Utilizing December 23" as a School Day as well as February
Vacation, April Vacation, and one day at the end of the schoo! year on June 23"
o Proposal B- Utilizing December 23" as a School Day as well as February
Vacation, and five days at the end of the school year June 23-27.
* This proposal would also move the graduation date
Opened for Discussion
= The school committee discusses the two proposals put forth by the superintendent
« The committee would like to go with John’s suggestion of voting on December 23" as well as
February break during this meeting
"  Asurvey will then be sent out to regarding April break, the end of the school year and
Saturdays to get input from the community

Ms. Fox asks for a motion to make Monday 12/23/2024, 02/18/2025, 02/19/2025, 02/20/2025 and
02/21/2025 school days

Seconded by Mr. Ota
Mr. Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Fox, Ms Taylor and Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

d. School Committee Goals
" Brian Ota and Alison Taylor outline the School Committee Goals
o Goal 1-Review and update all School Committee Policies/Protocols
o Goal 2-Enhance and Improve SC Communications
o Goal 3-Improve the documentation and communication of the Marblehead Public
School budget process and improve transparency
e. Contract approval: MHS Roof-Gene Raymond Design (vote)
= This contract is for the design and not for the roof itself


--- page break ---

Ms. Schaeffner asks for a motion to approve the contract with Raymond Design Associates for the
Marblehead High School roof

Moved by Mr. Williams, Seconded by Ms. Fox
Mr. Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Fox, Ms Taylor and Ms, Schaeffner -All Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

f. Charter Committee Meeting-12/12/24
= Subcommittee of the Select Board
= They are pursuing the idea of a town charter for Marblehead
= Jennifer Schaeffner and Sarah Fox will be attending this meeting
g. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
* Sarah Fox-Facilities Subcommittee
© Facilities meeting this morning 12/05
© Puta list of improvements for the district together
o As of this morning we are 47% way through the list of improvements
o Saray touches on the Coffin School and there will be an agenda item for the nex
school committee meeting to possibly vote this property as a “surplus” property

Sarah Fox asks for a motion to temporarily assign Jennifer Schaeffner to the Facilities Subcommittee
through mid January

Seconded by Mr. Williams
Mr. Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Fox, Ms Taylor and Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

V. Closing Buisness
a. New Business-School Committee announcements and requests

® None
b. Correspondence
= None

Meeting is adjourned at 8:01 PM by Ms. Schaeffner

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee

