Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Thursday May 16, 2024
7:00PM

Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner, Alison Taylor, Al Williams

Also Present: Dr. Theresa McGuinnes-Interim Superintendent, Mary Delai- Interim Assistant
Superintendent of Finance, Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and
Learning

I. Initial Business

a. Call to Order

Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00PM
Ms. Fox also called the public hearing for school choice for the 2024-2025 School Year to order at 7:00PM
a. Public Hearing for School Choice for the 2024-2025 School Year

« The Ed Reform Act of 1993 and DESE require that each school committee admit non-resident
students under the “School Choice Pro Program” unless the School Committee votes to the contrary
« Dr, McGuinness provides her recommendations to the School Committee regarding the vote
© Deciding factor in whether we participate in the program is enrollment numbers
© Due to the lack of available classroom space Dr. McGuinness recommends that we do not
participate in School Choice Program

Motion to approve that Marblehead Public Schools does not participate in the School Choice Program
for the 2024-2025 School Year

Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Ms. Schaeffner

Mr. Williams, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Schaeffner, Ms. Fox All Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

Ms. Fox closes the hearing on School Choice will close at 7:04PM

b. Commendations
= None
c. Public Comment
« Johnathan Heller-26 Ralph Road, Marblehead ; Sally Shevory-80 Garfield Street, Marblehead
© MEA Co-Presidents are here to discuss the Sick Leave Bank
© The Sick Leave Bank was never ratified by the School Committee after going into
Collective Bargaining
oO They would like to ask the School Committee to make a motion to approve the Sick
Leave Bank
d. Student Representative-Cat Piper
« Students are finishing the second week of AP exams

--- page break ---

= Culture Feast-05/24 from 4:00PM to 7:00PM

= Accapalooza-05/17 at 7:00PM in the MVMS PAC

"Spring Art Exhibition started on 05/14 and runs through 05/22 at Abbott Hall

= The MHS Marching Band will be in the Memorial Day Parade in Marbiehead

* 05/24 the Senior Project “Gallery Walkthrough” will be 05/24 in the MHS Fieldhouse
« Senior Prom will be at the House of Blues in Boston on 05/29

" Scholarship night will be 05/28 in the MHS Fieldhouse

II. District Updates-Dr. Theresa McGuinness
= Special Education Program Review
© 5 Proposals have been reviewed
© Academic Discovery will be completing the review
© An interim report will be available at the end of September and the final report will be
provided by December
= Principal Search Updates
© Glover Principal Search has been re-opened
« Julia Ferreira is continuing to spearhead this search
© Village School Principal Search
« Two interviews have been conducted
a. Youth Risk Behavior Survey-Gina Hart and Julia Ferreira
"  Gina-Clinical Social Worker at Marblehead High School
" This is the third year that this data has been collected
= 85% response rate this year
* Survey is voluntary
« Mass General provides the survey, and it is grant funded
"Gina provides the data on the Protective and Risk Factors
« Gina discusses the current programming that MHS offers to assist in combating some of these
behaviors within our students
* Julia discusses the district programming that is offered to our staff to help assist our students
« Gina and Julia go over next steps and actions to assist our staff, students, and community
members going into the 2024-2025 School year
b. Staff Support Classification Plan Proposal
" Mary Delai goes over the updated Staff Support Classification proposal
© Most administrative staff is currently classified as “clerk”
oO This classification plan will create structure for our support staff
oO The job descriptions were also re-written in accordance with the updated classification
plan
« — The vote fo approve the plan as well as the job descriptions will be posted for the next school
committee meeting
c, FY24 Budget Status Update-Mary Delai
"Mary discusses the projected end of year surplus for FY24 which currently stands at $755,000
“  Pre-payment of next year’s tuitions is discussed which will also assist us in keeping additional
funds in the 2024/2025 budget
"The additional surplus beyond paying for the tuitions will be used to pre-pay special education
out of district placements

Ill, Consent Action and Agenda Items
a. Schedule of Bills (vote)

--- page break ---

Motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $1,365,425.76
Moved by Ms. Schaeffner, Seconded by Mr, Ota

Mr. Williams, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Schaeffner, Ms. Fox All Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

b. Approval of Minutes (vote)

Motion to approve the minutes dated 02/01/24

Moved by Ms. Schaeffner, Seconded by Ms. Taylor

Ms. Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Schaeffer, Ms. Fox All Yes

Mr. Williams has abstained from the vote

Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0 with one abstention

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
a. Superintendent Search Update
« The committee decided to move forward John Robidoux and Barbara Cataldo to the site visit
portion of the interview process
« Barbara Cataldo has withdrawn from the interview process
«The school committee will be visiting John’s current district on 05/22
« After the visit to his district the school committee will be setting up a day that he will be visiting
our district
b. Communications Survey Results
= This item will be moved to the next school committee agenda
c. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates and discussion
= The proposed budget passed at our most recent meeting

V. Closing Business
a. New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests

=" None
b. Correspondence
=" None

c. Adjournment

Motion and vote to meet in Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Law chapter 30A
section 21 (a) for the following purpose:

Purpose (2) to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to
conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel

Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for collective bargaining with the
Marblehead Teachers Association Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit
Paraprofessionals, and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have detrimental effect on the

--- page break ---

bargaining position of the committee with intent not to return to open session at 8:05PM.
Moved by Ms. Schaeffner, Seconded by Mr. Ota
Mr. Williams, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Schaeffner, Ms. Fox All Yes

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead Schoo! Committee
