POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 304A § 20 Act relative to extending certain COVID-19 measures

MEETING NOTICE

adopted during the state of emergency

Marblehead School Committee

DATE POSTED:

)

eV

MA JANG PHI2: 3h

xrrstoreneeonmmmem
asian

Name of Board or Committee

Address: Marblehead High School -- Library at 2 Humphry St. Marblehead MA 01945 |

OR

Zoom Conference join via the web link or Dial in
https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/i/9997549363 1 2pwd=Y¥ OpHWVM2YitBZXNOU2ZyTKI OMzh4dz09

Meeting ID: 999.7549 3631
Password: 873255
Dial in Phone #1 646 931 3860

Thursday

January

18th

2024

7:00 pm

Day of Week _

Month

Date

Year

Time

Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

I, Initial Business
a. Call to Order
b. Commendations

c.. Public Comment
d. Student Representative

If. District Updates — Dr Theresa McGuinness

a. Staffing updates

b. FY25 budget status update

II. Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Biils

b. Approval of Minutes

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

ene of

V. Closing Business

Articles for Annual Town Meeting Warrant
Superintendent Search update
Student Services Audit Discussion
School Committee Vacancy
Subcommittee and Liaison Updates and discussion

a. New Business- School Committee Announcements and Requests

b. Correspondence

(vote)
(vote)

(vote)

(vote)

VI. Motion and vote to meet in executive session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws chapter.30A section

21{a) for the following purpose:



--- page break ---

- Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for collective bargaining with the
Marblehead Education Association Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals,
and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of
the Committce;

‘ Purpose (7) to review, approve, and consider the release of executive session minutes from the following
meeting(s): 12.7.23 and 12.21.23 with intent not to return to open session.

Executive Session Agenda:

I. Review, approve, and consider the release of executive session minutes from the
following executive session meeting(s): 12.7.23 and 12.21.23

ll, Strategy discussion with respect to and in in preparation for collective bargaining with the Marblehead
Education Association Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals, and
Unit Custodians

Hybrid. Meeting Notice: Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person at 2 Humphrey St. Marblehead MA

01945 or by the remote zoom connection provided, Please note that the in-person meeting will not be suspended or
terminated if technological problems interrupt the remote connection.

THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Chairperson: Sarah Fox
Posted by: Sarah Fox
Date: 1/16/2024



--- page break ---

)

Te Gude tise OMAK

qt JAN 16 PHI2: 38

MEETING NOTICE

POSTED.IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 30A § 20 Act relative to extending certain COVID-19 measures
adopted during the state of emergency

Marblehead School Committee

Name of Board or Committee

Address: Marblehead High School — Library at 2 Humphry St. Marblehead MA 01945

OR

Zoom Conference join via the web link or Dial in
https://marbleheadschools-org.zoom.us/i/9997549363 1 Mwd=¥ OpHW VM2YitBZXNOU2ZyTkIOMzh4dz09

Meeting ID: 999.:7549 3631
Password: 873255
Dial in Phone #1 646 931 3860

Thursday. January 18th 2024 19:00pm

Day of Week Month Date Year Time

I,

IK,

Vi

Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

Initial Business
a, Callto Order
b. Commendations
c. Public Comment
d. Student Representative

District Updates - Dr Theresa McGuinness
a. Staffing updates
b. FY25 budget status update

Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills (vote)

b. Approval of Minutes (vote)
. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

a, Articles for Annual Town Meeting Warrant (vote)
b. Superintendent Search update

c. Student Services Audit Discussion

d. School Committee Vacancy (vote)
e. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates and discussion

Closing Business
a, New Business- School Committee Announcements and Requests
b, Correspondence

Motion and vote to meet in executive session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A section
21(a) for the following purpose:



--- page break ---

- Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for collective bargaining with the
Marblehead Education Association Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors; Unit Paraprofessionals,
and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have a detrimental effect ‘on the bargaining position of
the Committee;

‘ Purpose (7) to review, approve, and consider the release of executive session minutes from the following
meeting(s): 12.7,.23 and 12.21.23 with intent not to return to open session.

Executive Session Agenda:

1. Review, approve, and consider the release of executive session minutes from the
following executive session meeting(s): 12.7.23 and 12.21.23

Il, Strategy discussion with respect to and in in preparation for collective bargaining with the Marbiehcad
Education Association Unit A, Unit Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals, and
Unit Custodians

Hybrid Meeting Notice: Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person at 2 Humphrey St. Marblehead MA
01945 or by the remote zoom connection provided, Please note that the in-person meeting will not be suspended or
terminated if technological problems interrupt the remote connection.

THIS AGENDA JS SUBJECT TO CHANGE
Chairperson: Sarah Fox
Posted by: Sarah Fox
Date: 1/16/2024



--- page break ---

Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-3140

Dr. Theresa B. McGuinness Ms. Julia Ferreira Ms. Michelle Cresta
Interim Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of Assistant Superintendent of
Teaching & Learning Finance & Operations
MEMORANDUM
TO: Marblehead School Committee
FROM: Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent for Finance & Operations
CC: Theresa McGuinness, Interim Superintendent
DATE: January 17, 2024
RE: Schedule of Bills for Approval

Included in this packet are the following Schedules of Bills for your consideration. The schedules and
invoices have been uploaded to the shared drive.

Schedule Amount
24577 $ 13,647.97
24580 $ 24,604.53
24586 $ 83,415.69
24593 $ 8,535.29
24594 $ 69,897.83
24618 $ 5,885.00
24626 $ 72,223.77
24627 $ 4,086.00
24629 $ 22,371.16

TOTAL | $ 304,667.24

Suggested Motion:
Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $304,667.24.



--- page break ---

Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-3140

Dr. Theresa B. McGuinness Ms. Julia Ferreira Ms. Michelle Cresta
Interim Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of Assistant Superintendent of
Teaching & Learning Finance & Operations
Memorandum

To: Marblehead School Committee

From: Theresa B. McGuinness, Ed.D, Interim Superintendent
RE: | Superintendent’s Updates

Date: January 18, 2024

Staffing Updates
Glover School Leadership Update

{ want to let you know that Principal Hope Doran has resigned as of Friday, January 19th to pursue a
career opportunity in another school district. We appreciate Mrs. Doran's service and the District
wishes her well as she pursues other opportunities in the field of education.

We are grateful to the Interim Principal at Glover School, Mr. Dan Richards, who will continue in that
role for the remainder of this school year.

MHS

MHS Principal, Michele Carlson, and her team are conducting interviews next week for an Interim
Assistant Principal who, when selected, will also remain in that position until the end of this school
year.

Upcoming Searches
e Assistant Superintendent of Finance & Operations - Posting next week for March start
e Glover School Principal - Posting in February/early March for July 1 start
e Interim Director of Student Services - Presently posted; Interviews being scheduled

Student Services Department
Student Services Updates

After much collaboration and planning across the district over nearly two weeks, | have built a
framework to carry us through the transitional window before welcoming an Interim Director of
Student Services in the coming weeks. The MVMS Student Services Team Chair, Ms. Ashlee Leibman,
will work closely with principals, special educators, the Assistant Superintendent of T & L, and me in
a temporary role as the Student Services Transitional Coordinator. Ms. Leibman will coordinate the
priority needs within the Student Services Department with the collective support of several staff
members. The expertise and willingness of several special educators and administrators to accept
added responsibility, demonstrates how vested our educators are when it comes to committing to the



--- page break ---

success of our district's mission to support all of our students, as we work through challenges. MPS has
an excellent staff! In addition:

> The search process is underway for an Interim Director of Student Services

> Our Student Services Steering Committee met twice focusing on transition needs and to plan
upcoming professional development.

> Our fine Principals are working closely with their Team Chairs in support of our students.

> More updates and contacts are forthcoming.

Marblehead Boys Varsity Basketball Team @TD Garden

The Marblehead Boys Varsity Basketball team played Salem High at TD Garden last Sunday afternoon
in the Andrew James Lawson 2024 Invitational. It was a memorable afternoon and an exciting game!
Although the Magicians lost 66-61, it was an incredible experience that was very well attended by the
greater Marblehead community. Postgame, the generous Friends of Marblehead Basketball hosted a
reception for Marblehead families, friends, students, and alumni for a post-game celebration at TD
Garden’s Putnam Club, all in the spirit of supporting the Heather Walker/Dana Farber Fund. The
turnout was great! For some additional photos, checkout this recent Marblehead Current article on
the game.

Some Notable Dates

February 1 - MPS SC Meeting @7:00 p.m.
February 15 - MPS SC Meeting @7:00 p.m.
February 19 - No School, Presidents’ Day
February 20 - 23 - No School, February Recess

February 26 - Students Return from Recess



--- page break ---

DRAFT

Specifications for Special Education Audit

Marblehead Public Schools is seeking full Special Education program audit. Marblehead is a small, coastal
community with a current enrollment of 2,622 students PK-12 across five school buildings. Students with
disabilities are 21.2% of the current enrollment; 31.3% are classified as High Needs.

Introduction

The District is seeking a comprehensive review of its special education programming for ages 3-22. As
required by IDEA, the District offers a full continuum of special education programming for multiple areas
of disability. We provide services in partial inclusion and subseparate settings for students whose primary
needs are related to a language-based learning disability, other significant learning disability, autism
spectrum disorders, and social/emotional needs. This review will provide specific feedback related to staffing
levels, staff training, processes and procedures, and specialized instruction.

Background

The Department of Student Services has made increasing and improving inclusive opportunities a priority
over the last four years. While there have been significant increases in the number of students accessing
more inclusion, a number of areas for growth continue to be identified. Current data suggests that one of our
most significant needs are related to the continuum of services for students with language-based learning
disabilities, Investments in professional development for some teachers in this strand has already begun.
Additionally, we have restructured administrative staff to better support these needs.

Another area of need are students with emotional and behavioral needs. Additional investments in
professional development have begun for teachers and staff supporting students with significant therapeutic
needs. This includes specific training for school adjustment counselors, on-going seminars for teachers, and
additional curricular materials.

Over the last two years, Marblehead Public Schools has sought a budget override from the community on
election day and, each time, the ballot measure has been defeated. This evaluation will, in part, provide
information that helps establish both short and long terms funding needs. Recommendations from this
program review will inform program planning, establish budget priorities, and suggest appropriate staffing
levels district-wide.

Scope of Inquiry

Essential Questions to be answered in evaluation include, but are not limited to:
e Are programs staffed at adequate ratios?



--- page break ---

Do staff have appropriate training beyond a DESE license?

Are opportunities for inclusion being maximized? If not, what additional supports are necessary?

Are general education settings appropriately prepared for students with disabilities?

What professional development is needed for general education staff and special education staff? Is

the type dependent upon the profile of the students with disabilities?

e Is the rate of initial referrals (overall and at different grade levels) consistent with comparable school
districts?

e What are the general education interventions in place?

e What does MTSS look like across the district?

e Are Section 504 plan eligibility processes and plans being implemented in accordance with federal
guidance? What do the overall numbers look like?

¢ Is the special education administrative structure optimized to support staff and students?

e Are the types of specialized instruction being utilized appropriately selected?

e Are the structures of the program strands optimal for student success, as well as opportunities to

tuition-in students from neighboring districts?

e*e 8 @

Selection Criteria
MPS is seeking an experienced evaluation team with an established track record of providing comprehensive

and actionable feedback to public school districts, Proposals should include a methodology, credentials and
experience of team members, timeline, and estimated cost.

TO BE DETERMINED: |

BID PROCESS:
Invitation to Bid (price based) with minimum qualifications

OR

Request for Proposal (selection based on criteria rating, then price proposal opened after rating determined)

ESTIMATED TIMELINE:
Earliest possible Bid Document Release: 1/29/2024
Bids Due: 2/20/2024 or later

Contract Award: Any time after review/evaluation completed



--- page break ---

Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-3140

Dr. Theresa B. McGuinness Ms. Julia Ferreira Ms. Michelle Cresta
Interim Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of Assistant Superintendent of
Teaching & Learning Finance & Operations
MEMORANDUM
TO: Marblehead School Committee
FROM: Michelle Cresta, Assistant Superintendent for Finance & Operations
CC: Theresa McGuinness, Interim Superintendent
DATE: January 17, 2024
RE: Warrant Articles

The deadline to submit warrant articles to be placed on the Annual Town Meeting warrant is January 26,

2024.

Each year we submit a request to reauthorize revolving funds established under MGL C44, $533 4. The
funds are as follows:

1.

Reauthorization: Special Education Revolving Fund {under MGL C€ 44, S53 E%)

In the amount of $500,000 in anticipated expenditures in fiscal year 2025, for the use of School
Committee authorized expenses within the scope and conditions pertaining to this fund, Revenue
sources into this fund are from tuition collected for the attendance of out of district students placed
in Marblehead Public School Special Education Programming. Said funds are to be expended on
costs directly related to the Marblehead Public Schools special education programs serving
Marblehead students.

Reauthorization to establish a Transportation Revolving Fund (under MGLC 44, S 53E %)
In the amount of $25,000 in anticipated expenditures in fiscal year 2025 for the use of School

Committee authorized transportation expenses within the scope and conditions pertaining to this
fund. Revenue sources into this fund will be from parent fees collected for the transportation of
students enrolled in the voluntary Pay to Ride bus program. Said funds are to be expended on costs
directly related to school transportation.

In addition, the School Committee can request placeholders for articles. Three potential placeholder
articles for discussion are as follows:

3.

School Buildings Capital Needs
(PLACEHOLDER ARTICLE - Draft Wording)

To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the purpose of making renovations
and extraordinary repairs, including all professional feasibility studies, design, architectural and



--- page break ---

engineering fees, or significant capital expenditures for the Brown, Glover, Village, Veterans Middle,
Marblehead High School, the school building known as the Eveleth School, and/or the school
building known as the Coffin School and their respective school grounds, and to raise the money for
these purposes by the issue of bonds or notes, by the transfer of an unused/prior appropriation and
borrowing authority for such purposes, by the passage of a one-time capital exclusion and/or debt
exclusion or in any other manner, or take any other action relative thereto.

Sponsored by the School Committee

4. School Department Capital Needs
(PLACEHOLDER ARTICLE ~ Draft Wording)

To see if the Town will vote to appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of money for
school department capital needs, and to raise the money for these purposes by the issue of bonds or
notes, by the transfer of an unused/prior appropriation and borrowing authority for such purposes,
by the passage of a one-time capital exclusion and/or debt exclusion or in any other manner, or
take any other action relative thereto.

Sponsored by the School Committee

5. School Department Supplemental Appropriation
(PLACEHOLDER ARTICLE — Draft Wording)

To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of
money to supplement the School Department’s operating budget for fiscal year 2024, contingent
upon the passage of a Proposition 2 4, so called, ballot question, or take any action relative thereto.
Sponsored by the School Committee.

The two revolving articles will be submitted to the Town for placement on the warrant. If the School
Committee would like to submit any of the placeholder articles, number 3, 4, and 5 above) for inclusion on
the town meeting warrant, please let me know and I will submit them on behalf of the School Committee.



--- page break ---

File: BDE
SUBCOMMITTEES OF THE SCHOOL COMMITTEE

The School Committee shall appoint members to subcommittees at their annual organizational meeting
for a period of one year. These subcommittees may be created for a specific purpose and to make
recommendations for Committee action.

l.

The subcommittee will be established through action of the Committee.

2. The Committee Chair, subject to approval by the Committee, will appoint the subcommittee chair
and its members.
3. The subcommittee will be provided with a list of its functions and duties.
4. The subcommittee may make recommendations for Committee action, but it may not act for the
School Committee.
5. All subcommittees of the School Committee are subject to the provisions of the Open Meeting
Law.
6. A subcommittee will be dissolved by the Committee upon completion of its assignment, or it may
be dissolved by a vote of the Committee at any time.
SOURCE: MASC
LEGAL REF-:: M.G.L. 30A:18-25
CROSS REF:: BEC, Executive Sessions

Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18



--- page break ---

ngland School Development Council
24 Lard Road, Marlborough, MA 01752 = Tel: 508-481-9444 = www.nesdec.arg

January 5, 2024

Michelle L. Cresta, Assistant Superintendent for Finance & Operations
Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road

Marblehead, MA 01945

Dear Ms, Cresta,

I am pleased to respond to your request for information relative to assisting in the search for a
Superintendent for Marblehead Public Schools. As a NESDEC affiliate, Marblehead is
entitled to a 20% discount on our search services.

The enclosed proposal outlines our search process. I hope this information will give you an
idea of the scope and breadth of a NESDEC Search. As you review our proposal, you will note
that some items may require greater specification after the search begins. These specifications
would be made through discussion with and approval of the School Committee.

We are committed to an effective search process that will provide Marblehead with a
Superintendent who will meet the needs and expectations of the School Committee and the
community, We thank you for considering NESDEC to assist in your district’s upcoming
search.

Very truly yours,

David DeRuosi, Jr., Ed.
Executive Director

NSDC

National School Development Council



--- page break ---

ABOUT NESDEC

OVERVIEW OF NESDEC’S SEARCH ASSISTANCE
The New England School Development Council (NESDEC) is pleased to submit this proposal to
Marblehead Public Schools describing the services we would provide in a superintendent search.

NESDEC’s search assistance includes several components designed to attract well-qualified
candidates.

e An announcement process, which includes print and electronic communication
with our exclusive regional and national networks.

e An active regional and national recruitment component designed to provide high-
performing candidates.

e A consultant supported by a region-wide search staff with direct experience as a
Superintendent of Schools.

QUALIFICATIONS

Originally established at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, NESDEC, now a stand-
alone, not-for-profit corporation, has been serving New England school districts since 1946.
NESDEC’s Executive Search Program was started with the specific objective of broadening the
base of highly talented candidates available to school systems when they need to fill an
administrative vacancy. Since the inception of the program, we have conducted well over six
hundred successful executive searches throughout New England.

In deciding who might best provide assistance, we hope you would consider that NESDEC is a
comprehensive educational organization. In addition to executive searches, we offer services in
the areas of planning and management, professional development, and research and
development.

EXECUTIVE SEARCH TAILORED TO DISTRICT

Each NESDEC executive search is designed around the client’s specific needs and expectations.
Before initiating an executive search, NESDEC recommends that the first order of business is
meeting with the School Committee to ensure that all the elements of the search expected by
the Committee are included and that the timeline is constructed so as to accommodate the
agreed-upon search activities.



--- page break ---

PROPOSER’S APPROACH AND PLAN

The Scope of Services would be provided by NESDEC Executive Director, Dr. David
DeRuosi (resume attached), who would do the following:

A, DEVELOP A SCHEDULE FOR THE SUPERINTENDENT SEARCH

The NESDEC consultant would confer with the School Committee to develop an event schedule/
timeline for the entire process. The schedule would detail the major tasks in the search process
and delineate the respective responsibilities of the consultant and the School Committee.

**Please Note: In addition to being held in-person, meetings arranged for this
executive search may be conducted via videoconference or telephone conference
call if deemed advisable by the parties.

B. PUBLICIZE VACANCY

1. NESDEC would prepare a personalized informational letter (one page) describing the
position, the community, and the school district. The School Committee and/or a
representative would provide the input for the letter and would approve the final copy.
The letter and any additional contents would fit into a regular No. 10 business envelope
(4 4/e" X 9 V2"), up to one-ounce total weight. NESDEC would have the letter printed on
school district or NESDEC stationery as selected by the School Committee.

2. NESDEC would prepare a customized application form which would include a permission
statement for release and verification of records.

3. NESDEC would mail the informational letter announcing the vacancy and requesting
nominations to the NESDEC/NSDC (Nationa! School Development Council) Recruiting
Network including:

e Superintendents, assistant superintendents and job-related personnel in
Massachusetts

« Member communities of the New England School Development Council

e Superintendents, assistant superintendents, and job-related personnel in selected
school districts throughout New England, New York, New Jersey and
Pennsylvania with characteristics similar to Marblehead

e Executive Directors of study councils (like NESDEC) affiliated with the National
School Development Council

e Placement offices of colleges and universities throughout the nation that prepare
school administrators

e Selected educational leadership professors throughout New England
e Other colleges and institutions as suggested by the School Committee
e Officers of the Suburban School Superintendents (National)

e Selected Executive Directors of state superintendent and school board
associations in the United States



--- page break ---

ADVERTISING

. NESDEC would place an advertisement on SchoolSpring. This online, national
advertisement would run for approximately 30 days and would be included at _no
additional cost to the District.

. NESDEC would place an advertisement in “Top School Jobs,” the online advertising
service of Education Week. This national advertisement would run for approximately 30
days and would be included at no additional cost to the District.

. NESDEC would place an announcement in the “Job Bulletin” section of the American
Association of Schoo! Administrators (AASA) website. This online, national
announcement would run for approximately 30 days and would be included at_no
additional cost to the District.

. NESDEC would place an announcement on the “School Leadership Jobs” page on the
School Leadership 2.0 (SL20) website. This online, regional announcement would run for
approximately 40 days and would be included at no additional cost to the District.

. NESDEC would discuss with the School Committee options for fee-based advertising of
the vacancy in selected venues.

. NESDEC would prepare newspaper copy for use in advertisements as directed by the
School Committee, if requested.

ELECTRONIC OUTREACH

. NESDEC would announce the vacancy and provide information through the NESDEC
website, www.nesdec.org. The application would be available online as well.

. NESDEC would announce the vacancy and provide information through the National
School Development Council, giving the announcement additional national exposure.

. NESDEC would place announcements in assorted superintendent/school board
association websites.

. NESDEC would prepare a customized electronic announcement of the vacancy and send
it via email to:

e member communities of the New England School Development Council

e superintendents, assistant superintendents, and job-related personnel in
Massachusetts

e selected New England, New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania superintendents
and job-related personnel in school districts with similar characteristics to
Marblehead

e other selected members of the NESDEC/NSDC National Recruiting Network



--- page break ---

E. REGIONAL AND NATIONAL RECRUITMENT OF CANDIDATES

Using its proprietary network, NESDEC recruits at the state, regional and national levels.
Although NESDEC is a nationally recognized search firm, our national reach is further enhanced
through our association with the National School Development Council (NSDC).

NESDEC would actively recruit candidates for the position from its network of educational
leaders representing school study councils nationwide, urban and suburban school
superintendents, professors of educational administration and national professional
associations.

F. ASSIST IN SCREENING APPLICATIONS

1, The consultant would develop with the School Committee a process for the screening of
candidates. Since there are several alternatives, the process can be tailored to meet the
needs of the School Committee.

2. If a Screening Committee is to be used, NESDEC would suggest various models and
membership for the Committee.

G. ASSIST IN INTERVIEWS OF CANDIDATES

1. The consultant would conduct a workshop with the School Committee/Screening
Committee to assist them in the interviewing and selection process. The consultant
would assist in the preparation of questions, in the development of rating scales, and in
the planning of interviewing techniques. At the conclusion of this workshop, NESDEC
would provide the Screening Committee with secure access to the dossier on each of the
candidates via NESDEC’s proprietary executive search website.

2. Although the consultant would not attend the screening interviews, he would be
available to debrief with the School Committee/Screening Committee and the candidates
after each round of interviews. The consultant would continue to assist during the
interview process, as requested.

3. Once the Search Committee has determined the finalists, the consultant would conduct
credential verification and additional reference checks and would assist members of the
School Committee in making independent reference checks.

4. NESDEC would assist with arrangements for finalists’ interviews and in developing
further interactions/exchanges with the school district and the community.

5. NESDEC would assist the School Committee in the final selection process, as requested,
including the development of an “Agreement in Principle” with each of the finalists to
discuss the terms and conditions of an offer before the selection.

H. ADMINISTER ALL SEARCH DETAILS

1. During the application process, NESDEC would respond to questions from interested
candidates and direct them to the informational letter and application as requested.



--- page break ---

2, NESDEC would receive all applications at its headquarters.
3. NESDEC would create and maintain candidate files.

4. NESDEC would check all applications to determine they are complete, and if not
complete, follow up with the potential candidate so that all material might be received
by the closing date.

5. NESDEC would communicate with unsuccessful candidates at appropriate stages during
the search process. Once the School Committee has selected the new Superintendent,
NESDEC wouid inform the unsuccessful candidates and other groups in our network
about the School Committee’s choice.

I. MAINTAIN ON-GOING COMMUNICATION WITH THE SCHOOL COMMITTEE

NESDEC’s intent is to keep the Schoo} Committee informed about what is occurring at each
stage of the search process. The consultant would confer with the School Committee/Screening
Committee as needed throughout the search. The consultant would communicate regularly by
telephone, text, email and/or videoconference, and would provide progress reports to the
Chairperson and/or the designated liaison.

J. SEARCH DESIGN FLEXIBILITY
Please note: NESDEC has the capacity to design a search around the Schoo] Committee’s
specific needs in order to accommodate such things as: desired timeline, degree of community

involvement, and/or cost.

K. LANGUAGE TRANSLATION SERVICES

Please note: This proposal does not include language translation services of any kind. It is
assumed that this type of assistance would be the responsibility of the District/municipality.

However, if language translation services are required, NESDEC would coordinate with the local
district-assigned translator to ensure the inclusion of members of the community in need of this
service.

L. WARRANTY

The search would be deemed completed upon the appointment of the new Superintendent to
the position. If, after due consideration, the School Committee determines that it does not wish
to appoint any of the candidates who have applied for the position, NESDEC would conduct a
follow-up search for the same position and would provide consulting and support services at no
cost except for advertising and search related expenses.

If a candidate chosen as the result of a NESDEC executive search should leave the position
either voluntarily or involuntarily for any reason other than retirement or a transfer/appointment
in the school system or transfer/appointment to a position in the municipality within a two-year
period of the initial appointment date, NESDEC would provide free of charge consulting and



--- page break ---

support services comparable to those of the initial search, on a one-time basis, exclusive of
advertising and related expenses, to conduct a new search for the same position.

M. NESDEC AFFILIATION

Marblehead Public Schools is a NESDEC affiliate and, therefore, entitled to a 20%
discount on our consulting fee.

N. FEE and PAYMENT SCHEDULE

Our professional fee to Marblehead Public Schools for the search described above would be
$7,760 ($9,700 less the NESDEC affiliate discount of 20%, or $1,940). One-half of
this amount, $3,880, would be due and payable upon the signing of an Agreement. One-half,
$3,880, would be due and payable upon the presentation of the dossiers (G-1). The
professional fee includes not only the services specifically described above, but also the
secretarial and clerical services performed at the NESDEC office,

Search related costs, which must be borne by the School Committee include: printing,
photocopying, telephone, postage, consultant travel expenses and consumable supplies. The
fixed cost of these expenses would be $1,560, billed in four monthly payments of $390.

Fixed Consulting Fee $7,760
Fixed Expenses $1,560
TOTAL $9,320

Expenses related to candidate travel, as determined by the School Committee or its designee,
are directly billed to the District/School Committee. NESDEC can assist in the development of a
budget for this item if requested.

Additional Scope
Additional scope of work, if requested by the district and agreed to in advance by NESDEC,
would be performed at the rate of $195.00 per consultant hour, plus reasonable expenses.



--- page break ---

ADDITIONAL FEE-BASED OPTIONS

In addition to the services detailed in this search proposal, NESDEC has the capacity to offer
supplementary fee-based options at discounted rates, if purchased as part of the search. (If
these options are purchased independently of the search, the discounted rates quoted below do

not apply.)

1. Conduct a Community-wide Needs Assessment

a. NESDEC would meet with the School Committee to develop a plan for assessing the
needs of the system as seen by a cross-section of staff, students, parents and other
community groups determined by the School Committee.

b, The consultant would meet with school/community representatives in focus groups as
determined by the School Committee to receive their input regarding the new
superintendent. The focus groups would be scheduled as mutually agreed by the
NESDEC consultant and the School Committee. If requested by the School Committee,
the focus groups would be augmented through telephone/videoconference interviews of
selected officials, educational leaders, citizens, and others in the community.

c. Incorporating the input provided through the focus groups and interviews, the consultant
would conduct a facilitated conversation with the School Committee to discuss the
qualities sought in the new Superintendent and the priorities for his/her/their attention
once appointed.

d. The results of the facilitated conversation would be developed into a Successful
Candidate Profile and criteria to be used as applications are screened and candidates
interviewed.

Additional cost: $425 per group

2. Online Survey
NESDEC would seek the views of school district and community stakeholders/
representatives regarding the characteristics and competencies desired in the new
Superintendent, using its proprietary web-based Community Input Questionnaire.

Additional cost: $750

3. Entry Planning Consultation

NESDEC would invite the new Superintendent to confer with one of our consultants to
discuss the transition process particularly as it relates to his/her/their Entry Plan.

Additional cost: Quote furnished upon request



--- page break ---

4. Team/Governance Retreat and Follow-up

The search consultant or one of NESDEC’s team-building consultants would conduct a
half-day workshop with the new Superintendent and the School Committee. The goal of the
workshop and follow-up would be to build the foundation for an effective and collaborative
approach to school district governance.

Additional cost: $1,250

. Long-term Executive Coaching

NESDEC has the capacity to provide sustained coaching services for the new
Superintendent. These fee-based services vary in length and are tailored to meet the needs
of the new Superintendent and the district.

Additional cost: Quote furnished upon request

Search Brochure

NESDEC would prepare a personalized brochure describing the position, the community, and
the school district. The School Committee and/or representatives would provide the input
for the brochure and would approve the final copy. NESDEC would have the brochure
printed in a color, format and style selected by the School Committee.

Additional cost: Quote furnished upon request

Fee-Based Hardcopy Advertising

NESDEC would place a hardcopy advertisement in Education Week, which would run for one
week,

Additional cost: Quote furnished upon request; billed at cost



--- page break ---

NESDEC EXECUTIVE SEARCH PERSONNEL

David DeRuosi, Ed.D.
Executive Director

David DeRuosi holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Speech and Hearing from Northeastern
University, a master’s degree in School Administration from Salem State University, and a
doctorate in Urban Leadership from the University of Massachusetts Boston. Prior to his work
with NESDEC, Dr. DeRuosi spent 34 years in the field of education. Dr. DeRuosi began his
career as a moderate special needs teacher in Winthrop, MA, then moved on to Salem, MA
where he taught a behavioral self-contained classroom and worked with the Massachusetts
District Attorney's Office to start a conflict resolution program in the Salem Public Schools. His
move into administration began by serving as Vice Principal in the cities of Chelsea and Revere,
Principal of Revere High School, and as Assistant Superintendent of Pupil Personnel Services in
Revere Public Schools. He then served as Superintendent of Schools in both Malden and
Saugus, MA, and most recently as Interim Superintendent in the Raymond School District (SAU
#33) in New Hampshire. In addition to his role as superintendent, Dr. DeRuosi has been a
presenter at conferences on topics ranging from conflict resolution, negotiations, and trauma’s
impact on students, to leadership and creating and sustaining change.



--- page break ---

EDUCATION:

PROFESSIONAL
EXPERIENCE:

DAVID DERUOSI, Jr., Ed.D.
16 Seabrook Road
Salisbury, MA 01952

Doctor of Education
University of Massachusetts Boston, MA
Leadership in Urban Schools

Master of Education
Salem State College, MA
School Administration

Bachelor of Science
Northeastern University, MA
Speech and Hearing

Executive Director
Associate Director
New England School Development Council

Interim Superintendent of Schools
Raymond School District (SAU #33)
Raymond, NH

Superintendent of Schools
Saugus Public Schools
Saugus, MA

Superintendent of Schools
Malden Public Schools
Malden, MA

Assistant Superintendent of Pupil Personnel Services
Principal, Revere High School

Assistant Principal, Beachmont School

Assistant Principal, Garfield School

Revere Public Schools

Revere, MA

Assistant Principal, Williams Middle School
Chelsea Public Schools
Chelsea, MA

Conflict Intervention Coordinator, Collins Middle School
Special Education Teacher, Middle School West

Salem Public Schools

Salem, MA

Special Education Teacher, Winthrop Middle School
Winthrop Public Schools
Winthrop, MA

10



--- page break ---

A PARTIAL LIST OF RECENT NEW ENGLAND SEARCHES CONDUCTED BY NESDEC

ACTON-BOXBOROUGH RSD, MA ~- SUPERINTENDENT

16 Charter Road 978-264-4700
Acton, MA 01720

Diane Baum, School Committee and Chair of Screening Committee

BOURNE, MA — SUPERINTENDENT

36 Lynn Road 508-759-0660
Bourne, MA 02532

Chris Hyldburg, Chair, School Committee

DEDHAM, MA — SUPERINTENDENT

100 Whiting Avenue 781-310-1000

Dedham, MA 02026

Mayanne Briggs, School Committee 617-969-6200 x251
DIGHTON-REHOBOTH REGIONAL SCHOOL DISTRICT, MA — SUPERINTENDENT
2700 Regional Road 508-252-5000

North Dighton, MA 02764

Aaron Morse, School Committee 508-238-6147

ESSEX WESTFORD SCHOOL DISTRICT, VT — HIGH SCHOOL PRINCIPAL
58 Founders Road 802-878-8168

Essex Junction, VT 05452

Beth Cobb, Superintendent

GRANBY, CT — SUPERINTENDENT

15-B North Granby Road 860-844-5250
Granby, CT 06035

Melissa Migliaccio, Board of Education

HAMPDEN-WILBRAHAM REGIONAL SCHOOL DISTRICT — SUPERINTENDENT
621 Main Street 413-596-3884

Wilbraham, MA 01095

Michal Boudreau, Chair, School Committee

HEBRON, CT — SUPERINTENDENT

580 Gilead Street 860-228-2577
Hebron, CT 06248

Heather Petit, Chair, Board of Education

HINGHAM, MA — SUPERINTENDENT

220 Central Street 781-741-1500
Hingham, MA 02043

Michelle Ayer (Chair), Liza O'Reilly, & Kerry Ni, School Committee

11



--- page break ---

HUDSON, MA — SUPERINTENDENT

155 Apsley Street 978-567-6100
Hudson, MA 01749

Steven Smith, Chair, School Committee

MADISON, CT — SUPERINTENDENT

10 Campus Drive 203-245-6300
Madison, CT 06443

Katie Stein, Board of Education

MARBLEHEAD, MA — SUPERINTENDENT

9 Widger Road 781-639-3140
Marblehead, MA 01945

Sarah Gold (Chair), Sarah Fox, & Jennifer Schaeffner, School Committee

MAYNARD, MA — SUPERINTENDENT

3-R Tiger Drive 978-897-2222
Maynard, MA 01754

Mary Brannelly & Lydia Clancy, Schoo! Committee

MSAD #51/RSU #51, ME ~ SUPERINTENDENT

357 Tuttle Road 207-829-5555
Cumberland Center, ME 04021

Karen Campbell, Chair, Board of Directors

NEWBURYPORT, MA — SUPERINTENDENT
70 Low Street 978-465-4456

Newburyport, MA 01950
Mayor Donna Holaday (Chair) & Cheryl Sweeney, School Committee

NEWINGTON, CT — SUPERINTENDENT

131 Cedar Street 860-667-2000
Newington, CT 06111

Joshua C. Shulman, Board Chairperson

NORTH KINGSTOWN, RI — SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS

100 Romano Vineyard Way, Ste 120 401-268-6403
North Kingstown, RI 02852

Dr. Erin Earle, Chair, School Committee

NORTH MIDDLESEX RSD, MA — SUPERINTENDENT

45 Main Street 978-597-8713
Pepperell, MA 01463

Randee Rusch, Chair, School Committee

NORWICH, CT — SUPERINTENDENT

90 Town Street 860-823-6284
Norwich, CT 06360

Dr. Yvette Jacaruso, Chair, Board of Education

12



--- page break ---

PUTNAM, CT — SUPERINTENDENT

152 Woodstock Avenue 860-963-6900
Putnam CT 06260

Michael Morrill, Chair, Board of Education

REGION #19, CT — SUPERINTENDENT

Edwin O. Smith High School, 1235 Storrs Road 860-487-0877
Storrs-Mansfield, CT 06268

Jim Mark, Chair, Board of Education

SAUGUS, MA — SUPERINTENDENT

23 Main Street 781-231-5000
Saugus, MA 01906
Peter Manoogian, School Committee 781-820-5690

SAU #39, AMHERST, MONT VERNON, SQUHEGAN, NH — SUPERINTENDENT
1 School Street 603-673-2690

Amherst, NH 03031

Stephen O'Keefe, Chair, School Board

SCARBOROUGH, ME — SUPERINTENDENT

259 US Route 1 207-730-4100
Scarborough, ME 04074

Ms. Donna Beeley, Chair, Board of Education

SHARON, MA —- SUPERINTENDENT

75 Mountain Street 781-784-1570
Sharon, MA 02067

Veronica Wiseman, School Committee

SHREWSBURY, MA — ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT OF FINANCE & OPERATIONS

100 Maple Avenue 508-841-8400
Shrewsbury, MA 01545
Dr. Joseph Sawyer, Superintendent 401-233-0727

SUFFIELD, CT — SUPERINTENDENT

350 Mountain Road 860-668-3800
Suffield, CT 06078

Susan Mercik Davis, Chair, Board of Education

TRUMBULL, CT —- SUPERINTENDENT

6254 Main Street 203-452-4300
Trumbull, CT 06611

Lucinda Timpanelli, Chair, Board of Education

13



--- page break ---

--yzoz ‘ge Auenuer
Bunesyy aayjiuuioy sooyos

S]OOYIS II|Gnd pesysjqie\



--- page break ---

UOIIILU SG L$ jo uoyonpes 2 2 104 suonisod 6ul Weys €e peyeuiwije JesAjse] 0
SJOAS] SOIAIOS s yenns. uo © UO} Zee Ajayeuxosdde jo syno SsINDSI IAA O°
| Ele LES br$ = yeHpng vCAA jUSLIND ®
AQ] Supuny yueuuno au) 6} fenbs JO 9SO|/QD - JeNPNES S8d|AJES peonped

ee Soh E SS, | juaweoe|des olempsey seyndwioo
- pue ‘sigyoee} aynyysqns jueueued * sjuepnis 404 Buyers yioddns jeuonippe epnjoul spseyy le

spesu peyluap! A\jeiseds snid seojes [eAo7 -Jebpng pase Spoon

'Z0Z/08/9 Buiidxe. sjoesjuco eAey UoIUM ‘syun BuiureBieg ie 10, WIOD peuuyui sepnjou; oo
| suonisod Buy INS]S poyeuitje A[SNOIASJd JO UIN}el JO SS}eIUI MEU ONY oo
| 000'000'Lr$ = peyeulsy ©
e-seBueuo MOU ON- - JeDpPNng SSdiAINS [SA97

Pees Old 4 6ueg sye6png SZA4


--- page break ---

ee eee ~ suiesBoud uoneonpe jeioads panoidde
00Z UeU}. s10W Oy seold yoRIn, Bumes 10) 5 atqsuodsas¢ st (aso) UOISIAIG S8DIAIOS JeUudHeledO ou. Le

SSPSJOUI yOSL$. :s}S0D Ann
dal ‘uonevodsue, |L }UIsIG {0 jNO
HBO E8e9Oul 821 ,GSO ©

- 9SB90U! 11 H0028 ‘UOHIN| JOMISIG JO 1NO

. 6 Seg then hy nS e6bem
-uinulu ueu} S$so/ ole SIOIOM euielajeo pue sjeuoissejoudeved Joy soyeu Aed Ayinoy awios oo
— _Uoos Bujuulbeq suojenobeu ‘ujge eunr BuLidxe |je sjoejuoo uolu, O°

000'S87'L$ “WIOD %z pue sdelg 0
me (sds pue y1O9) Buyeis

sieaud e6png SZ,


--- page break ---

(‘oye ‘uoeuodsuen ‘suogin, ‘senunn) sesuedxe reyjo %91
pue sobem/selieies %pg s1}6pnq juewedeg joouss Sul a =
_Suogisod y HIS jo yequinu JUBDIIUBIS SPNjOUl |W sino

_ SWICOISSE|O joeduuit IM sind ®

- queoyjuBIs aq jImsing e

| febpng ng pepuny ToT eB enue 0} s}nd pepuswiwoseL
“ SUIULE}EP 0} el pue ‘Q'S Asenige-4 Ue ayeogel|oo oO} Wes} diysispeo7
seq douswo/j, jobpng saniwwoy jooyos Ajquep}

een you UORNaLNSIP 404 Apeai eq Ts syoog }e5png

sdeig Ko ~ J96pna SZAJ


--- page break ---

