Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Thursday April 25, 2024
7:00PM

Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner, Alison Taylor, Al Williams

Also Present: Dr. Theresa McGuinnes-Interim Superintendent, Mary Delai- Interim Assistant
Superintendent of Finance, Julia Ferreira~Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and
Learning

L. Initial Business

a. Call to Order

Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:01PM

b. Commendations
« Brian Ota reads a statement that he has written on the leaks at Marblehead High School
©o He would like to commend Todd and the Custodians regarding the diligence in keeping
up with the leaks
« Jennifer Schaeffner highlights that Marblehead High School students were selected to attend the
North Shore Chamber of Commerce’s dinner
© The North Shore Chamber of Commerce celebrates the top 5% of students in the
graduating class of each public high school on the north shore
* Alison Taylor would like to commend anybody that pulled and returned papers for a seat on a
committee within the district
* Sarah Fox would like to commend everyone that has been part of the districts hiring committees
c, Public Comment
= Mary McCariston-46 Pine Cliff Drive
Qo Mary asks a question about an article she read regarding additional funding that the
district may receive from the Town
© Mary also references the “firing of Ann Haskell” and gives her opinion on the dismissal

II. District Updates-Dr. Theresa McGuinness

« Dr. McGuinness would like to commend the Marblehead Boosters and the community for the
“Fund the Field” project that was able to raise over $800,000 for the replacement of Piper Field at
the High School

« Staffing Updates:

© Glover Schoo! Principal
= First round of interviews has taken place
« Site visit scheduled for 05/02
© Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations
# Interviews were today 04/25
= Updates will be provided in the next two weeks
© Village School Principal
= Starting next week
© Assistant Director of Student Services (.5 FTE)


--- page break ---

« Will be posted soon
" Special Education Program Review
oO Due date for proposals was today 04/25
0 5 firms have submitted proposals
© Proposals will be reviewed by evaluation committee and a vendor will be selected by
O5/15
"Marblehead High School Roof Replacement:
© Due date for proposals is 05/16
o 12 Firms have requested RFS’s
Oo Proposals will be reviewed by evaluation committee on 05/20 and the vendor will be
selected by 05/30

= 05/24-Last day of classes for Seniors
=" Senior Prom- 05/29
® Graduation-05/31
" Student representative Cat Piper will be graduating this year and will bring her choice for
replacement representative to the next School Committee meeting
a. Updated School Calendar 2024-2025 (vote)

* School Committee has received some changes requested by the MEA to the School Calendar for
the 2024-2025 School Year

Motion to amend the previously approved motion to approve the 24/25 School Calendar
Moved by Ms. Schaeffner, Seconded by Ms. Taylor

Mr. Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffer, Ms. Fox- All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

Ill. Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills (vote)

Motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $425,631.81

Moved by Ms. Taylor, Seconded by Ms. Schaeffner

Mr. Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffer, Ms. Fox- All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

b. Approval of Minutes (vote)

Motion to approve the minutes as presented for 01/18/2024 with the requested edits
Moved by Ms. Schaeffner, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffner, Ms. Fox- All Yes


--- page break ---

Mr. Williams has abstained from the vote
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0 with one abstention

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

a. Director of Student Services Interview (vote)
« Lisa Marie Ippolito-Finalist for Director of Student Services for Marblehead Public Schools
© Dr. McGuinness provides an introduction of Lisa Marie to the School Committee
© The School Committee asks their questions to Lisa Marie

Motion to approve the hiring of Lisa Marie Ippolito for the Director of Student Services pending contract
negotiations

Opened for Discussion

* Jennifer Schaeffner has done research and this position in other School Districts is an Assistant
Superintendent position and proposes an amendment to the motion

Motion to hire Lisa Marie Ippolito as the Assistant Superintendent of Student Services pending a
successful contract and pending the voting in of a new role, salary range, and job description

Moved by Ms. Taylor, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Mr. Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffner, Ms. Fox- Afl Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

b. Marblehead High School Turf Replacement Donation (vote)

Motion to approve the acceptance of the donation from the Marblehead All Sports Boosters in the amount
of $680,698 for the Piper Field replacement and site improvement

Moved by Ms. Schaeffner, Seconded by Ms. Taylor
Mr. Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffner, Ms. Fox- All Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

c. User Fees Rate Setting (vote)
«Mary Delai sent a memo to the School Committee recommending that the district adopts option 2

Motion to approve the new user fee schedule outlined in the closed packet for the 2024-2025 School Year
Moved by Ms, Schaeffner, Seconded by Ms. Taylor
Mr. Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffner, Ms. Fox- All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0



--- page break ---

d. Superintendent Search Discussion
«The district has received a number of qualified candidates
* The School Committee discusses who their top 4 candidates are to begin to narrow the pool of
candidates
«The final candidates for the Interim Superintendent position will be Barbara Cataldo, Thaddeus
King, Jose Munos, John Robidoux and David Thompson
e, Sub Committee and Liaison Updates and Discussion
= Communications Survey Update
© Brian Ota presents the Final Draft of the Communications Survey
o The School Committee points out a few more edits that need to be made prior to
publishing the survey
© As the Surveys are completed they will be sent to Stephen Kwiatek, Director of
Technology, to pull the data together for the School Committees review
V. Closing Business

a. New Business-Schoo! Committee Announcements and Requests

» None
b. Correspondence
* None

c. Adjournment
Meeting is adjourned at 8:15PM by Ms. Fox
Respectfully Submitted,

Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
