                              Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                           Thursday October 17, 2024
                                                   5:30 PM


Members Present: Jennifer Schaeffner, Sarah Fox, Alison Taylor, Brian Ota, Al Williams

Also Present:      John Robidoux-Interim Superintendent, Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent of
                   Teaching and Learning

I. Initial Business

a. Call to Order

VI. Jennifer Schaeffner makes a motion and vote to meet in executive session pursuant to Mass. General
Laws chapter 30A section 21(a) purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for
collective bargaining with the Marblehead Education Association Unit A, Permanent Substitutes, Unit
Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals, and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have a detrimental
effect on the bargaining position or the Committee with the intent not to return to open session.

Moved by Sarah Fox, Seconded by Brian Ota

Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Ota, Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

Chairs statement following roll call vote on the motion:

The School Committee will now meet in Executive Session pursuant to Mass. General Laws chapter 30A
section 21(a) purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for collective bargaining
with the Marblehead Education Association Unit A, Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit
Paraprofessionals, and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have a detrimental effect on the
bargaining position or the Committee with the intent not to return to open session.

III. Executive Session

School Committee enters Executive Session at 5:30 PM

IV. Return to Open Session (not prior to 6:00PM)

Jennifer Schaeffner calls the public portion of the meeting to order at 6:25PM

V. Opening Business
       a. Pledge of Allegiance
       b. Commendations
       c. Public Comment
            Jonathan Heller-26 Ralph Road-MEA Member
                    o Jonathan reads his statement surrounding the state of Marblehead Public Schools
                   o   He highlights the current turnover rates and states that these rates are due to the
                       “teachers feeling disrespected, undervalued and under supported”.
              Hannah Partyka-Glover School Educator
                   o Hannah reads her statement surrounding the current negotiations with the MEA
                   o She highlights our Paras who are still “making less than state minimum wage”
              Therapeutic Teacher-Village School (Did not state name)
                   o This teacher highlights safety concerns within her classroom, as well as others,
                       within the Special Education department at Village School and throughout
                       Marblehead Public Schools
                   o “Marblehead does not have enough staff who are trained to support students and
                       teachers in crisis”
              Alison Carey-289 West shore Drive-Social Worker MHS
                   o Alison reads a statement on behalf of Kate Kelley who is a Spanish Teacher at
                       MHS
                    o The statement outlines the current parental leave offered by the school
                       department and what the MEA would like to see offered for parental leave
              Meaghan Kalpin-Veterans Middle School Nurse
                    o Meaghan references the section of the Unit A contract that limits nurses vertical
                       and horizontal movement through the steps and groups
              Bill Shull-17 Brookhouse Drive
                    o Bill would like to urge the school committee to “reflect on the lack of progress
                       within the negotiations”
              Michael Fu-Teacher MHS
                    o Michael highlights the legal fees that the School Committee has paid in the past
                       18 months
                    o Michael “implores the school committee to work with the teachers”

II. District Updates- Superintendent John Robidoux
      October is National Principals Month
              o John thanks and aknowlegdes all of Marblehead’s amazing principals
      The sunflowers planted by last year’s fifth grade class were entered in a competition at the
         Topsfield fair and placed 2nd overall
      Day of Service for the High School is 10/23
      Dan Richards, MHS assistant principal, is headed to Washington DC tomorrow representing the
         National Association of Secondary School Principals board of directors
      Bike Walk and Roll took place on 10/09
      John recognizes the great work that is being done with our Administration team under the
         guidance of Dr. Dara Monte Jackson as they continue their DEEP initiative (Disruptive Equity
         Education Project)
      Tonight the overarching MCAS results will be presented for the district
      John Robidoux, Julia Ferreira and Caja Johnson (METCO Director-MPS) attended the METCO
         Conference at Gillett Stadium on 10/04/24
      A Fall Sports update is provided
      An update on Attendance rates at each of the schools is provided:
              o Glover-97%
              o Village-96.6%
              o Brown-96.8%
            o   Vets-96.4%
            o   MHS-96%

III. Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills                                         (vote)

Ms. Schaeffner asks for a motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $1,421,500.65

Moved by Ms. Fox, Seconded by Mr. Taylor

Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Ota, Ms. Schaeffner and -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

b. Approval of Mintues                                       (vote)

Ms. Schaeffner asks for a motion to approve the minutes for 07/15/2024

Moved by Ms. Fox, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Ota, Ms. Schaeffner and -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

c. Dispositions for the vehicles that need to come offline   (vote)

Ms. Schaeffner asks for a motion to approve the dispositions of the vehicles just described

Moved by Ms. Fox, Seconded by Ms. Taylor

Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Ota, Ms. Schaeffner and -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
       a. Contract Negotiations Update
            Jennifer Schaeffner and Sarah Fox provide an update on the Contract Negotiations
            Jenn and Sarah highlight the new developments since the last presentation on
               negotiations
            “The current MEA wage proposals total a $11,591,107 budget increase over 4 years
            This will result in layoffs of more than 75 staff members (or 15% of the current staff)
            Current MEA Proposed increases:
                   o Unit A-33.9% by year 4
                   o Custodians-32% by year 4
                   o Tutors-27.8% by year 4
                   o Para’s-83.2% by year 4
                   o Perm Subs-52% by year 4
                Current School Committee Proposed increases:
                    o Unit A
                              10.5% for steps 1-10 over 4 years & 12% for Step 11 (more than 2/3 of
                                  our teachers) over 4 years
                              Addition of Step 12
                    o Custodians
                              16% wage increase to groups in year 1
                              4.5% wage increase over next 2 years
                              Sick leave increased by 20%
                              Increase Night Differential by 350% by the end of the contract
                    o Tutors
                              Renamed as “Instructional Assistants”
                              Removing multiyear requirement prior to step advancement
                              Proposing quicker step advancement to advance each year
                    o Para’s
                              Reclassify wage table to bring Pre-k, Kindergarten and Special Ed Para
                                  to top pay level
                              Up to 65% increase for starting wages and 34% wage increase for top
                                  wage scale
                              Increase rate of stepping to higher wage levels
                    o Perm Subs
                              Addition of steps and reduction of time between steps to allow for faster
                                  advancement
                              23% wage increase for starting wage over 3 years
                              17% increase for top step over 3 years
                    o Introduction of a Safety Committee
                    o Parental Leave Benefit
                              First 12 days of leave paid by employer
                              Increase to balance of 12 weeks available to be paid by employees
                                  accrued time
        b. Supt. Goals                      (vote)
             John outlines the Administrator Evaluation Goals for the 2024/2025 School year
                    o Goal 1: Professional Practice Goal-Establishment of a consistent district-wide
                         culture and development of appropriate staffing to meet the needs of our students
                    o Goal 2 : District Improvement Goal-Marblehead will develop a District
                         Improvement Plan (DIP) 2025-2028
                    o Goal 3: Student Learning Goal-ensuring students are our first priority by
                         ensuring that they have a voice in certain decision making in the district

Ms. Fox asks for a motion to approve the goals as presented

Moved by Ms. Taylor

Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Ota, Mr. Williams, Ms. Schaeffner and -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0
        c. School Committee Goals       (vote)
             This item will be moved to a future agenda
        d. MPS Athletic Handbook        (vote)

Ms. Schaeffner asks for a motion to approve the Athletic Handbook

Moved by Ms. Taylor Seconded by Ms. Fox

Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Ota, Ms. Schaeffner and -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

        e. MCAS Update-Julia Ferreira
             This item will be moved to a future agenda
        f. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
             Finance Committee-Sarah Fox
                    o Kickoff next week
IX. Closing Business
        a. New Business-School Committee announcements and requests
             Jennifer Schaeffner presents a contract proposal to the committee for a firm that is a
                Communications company that would work with the School Committee during
                negotiating the CBA’s with each unit
             They would assist the school committee to ensure that their communications are going
                out in a timely manner during bargaining
             This item will be placed on a future agenda for discussion
        b. Correspondence


Meeting is adjourned at 9:26 PM by Ms. Schaeffner

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
