Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Thursday February 15, 2024
7:01PM

Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner, Alison Taylor, Al Williams

Also Present: Dr. Theresa McGuinnes-Interim Superintendent, Michelle Cresta-Assistant
Superintendent of Finance, Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and
Learning

I. Initial Business

a. Call to Order

Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00PM

b, Commendations
* Alison Taylor would like to commend the MHS Hockey Team who is competing in finals in
Canada
= Jennifer Schaeffner would like to commend both of the MHS’s Acappella groups for their
performances this year
» Brian Ota would like to welcome the new School Committee member Al Williams
c. Public Comment
= Nancy Powell-72 Front Street
o Nancy is speaking on behalf of the League of Woman Voters
© The League would like to host a public forum featuring the Schoo! Committee to discuss
some of the issues that have arisen recently within the community
o A nonpartisan forum would be a “productive next step”
o They request that the proposal be accepted during the “New Business” portion of the
meeting
» Amy Dracker-30 Gregory Street
o Amy is the author of the letter read at last week’s school committee meeting and would
like to enter the letter into Public Record tonight
© In the last week over 760-people over the age of 18 have signed the online petition
o “The message is a call to action as to how you will address the issues raised by the
community regarding our schools”
= Mary McCariston-46 Pine Cliff Drive
© Mary welcomes Al and is hoping that he will be able to “corral” the committee for the
kids
d. Student Representative-Cat Piper
= Quarter 2 Report Cards were published and released on 02/06/24
» The Spanish Class trip to Spain will be during February Vacation
= Team Harmony has been visiting Elementary and Middle Schools to speak on social justice and
equality
* Informational sessions for the 2025 Greece trip will be held during April Vacation
* Magic Hat is looking for Student volunteers to work and continue to raise money for the schools.
They will receive honors society points for their service
« School counselors will be starting sessions with Juniors to assist them in applying for college
« Auditions for the MHS Spring play “The Prom” were held today


--- page break ---

© The Junior class is looking for donors for their upcoming auction, they are aiming fo raise
$50,000
« Sophomore Semi-Formal tickets will be on sale starting 02/26/24
II. District Updates-Dr. Theresa McGuinness
« Dr. McGuinness introduces Patricia Bell
o Interim Student Services Director for MPS for the remainder of the 2023/2024 School
Year
= Dr. MeGuiness introduces Mary Delai
© Consultant that will be here on a part time basis to assist in the Assistant Superintendent
of Finance and Operations role through the remainder of the 2023/2024 School Year
= Dr. McGuinness provides an update on the “Student Services Steering Committee”
* Wit and Wisdom mid-year update- Julia Ferreira, Mary Ellen Hart, Mary Leblanc, and Rebecca
Brand
© Julia, Mary, Rebecca and Mary give a curriculum update on the Wit and Wisdom
Literacy Program
© Wit and Wisdom provides opportunities for students to practice their skills in writing,
speaking, and listening
0 They provide an overview of the reason Wit and Wisdom was selected for knowledge and
curriculum building for our Students from K-6
0 Julia shares how the program was implemented initially to ensure the program was
successful
o Training was provided for educators to launch the program
o Graphs are shared outlining the growth of our students through this program
= School Calendar 2024-2025 (vote)
© The MEA has not voted on the PD days but the draft of the calendar presented at the last
school committee meeting is the final version

Motion to approve the School Calendar for the 2024/2025 School Year as was presented at our last
School Committee Meeting 02/01/24

Moved by Ms. Taylor, Seconded by Mr Ota
Mr, Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, and Ms. Schaeffner-All Yes
Mr. Williams abstained from the vote
Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0 with 1 abstention
® Budget Update — Dr. McGuinness and Michelle Cresta
© 02/28/24 the FY25 Budget will be presented to the Budget Workshop
© They will be presenting a Level Services Budget and a Reduced Services Budget

© The Budget Book will be ready by the end of next week to present to the School Committee

Il. Consent Action and Agenda Items
a. Schedule of Bills (vote)

Motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $762,430.73


--- page break ---

Moved by Mr, Ota, Seconded by Ms. Taylor

Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Williams, and Ms. Schaeffner-All Yes

A roll calf vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

b. Approval of Minutes (vote)

Motion to approve the minutes as presented for 12/07/23

Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Ms. Taylor

Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, and Ms. Schaeffner-All Yes

Mr. Williams abstained from the vote

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 3-0 with 1 abstention

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion [tems
a. 1 Am Bill (vote)
= Megan Sweeny presents the I Am Bill as a representative of the Massachusetts Chapter of the
National Organization for Women (Mass NOW)
« The IAm Bill increases access to menstrual products in Prisons, Homeless Shelters and Public
Schools

Motion to approve the Marblehead School Committee supporting the | Am Bill and to write to our elected
representatives

Moved by Ms. Taylor, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Mr, Ota, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Williams, Ms. Schaeffner and Ms. Fox-All Yes

Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

b. Interim Student Services Director (vote)

Motion to approve the contract for Interim Student Services Director Bell
Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Mr, Williams

Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Williams, Ms. Fox and Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes

A roll calf vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

c. School Business and Operations Position (vote)

Motion to approve the contract for the School Business and Operations Position

Moved by Mr, Ota, Seconded by Mr. Williams


--- page break ---

Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Williams, Ms. Fox and Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes
Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

d. Village Schoo! Overnight Field Trip Approval (Bournedale) (vote)

Motion to approve the Village School overnight field trip to Bournedale 05/21/24
Moved by Mr. Williams, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Williams, Ms. Fox and Ms. Schaeffer -All Yes

Aroll cali vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

e. Marblehead High Schoo! Program of Studies Change (vote)
«Michelle Carlson gives a presentation outlining the changes to the Marblehead High Schools
Program of Studies

Motion to approve the Marblehead High Schools Program of Studies changes for the 2024/2025 school
pear

Moved by Mr, Ota, Seconded by Mr. Williams
Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Williams, Ms. Fox and Ms. Schaeffner -Ail Yes
Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

f, Marblehead High School DECA Overnight Field Trip Change (vote)
* The Hotel location has changed

Motion to approve DECA Overnight field trip with the change in hotel
Moved by Ms. Taylor, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Williams, Ms. Fox and Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes
Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

g. Pre-School and Kindergarten Tuition Rates (vote)
« Michelle Cresta presents the current Kindergarten and Pre-School Tuition Rates
© Kindergarten tuition rates have not seen an increase in 3 years
o Pre-School tuition rates have not seen an increase in 2 years
o Looking for an increase of $500 in each of these programs
= Kindergarten-$4000 for the year
« Pre-K 1/2 Day $5000 for the year / Pre-K Full Day-$7000 for the year

Motion to approve the Tuition rates for the 2024/2025 School Year as follows:
Full Day Kindergarten $4000, Pre-School % Day $5000 and Pre-School Full Day $7000


--- page break ---

Moved by Mr. Williams, Seconded by Ms. Taylor
Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Mr, Williams, Ms. Fox and Ms. Schaeffer -All Yes
Aroll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

h. Athletic and Activity User Fee Rates
" No vote on this tonight
« Activity and User Fees directly impact the school budget
«Used to pay for half of the stipends
= Aproposal will be ready for the School Committee at a future meeting
i. Superintendent Search Process Discussion(vote)
« Sarah Fox references a letter that was written to the editor that the school committee is taking
“very seriously”
» We received guidance from our Legal Council that the School Committee attend a training
= MASC hosts a training that focuses on Districts in transition called “Training and Transitions”
=» Glen Kucher has made a proposal to move forward with a search for a Interim Superintendent
j. Upcoming Meetings Forum
= Sarah Fox will work with the League of Woman’s Voters fo get some dates for community the
forum requested
k. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates and Discussion
=" METCO Day of Action will be happening soon
» Finance Committee Liasson’s meeting 02/16
V. Closing Business
» Brian Ota asks where the RFP is for the Special Ed audit request
° It will be released by the end of next week
« High School Roof repair OPM will be released next week
a. New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests

« None
b. Correspondence
«= None

c. Adjournment

Motion to adjourn

Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Mr. Williams

Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Williams, Ms. Fox and Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes
A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

Meeting is adjourned at 9:17PM by Ms. Schaeffner

Respectfully Submitted,

Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
