                            Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                           Monday July 15, 2024
                                                 4:30PM


Members Present: Jennifer Schaeffner, Sarah Fox, Alison Taylor, Brian Ota

Also Present:      John Robidoux-Interim Superintendent, Michael Pfifferling-Assistant Superintendent of
                   Finance and Operations, Thatcher Kezer- Town Administrator

I. Initial Business

a. Call to Order

Jennifer Shaeffner calls the meeting to order at 4:34PM

b.. Public Comment


    ▪   Samantha Rosato-Tutor-Marblehead Public Schools
             o     Samantha asks why the additional .5 for the Assistant Director of Student Services would
                   be coming from the PK/K revolving fund rather than the Special Education Revolving
                   Fund
             o     John Robidoux provides clarity on the reasoning behind charging the additional .5 to the
                   PK/K Revolving Fund versus the Special Education Revolving Fund
    ▪

II. Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills       (vote)

Motion to approve the identified schedule of bills totaling $816,521.71

Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Ms. Taylor

Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Ota, Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

a. Motion to approve the hourly wages for cafeteria workers for the 2024-2025 school year as presented
(vote)

Jennifer Schaeffner asks for a motion to the hourly wages for cafeteria workers for the 2024-2025 school
year as presented

Moved by Ms. Ota, Seconded by Ms. Taylor
Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Ota, Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

b. Motion to approve the requested increase FTE for the Assistant Director of Special Education from .5
FTE to 1.0 FTE as presented and to fund the additional .5FTE from the PK/K revolving account (vote)

Jennifer Schaeffner asks for a motion to approve the requested increased FTE for the Assistant Director
of Special Education from .5 FTE to 1.0 FTE as presented and to fund the additional .5FTE from the
PK/K revolving account

Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Ms. Taylor

Opened for Discussion

    ▪   Sarah Fox would like to discuss the allocation of funding further at a future School Committee
        meeting

Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Ota, Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

c. Motion to appoint Town Administrator Thatcher Kezer to the School Committee Bargaining
Subcommittee

Jennifer Schaeffner asks for a motion to appoint Town Administrator Thatcher Kezer to the School
Committee Bargaining Subcommittee

Moved by Ms. Taylor, Seconded by Mr. Ota

Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Ota, Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

V. Closing Business
a. New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests
    ▪   Sarah Fox asks if there is an update on if the contract was awarded for the Independent
        Investigation and what kind of time frame we are looking at
            o John Robidoux has been in communication with the community to get their input before
                making a final decision on who they will be awarding the contract to.
            o The deadline for awarding the contract is 07/19/24
            o There is no current time frame for the completion of the investigation
    ▪   The School Committee retreat will be Wednesday 08/14/24 9:00 AM – 1:00 PM
            o  During the workshop they intend to focus on Superintendent goals as well as School
               Committee goals
           o Sarah Fox would also like to ensure that they are focusing on subcommittee and liason
               assignments
b. Correspondence
        ▪   The School Committee received a response from the Attorney Generals office regarding the
            Open Meeting Law complaint that was lodged in fall of 2023
        ▪   The complaint was in regards to one of the Executive Sessions held

        ▪   Jennifer Schaeffner reads the findings of the Attorney Generals office for the record
               o It was found that there was no open meeting law violation
        ▪   Need a copy of Alison Taylors statement for the record

Jennifer Schaeffner makes a motion and vote to meet in executive session pursuant to Mass. General
Laws chapter 30A section 21(a) purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for
collective bargaining with the Marblehead Education Association Unit A, Permanent Substitutes, Unit
Tutors, Unit Paraprofessionals, and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have a detrimental
effect on the bargaining position or the Committee with the intent not to return to open session.

Moved by Sarah Fox, Seconded by Brian Ota

Ms. Taylor, Ms. Fox, Mr. Ota, Ms. Schaeffner -All Yes

A roll call vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

The School Committee will now meet in Executive Session pursuant to Mass. General Laws chapter 30A
section 21(a) purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to and in preparation for collective bargaining
with the Marblehead Education Association Unit A, Permanent Substitutes, Unit Tutors, Unit
Paraprofessionals, and Unit Custodians because an open discussion may have a detrimental effect on the
bargaining position or the Committee with the intent not to return to open session.

School Committee enters Executive Session at 5:12 PM

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
