Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Wednesday May 01, 2024
7:00PM

Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner, Alison Taylor, Al Williams
Also Present: Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and Learning
I. Initial Business

a. Call to Order
Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:04PM

"Sarah Fox thanks the Marblehead Police Department as well as the Staff and Students at the
Marblehead High School for their response to the incident on 04/29

«Alison Taylor asks for a moment of silence for Todd Norman, a Marblehead Softball Coach that
passed away recently

If. Overview of Process and Organization
* Sarah Fox goes over the Interview Process for the Interim Superintendent candidates
IIL. Interviews for Interim Superintendent of Schools

a. Dr. Barbara Cataldo 7:15 PM
« Jennifer Schaeffner asks her questions to Barbara Cataldo
" Brian Ota asks his questions to Barbara Cataldo
* Alison Taylor asks her questions to Barbara Cataldo
* AI Williams asks his questions to Barbara Cataldo
= Sarah Fox asks her questions to Barbara Cataldo
b. Dr. David Thomson 8:30 PM
* Jennifer Schaeffner asks her questions to David Thompson
* Brian Ota asks his questions to David Thompson
* Alison Taylor asks her questions to David Thompson
* AI Williams asks his questions to David Thompson
« Sarah Fox asks her questions to David Thompson

IV. Interview Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations Candidate

a. Michael Pfifferling- Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operation Finalist
« Julia Ferreira introduces Michael to the School Committee
* Brian Ota asks his questions to Michael Pfifferling
« Alison Taylor welcomes Michael to the District and points out some of the things that were
brought up during the initial interview of Michael by the hiring committee
«Jennifer Schaeffer asks her questions to Michael Pfifferling
« Sarah Fox asks her questions to Michael Pfifferling

--- page break ---

Motion to approve Michael Pfifferling as our Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations subject
to successful contract negotiations

Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Ms. Schaeffer

Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffner, Ms. Fox- All Yes
A vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

V. Closing Business

Meeting is adjourned at 9:50PM by Ms. Fox (Check adjournment time recording cut off before Sarah said
it)

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
