Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Thursday April 01, 2024
7:00PM

Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner, Alison Taylor, Al Williams

Also Present: Dr. Theresa McGuinnes-Interim Superintendent, Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent
of Teaching and Learning

I. Initial Business
a. Call to Order
Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 7:00PM

b. Commendations

» None
c. Public Comment
« None

Ii. District Updates-Dr. Theresa McGuinness
a. FY24 Update
= Special Ed Audit bid will be awarded in May to begin the audit in June
© Alison Taylor wil! be on the evaluation committee

" Roofing Project request for proposal is underway with responses due later this month and a
contract awarded in mid-July

o Completion of phase one is set for July 2025
o Air quality tests have been performed and it has been determined that the mold is not
airborne
oO Mary Defai outlines what this process looks like from start to finish
b. FY25 budget status update
» Presentation of Budget Priorities
o Dr. McGuinness presents an FY25 Priority List presentation for the District
« The Level Funding budget was rejected at the last school committee meeting
=» We are now looking at a Level Services budget
® The three categories presented are the positions that have been prioritized to be
brought back into the budget with category one representing the most critical
areas
= Mary outlines that we will be repurposing some of our revolving funds to
facilitate bringing back these positions,
o Athletics-User Fee Analysis and Structure
“Currently 50% of Coaching stipends are paid by user fees
« With Level Service Funding we would continue to pay 50% of coach stipends
from User Fees
= With Reduced Service Funding 100% of coach stipends from User Fees
o A list is presented of reductions not included in the ranking as budget add backs
" More information is requested on the cuts made in the Special Education
department at Glover, Village and the High School
« Additional information is requested on the cut made to the Reading Teacher and

--- page break ---

Special Ed Teacher at the Village School
Motion to approve a budget of $47,072,476
Moved by Ms. Taylor, Seconded by Ms. Schaeffner
Mr. Williams, Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Schaeffiner, All Yes
A vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0
Ill, Consent Action and Agenda Items
Motion to allow to post for an Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations
Moved by Ms. Taylor, Seconded by Ms. Schaeffner
Mr. Williams, Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Mr. Ota and Ms. Schaeffner, All Yes
A vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
a. Communication Proposal
« Brian Ota gives a presentation of the Communication Survey
V. Closing Business
a, New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests

= None
b. Correspondence
* None

c. Adjournment
Meeting is adjourned at 8:25PM by Ms. Fox
Respectfully Submitted,

Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
