Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
Friday May 10, 2024
1:00PM

Members Present: Sarah Fox, Brian Ota, Jennifer Schaeffner, Alison Taylor, Al Williams

Also Present: Dr. Theresa McGuinnes-Interim Superintendent, Mary Delai- Interim Assistant
Superintendent of Finance, Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and
Learning

I. Initial Business

a. Call to Order

Ms. Fox called the meeting to order at 1:01PM

b. Public Comment
= None

If. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

a. Interim Superintendent Discussion (vote)
« 14 Feedback forms were received
* The School Committee discusses the candidates and who they would like to move forward in the
process
o AJ Williams has two candidates that he would like to see move forward-John Robidoux
and Barbara Cataldo
© Brian Ota has two candidates that he would like to see move forward- Thaddeus King
and David Thompson
© Alison Taylor has two candidates that she would like to see move forward- John
Robidoux and David Thompson
oO Jennifer Schaeffner has two candidates that she would like to see move forward-Barbara
Cataldo and John Robidoux
oO Sarah Fox has two candidates that she would like to see move forward- Barbara Cataldo
and John Robidoux
= John Robidoux and Barbara Cataldo will move forward
» After the site visits the School Committee will discuss next steps

Motion to move Barbara Cataldo and John Robidoux to the next phase of the Interim Superintendent
Search

Moved by Mr. Williams, Seconded by Ms. Schaeffner
Mr. Williams, Mr, Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffner, Ms. Fox-All Yes

A vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

b. Assistant Superintendent Contract Approval (vote)


--- page break ---

"Michael Pfifferling-Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations

Motion to approve the contract with Michael Pfifferling for Assistant Superintendent of Finance and
Operations

Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Ms. Taylor
Mr. Williams, Mr, Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffnner, and Ms, Fox-All Yes
A vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

* Lisa Mari Ippolito-Assistant Superintendent of Student Services

Motion to approve the contract with Lisa Marie Ippolito for Assistant Superintendent of Student Services
Moved by Mr. Ota, Seconded by Ms. Taylor

Mr. Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Taylor, Ms, Schaeffner, and Ms. Fox-All Yes

A vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

c. Principal Contract Approval
= This agenda item will be scheduled for a future meeting

HI. Closing Business

a. New Business-School Committee Announcements and Requests
= Brian Ota-Communications Survey
© 566 Responses so far
© Results will be presented at the next School Committee meeting
= Jennifer Schaeffner goes over what would be involved in having a State Auditor come in and do
and audit of the district
b, Adjournment

Meeting is adjourned at 1:30 PM by Ms. Fox

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
