Marblehead School Committee
Chair: Al Williams
Meeting Date, Time & Location: Tuesday, September 30, 2025, 6pm, MHS Library, 2 Humphrey
Street Marblehead MA 01945
SC Members Present: M. Clucas, H. Gwazda, J. Schaeffner, K. Schmeckpeper, A.Williams
Agenda & Materials: Link
Meeting Recording: Link
Minutes Respectfully Submitted By: Henry Gwazda


   ●​ Call to Order: Mr. Williams called the meeting to order at 6:02PM. The committee recited the
      Pledge of Allegiance. There were no commendations, nor public comment.
   ●​ Student Representative: College recommendations being worked on; 100 colleges and
      universities will be visiting between Nov & Dec. There are 8 National Merit Scholars and 1
      semi-finalist. A substance abuse / risk factor survey is being fielded and students in health
      classes are being CPR certified. The annual Boosters donation drive is slated to take place this
      weekend.
   ●​ Consent Action and Agenda Items: There was no schedule of bills to approve. Mr. Williams
      asked for a motion to approve meeting minutes from 7/2/25, 7/31/25 and 9/18/25. Ms.
      Schmeckpeper moved to approve these minutes, Mr. Gwazda seconded. The motion carried
      4-0 with Ms. Schaeffner abstaining.
   ●​ Village School PTO Donation: Ms. Schmeckpeper made a motion to accept a donation
      intended to benefit the students of Village School. The funds will be used to install water bottle
      filling stations. The full job will cost $4,206. The motion was seconded by Mr. Gwazda. The
      motion carried 5-0.
   ●​ Update on Town Charter review: The school committee was asked to review the town charter
      draft and recommend any factual corrections. Ms. Schmeckpeper reviewed Article 6, section 6.8
      (which pertains to the school committee) and had one concern, which the Town Charter
      committee addressed by adding sentence 4.5 (in packet) - which clarifies that the SC is
      responsible for the administration of the budget once approved by Town Meeting.
   ●​ 2025/26 SC Goals: Mr. Williams requested that S.M.A.R.T. goals be submitted by members;
      six were sent in.
   ●​ ● Ms. Schaeffner felt that an open meeting violation occurred and made a motion that the Chair
      self-report. Ms. Schmeckpeper seconded for purposes of discussion. Although there was
      disagreement on whether an OML violation did, in fact, occur, the committee voted to
      self-report and seek an appropriate remedy. The motion passed 4-1, with Mr. Williams
      opposed.
   ●​ ● Mr. Gwazda shared that he wants to develop better communication tools to amplify district /
      committee stories that are already being told, and solicit / tell stories that aren’t, using
      resources that we already have (meeting updates, distribution tools) and some that we need to
   develop. He proposed a timeline to launch in mid-November, building a calendar and
   repackaging the superintendent update as a start. Ms. Clucas agreed, and emphasized the need
   to understand preferred communication channels of audiences.
●​ ● Mr. Gwazda also proposed a goals tracker that can be used to communicate the School
   Committee’s progress on self-imposed goals, keeping the community informed and driving
   accountability. The tracker could be hosted by Google tools and embedded into the existing SC
   website. Mr. Gwazda shared a timeline for implementation: build by end of October, launch by
   end of November.
  ●​ ● Ms. Clucas proposed a goal aimed toward improving transparency and accountability.
           First, a baseline survey this fall to understand the community’s level of access to and
       understanding of the committee’s work, and surveying again at a few points during the year.
                                               Also, the creation of
●​ instant recaps following meetings, to supplement minutes and improve the community’s access
   to information.
●​ ● Ms. Clucas also suggested strengthening financial transparency, including providing
   information to help the community understand the budget and allowing opportunities to discuss.
   This effort would include close collaboration with FinCom to explain realities, requests,
   tradeoffs. The goal would be to implement by March 2026. Ms. Schmeckpeper supported the
   effort to find new / different ways to share and discuss budget information.
●​ ● Ms. Schmeckpeper proposed a goal to elevate educator voices to inform decision-making.
   Jointly with the administration, build a series of listening sessions to understand educators’
   perspectives on salient issues. Additionally, adding an educator representative to sit at the SC
   table during meeting, and encouraging the student representative to play a more active role. Ms.
   Schaeffner recommended consulting legal to understand challenges and expressed concern with
   possible overreach into the Superintendent’s role. The committee discussed strengthen
●​ ● Ms. Schaeffner believes the goals should be focused on budget, policy and managing
   the superintendent, including finding ways to fund the district, maximize student achievement
   and manage the superintendent.
●​ ● Ms. Schmeckpeper proposed a goal to support the Superintendent in completing and
   communicating the District Improvement Plan, and that community input is gathered.
   Additionally, that the committee consider its role in strategic planning moving forward.
   Currently, there is not a central document for everyone to use to move in a similar direction.
●​ Next steps: Mr. Williams to contact MASC to recruit a facilitator to help the committee to finalize
   goals.
●​ Process for Supt Evaluation: Mr. Williams presented a plan for the superintendent’s review
   cycle, and how the school committee members will participate. Over the next few meetings the
   superintendent evaluation will take place (off cycle) and he will need to set new goals.
●​ Subcommittee & Liaison Updates
●​ ● SEPAC Liaison: Mr. Gwazda met with SEPAC and discussed the ways in which the SC
   liaison can function for the group, ways in which they can integrate with the SC, and that they’re
   looking for members.
●​ ● Roof Advisory: Mr. Gwazda shared that the group held their first meeting, reviewing a
     presentation from Left Field. RDA was in attendance. The group conducted introductions and the
     timeline for their work. A recording of the meeting is available on the SC’s YouTube page.
●​   ● Policy Subcommittee: Ms. Schmeckpeper shared that the policy subcommittee met this
     morning to discuss a set of first read policy revisions and rescinations, which will come before the
     committee soon. Ms. Schaeffner invited the committee to flag policies that are of interest for
     review. Mr. Williams expressed interest in reviewing the policy governing kindergarten start
     requirements.
●​   ● Facilities Subcommittee: Mr. Gwazda shared that the facilities subcommittee met over the
     summer to review the list of summer facilities, and that the bulk of the updates from their meeting
     was shared. The committee will be looking at school signage
●​   New Business
●​   Mr. Gwazda noted that a liaison may be between the school committee and the Charter
     School. He will research and follow up.
●​   Mr. Williams raised that several SC members are going to the MASC conference in
     November. If the committee so chooses, the group will need to vote on a delegate by
     mid-October. The committee will also need to review the slate of questions that will be voted
     upon.
●​   Adjournment: Mr. Williams asked for a motion to adjourn to executive sessions. The
     committee does not plan to return. Ms. Schmeckpeper moved, Mr. Gwazda seconded. The
     motion passed 5-0. The Committee went into executive sessions at 7:26pm.
