                         Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                      Thursday January 09, 2025
                                              6:00 PM


Members Present: Jennifer Schaeffner, Sarah Fox, Alison Taylor, Brian Ota, Al Williams

Also Present:   John Robidoux-Interim Superintendent, Julia Ferreira-Assistant Superintendent of
                Teacher and Learning, LisaMarie Ippolito-Assistant Superintendent of Student Services

Ms. Schaeffner calls the meeting to order at 6:04 PM

I. Opening Business
         a. Pledge of Allegiance
         b. Commendations
               Jennifer Schaeffner asks for a moment of silence for Libby Moore, a former teacher and
                 principal of Marblehead Public Schools, who passed away in late December 2024
               Sarah Fox would like to commend Tyler Earp who received an award from the Eagle
                 Scouts for his work with the Greenhouse at Marblehead High School
         c. Public Comment
               None
         d. Student Representative-Ella Benedetto (Spelling)
               The Senior Show will be this Sunda 01/12/25 at 3:00 PM
               The Varsity Girls basketball team will be playing at TD Garden on Saturday 01/11/25 at
                 11:30 AM
               The Musical this year at MHS will be Hades Town-auditions will be 01/15/25
               Junior Seminars are beginning next week
II. District Updates- Superintendent John Robidoux
      A joint committee has been established for School Safety
              o This committee is composed of 10 union and 10 administrative members
      A joint Labor Committee has also been established
              o The primary responsibility of the Labor Committee will be to review and update the
                 educator evaluation process as well as address issues related to contract language etc.
      Superintendent Robidoux provides an update on the independent investigation in relation to
         antisemitism in the district
      The District Six DECA Competition was held on 01/07/25 led by Paul Gleason
      John provides an update on the current athletic standings for Marblehead Public Schools
      Magic Hat is celebrating 20 years and over 200 million dollars in donations to Marblehead Public
         Schools
III. Consent Action and Agenda Items
a. Schedule of Bills
          Moved to a future agenda
b. Meeting Minutes (12/05/24, 12/19/24)

Ms. Schaeffner asks for a motion to approve the School Committee Meeting minutes for 12/05/24

Moved by Ms Taylor, Seconded by Ms. Fox
Mr. Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffner and -All Yes

A vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

Ms. Schaeffner asks for a motion to approve the School Committee Meeting minutes for 12/19/2024

Moved by Ms Taylor, Seconded by Ms. Fox

Mr. Ota, Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffner and -All Yes

Mr. Williams abstained from the vote

A vote was taken, and the motion passes 4-0 with one abstention

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items
    a. MCAS High Needs Overview/Academic Discoveries Review (LisaMarie Ippolito)
        LisaMarie gives a presentation on MCAS High Needs Overview and provides an Academic
           Discoveries Review
                The slide deck for this presentation can be found within the agenda for the 01/09/25
                   meeting minutes
                Academic Discoveries have almost completed their review of the district
                They are coming back to the district on 01/31/25 to complete more classroom
                   observations
                        February is the current date for completion of the report to present to the
                           School Committee
    b. Proposal for Competency Determination for graduating students
                Julia Ferreira, Superintendent Robidoux and Michele Carlson have met a few times
                   to discuss competency determination and what it would look like for Marblehead
                   students
                John presents a document to the School Committee that would include both
                   competency determination and graduation requirements
                The state requires that we align our competency determination with the 2023 MCAS
                   exams
                He highlights that it is now up to the district to determine what is used for
                   competency determination now that MCAS is not one of the determining factors
                John provides options for competency determination to the school committee that he,
                   Julia and Michele feel make the most sense based upon the state’s requirements
                They will continue this discussion at future meetings to ensure that they have a plan
                   in place for this school year as well as one in place moving forward
    c. Preliminary 2025-26 School Year Calendar
                Superintendent Robidoux presents the preliminary school year calendar for the
                   2025/2026 school year including the PD Days and School Vacation weeks
                Alison Taylor highlights 01/02/26, the day that the students come back from Winter
                   Break, falls on a Friday for the 2025/2026 school year which may lead to reduced
                   attendance
                Alison also highlights November 3rd and 4th where the Monday is a half day and
                   Tuesday is an off day, which may lead to reduced attendance on Monday
                           These PD Days were scheduled this way because the Town may be using one
                            school as one single polling location for the voters of Marblehead during the
                            election
                   John and Julia will bring an updated version of the 2025-26 School Year Calendar to
                    the next school committee meeting for review and possible vote

    d. Coffin School Surplus Property                                (vote)

Ms. Schaeffner asks for a motion to transfer the care custody, management, and control of the Coffin
School building and grounds to the Select Board being it is no longer needed for School purposes

Moved by Mr. Williams, Seconded by Ms. Taylor

        Sarah Fox outlines that this was postponed last year because the committee wanted to see the
         outcome of the 3 A Vote due to the potential of brining 900 more residence units to the town of
         Marblehead
              Which was voted down last year but has currently been brought back to light recently due
                to circumstances in another district in Massachusetts

Mr. Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffner and -All Yes

A vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

    e. Capital Outlay request: MHS Roof                             (possible vote)

Ms. Schaeffner asks for a motion to see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate of an appropriate
sum of money for remodeling, reconstructing, and making extraordinary repairs to existing school
buildings, infrastructure and the purchase of necessary equipment including computer hardware and
software to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise or to take
any other action relative there to

Moved by Ms. Fox, Seconded by Mr. Williams

Mr. Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffner and -All Yes

A vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0

    f.   Warrant article Additional Funding for school expenses                       (vote)

Ms. Schaeffner asks for a motion to see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate of transfer from
available funds a sum of money to supplement the school departments operating budget beginning in
fiscal year 2026, contingent upon the passage of a proposition two and a half so called ballot question or
take an action relative thereto

Moved by Ms. Fox, Seconded by Mr. Williams

Mr. Williams, Mr. Ota, Ms. Fox, Ms. Taylor, Ms. Schaeffner and -All Yes

A vote was taken, and the motion passes 5-0
   g. Superintendent Status preliminary discussion
          Currently Superintendent Robidoux has a 2-year temporary contract
          The discussion is started regarding the steps that the School Committee will take to make
              this determination from a staff, student and community standpoint
          Superintendent Robidoux would like to make his position permanent with Marblehead
              Public Schools if that is the will of the committee and the community
          The committee would like to ensure that community feedback is involved in this
              decision-making process as well as a formal evaluation of Superintendent Robidoux’s
              performance thus far
                   o This is to ensure that we are using data in the final decision
          The preliminary timeline for discussion, negotiations and decision making is outlined by
              the committee
                   o Within 4 weeks- A Workshop will be held with all School Committee members
                       as well as Superintendent Robidoux
                   o 6-8 weeks-The committee will gather community feedback and complete the
                       evaluation
                   o All will be presented at a future School Committee meeting
   h. Subcommittee and Liaison Updates
          Sarah Fox-Budget Subcommittee
                   o Met on Tuesday 01/07/25
                   o Budget Forum scheduled for 02/06/25 to get community input
                   o 03/06/25 School Budget hearing scheduled
                   o 03/31/25 Town hearing scheduled
                   o There is also a budget workshop scheduled
                   o FinCom’s warrant hearing is 04/07/25
          Brian Ota-CEPAC meeting held today 01/09/25
          Newsletter and FAQ’s will be launched this month

V. Closing Business
        a. New Business-School Committee announcements and requests
        b. Correspondence

Meeting is adjourned at 8:30PM by Ms. Schaeffner

Respectfully Submitted,
Allison McMahon, Secretary
Marblehead School Committee
