MARBLEHEAD PUBLIC SCHOOLS




   DISTRICT CURRICULUM
ACCOMMODATION PLAN (DCAP)
District Mission
The mission of the Marblehead Public Schools is to foster in our students a passion for learning and to
provide a safe nurturing environment in which they can develop the values, knowledge and skills needed
to achieve full potential in their personal, social and work lives and to become contributing members of
society.

District Vision
The Marblehead Public School District serves as a model school district, exemplary in its student
engagement and academic excellence, where all students meet their highest potential with the support
of outstanding instructional leadership and in partnership with the community.

District Core Values
The Marblehead Public Schools supports an inclusive environment that believes in:
    ●   Student Achievement: We will provide challenging standards and differentiated instruction to
        encourage students to excel and become confident, engaged learners who achieve their
        potential.

    ●   Personal Growth: We will provide students with opportunities to grow socially, emotionally,
        physically and academically, and to be respectful, contributing members of society.

    ●   Partnerships and Collaboration: As a shared responsibility, we will foster partnerships among the
        schools, families, businesses and the community at large.

    ●   School Culture: We will create an environment of respect and appreciation for individual and
        cultural differences, and instill a passion for responsible social action.

    ●   Resources: We will make decisions in the best interests of students, recognizing responsible
        funding that supports educational excellence




                                                                                                           2
                                  Table of Contents

District Curriculum Accommodation Plan Overview                                             4
    What is the DCAP?                                                                       4
    What is the goal of the DCAP?                                                           4

Multi-Tiered Systems of Support                                                             5
  What is Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS)?                                           5
  How does Marblehead’s DCAP integrate with the MTSS Framework?                             7
  What is Universal Design for Learning (UDL) and how can it facilitate student success?    7

Structures to Support Teachers, Students, and Families                                      9
    How can the DCAP help teachers, students, and families?                                 9
    Family and Community Support Structures                                                 9
    Teacher and Staff Support Structures                                                   10
    Student Support Structures                                                             10

Recommended Universal Accommodations                                                       12
   Academic/Instructional Supports                                                         12
   Organizational Supports                                                                 13
   Social/Emotional and Behavioral Supports                                                13

UDL Framework Accommodation List                                                           14

References                                                                                 16




                                                                                            3
                  District Curriculum Accommodation Plan Overview

What is the DCAP?
The Marblehead Public School District, in compliance with the Massachusetts General Law, has
developed a District Curriculum Accommodations Plan (DCAP). The intent of this plan is to
provide a guidance document for building principals, administrators, and instructional staff to
ensure that all students within a general education setting are provided with the tools and
strategies to be successful. The DCAP provides a framework for teachers and specialists to
provide differentiated learning experiences that ensure students build skills and access learning
experiences through the use of multiple teaching modalities. The DCAP guidance document
describes accommodations, instructional supports, and interventions that are provided for all
students. According to Chapter 71 Massachusetts General Law: Section 38Q ½:

       “A school district shall adopt and implement a curriculum accommodation plan to assist
       principals in ensuring that all efforts have been made to meet students' needs in regular
       education. The plan shall be designed to assist the regular classroom teacher in analyzing and
       accommodating diverse learning styles of all children in the regular classroom and in providing
       appropriate services and support within the regular education program including, but not limited
       to, direct and systematic instruction in reading and provision of services to address the needs of
       children whose behavior may interfere with learning, or who do not qualify for special education
       services under chapter 71B. The curriculum accommodation plan shall include provisions
       encouraging teacher mentoring and collaboration and parental involvement.”

What is the goal of the DCAP?
The goal of the DCAP is to describe the strategies and resources that classroom teachers and
specialists are expected to use to address the diverse learning needs of all students within
general education learning environments throughout the school day. The Marblehead Public
School District seeks to create a learning environment in which students receive targeted
instruction, social-emotional supports and accommodations in order to access instruction and
assessment based on each individual student’s learning style and needs, encouraging multiple
entry points to content standards and means of access. Accommodations may include, but are
not limited to, adjustments in the presentation of curriculum, use of teaching strategies,
instructional materials and the use of various forms of assessment providing all students the
opportunity to demonstrate their learning and progress towards standards. The effectiveness of
accommodations, instructional supports and strategies is monitored by TAT teams to ensure
that all appropriate general education supports and interventions within the DCAP are utilized
prior to consideration for referral for evaluation for Special Education services.




                                                                                                        4
The Marblehead Public School District DCAP has five main objectives:

   ● Assist general educators in appropriately accommodating diverse learners
   ● Articulate support services and instructional delivery options available within general
     education
   ● Recommend appropriate interventions for learners who require additional support
   ● Identify resources available to educators in the areas of student support, mentoring,
     professional development and coaching
   ● Make the general education classroom an appropriate placement for all students

For students with existing 504 plans or IEPs, the team should ensure that any accommodations
that are required due to the student’s specific disability should still be listed in the IEP or 504
plan, regardless of whether or not they are listed in the DCAP and available to all students. This
approach ensures that if students leave Marblehead to move to another district or graduates,
the receiving school has the information necessary to develop an appropriate plan for that
student.

As outlined in “Is Special Education the Right Service?” from the Massachusetts Department of
Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE):
        The instructional support system should consist of ongoing systematic efforts to
        accommodate any student’s learning needs within the general education classroom.
        Instructional support must be viewed as a viable intervention strategy; one that is
        expected to occur for any student encountering difficulties in learning” (pp 5-6).

The DCAP provides guidance for Tier 1 accommodations, as structured through the Multi-Tiered
Systems of Support (MTSS) framework.

                              Multi-Tiered Systems of Support
What is Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS)?

The Marblehead Public School District has embraced the Multi-Tiered System of Support (MTSS)
model, which provides an essential framework for school and district improvement that focuses
on system level change across the classroom, school, and district to meet the academic and
non-academic needs of all students, including students with disabilities, English Learners, and
students who are academically advanced. The MTSS model guides both the provision of
high-quality educational experiences in a safe and supportive learning environment for all
students, and academic and/or non-academic targeted interventions/supports for students who
experience difficulties, in addition to extension and enrichment opportunities for students who



                                                                                                      5
have already demonstrated mastery of the concept and skills being taught.
The MTSS framework is a 3-tier model of accommodations, resources and interventions to
appropriately support students based on data-informed identified areas of weakness:

   ● Tier 1 = All Students: Core curriculum with embedded universal accommodations that
     are available for all students. The DCAP outlines the context for a list of possible (though
     not exhaustive) Tier 1 accommodations that can be accessed by all students.

   ● Tier 2 = Some Students: Targeted instruction or interventions that are provided to
     students who have been identified to require more support than core, universal
     supports. These interventions should be identified and recommended through
     data-driven identification by core content teachers and in collaboration with
     building-based TAT teams. Many Tier 2 interventions can and should still be
     implemented within the general education setting as much as possible.

   ● Tier 3 = Few Students: Intensive instruction or intervention provided to students when it
     has been identified that a student’s rate of progress is slower than expected, has stalled,
     or when regression has occurred. Tier 3 interventions may require services in a pull-out
     setting, including in a 1:1 format.

Through the MTSS framework, the interventions - not the students - are tiered. In other words,
maximizing the least restrictive learning environment must always remain the goal for all
students, with appropriately identified tiered interventions built into a student’s schedule for
targeted periods of time (typically 6-8 weeks). When data is collected and analyzed with fidelity,
the TAT team will be able to continue to provide appropriate interventions for struggling
students. Finally, it is important to note that Tier 3 is not equivalent to special education. An IEP
provides specially designed instruction for students with an identified disability, and students
with disabilities do not automatically require Tier 3 interventions or supports.




                                                                                                    6
How does Marblehead’s DCAP integrate with the MTSS Framework?
The DCAP includes suggestions for accommodating concerns regarding academic progress
as well as strategies and interventions designed to resolve social and behavioral issues.
While it lists best practices, sample strategies and other actions from which the teachers
and collaborating staff may select appropriate accommodations for individual students, in
no way does the DCAP limit the accommodations that staff may choose to implement in
order to meet a student’s needs.

TAT Teams, Data Teams, and Professional Learning Communities (PLC) meet on a regular
basis and provide general education teachers the opportunity to collaboratively work
together to find accommodations and interventions to meet the needs of students.
Consultation with interventionists and curriculum coordinators who can provide important
information and expertise to the general education teacher are a common part of the TAT
meetings. Our schools employ the services of specialists, curriculum-based and student
support leaders for the purpose of assisting students who need extra support. Careful
assessment and remediation is planned. Collaboration with the general education teacher
is an important component of the success of this collaboration. Family communication is
an important part of the process as well. Establishing home/school connections is a
strategy that is often implemented as a result of referral to the team.

The foundation of Marblehaed’s DCAP is based on the frameworks of Universal Design for
Learning (UDL), which aligns with the Tier 1 accommodations based on the MTSS framework.

What is Universal Design for Learning (UDL) and how can it facilitate student success?
Universal Design for Learning (UDL) is a research-based, concrete educational framework that
helps guide the design of learning environments in order to make them accessible and effective
for all. Through UDL, educators provide multiple means of representation (the “what” of
learning), action/expression (the “how” of learning), and engagement (the “why” of learning).
UDL can be applied to any discipline or domain and ensures that all learners have access and
the ability to participate in meaningful, challenging learning opportunities. The National Center
on Universal Design for Learning describes the three UDL frames as follows:

Multiple Means of Representation: Learners differ in the ways that they perceive and
comprehend information that is presented to them. For example, those with sensory disabilities
(e.g., blindness or deafness); learning disabilities (e.g., dyslexia); language or cultural
differences, and so forth may all require different ways of approaching content. Others may
simply grasp information quicker or more efficiently through visual or auditory means rather
than printed text. Also learning, and transfer of learning, occurs when multiple representations
are used, because they allow students to make connections within, as well as between,



                                                                                                7
concepts. In short, there is not one means of representation that will be optimal for all learners;
providing options for representation is essential.

Multiple Means of Action/Expression: Learners differ in the ways that they can navigate a
learning environment and express what they know. For example, individuals with significant
movement impairments (e.g., cerebral palsy), those who struggle with strategic and
organizational abilities (executive function disorders), those who have language barriers, and so
forth approach learning tasks very differently. Some may be able to express themselves well in
written text but not speech, and vice versa. It should also be recognized that action and
expression require a great deal of strategy, practice, and organization, and this is another area in
which learners can differ. In reality, there is not one means of action and expression that will be
optimal for all learners; providing options for action and expression is essential.

Multiple Means of Engagement: Affect represents a crucial element to learning, and learners
differ markedly in the ways in which they can be engaged or motivated to learn. There are a
variety of sources that can influence individual variation in affect including neurology, culture,
personal relevance, subjectivity, and background knowledge, along with a variety of other
factors. Some learners are highly engaged by spontaneity and novelty, while others are
disengaged, even frightened, by those aspects, preferring strict routine. Some learners might
like to work alone, while others prefer to work with their peers. In reality, there is not one
means of engagement that will be optimal for all learners in all contexts; providing multiple
options for engagement is essential.




                                                                                                     8
                Structures to Support Teachers, Students, and Families

How can the DCAP help teachers, students, and families?
The DCAP assists in identifying strategies and accommodations that can be provided to students
within all content and instructional environments. It is essential that accommodations are
offered and provided in an individualized manner in recognition of differing learning styles and
the varied points at which students begin to access content area learning. Across all content
areas and grade-levels, students will require various levels of support to make effective
educational progress. When a student requires and receives accommodations, especially
through the structure of the TAT team, this ensures that the student is appropriately supported;
it does not mean a student is considered to be “at-risk” and should not automatically be
considered for a special education referral.

Providing appropriate accommodations and support to students across the school day and
across all environments creates accessible learning experiences and opportunities for students
to engage with content, their peers, and their community while honoring their diverse
backgrounds and experiencing and fostering an environment of mutual respect. The DCAP
serves as a key reference and resource to all district staff, as well as a resource for parents to see
the wide range of support that their students may access within the general education setting.
The DCAP also serves to clarify the difference between universal accommodations that can be
provided to all students and the specially designed accommodations, modifications, and
instruction delineated within an IEP or 504 plan for a student with an identified disability.

The Marblehead Public School District is committed to accommodating and differentiating our
instruction and curriculum to support the whole student. All district staff may provide individual
accommodations to students on an as-needed basis and specific to the content or situation.

While the DCAP lists best practices, sample accommodations/strategies and other action steps
to appropriately support students, the DCAP is not a fully exhaustive list.

Family and Community Support Structures
Promotes the learning and growth of all students through effective partnerships with families,
caregivers, community members, and organizations.

   ●   School Councils
   ●   Curriculum Nights/Open Houses
   ●   Parent/Teacher Conferences
   ●   Special Education Parent Advisory Council (SEPAC)
   ●   English Learner Parent Advisory Council (ELPAC)
   ●   Parent Information Events




                                                                                                    9
   ●   Preschool Screening
   ●   Kindergarten Screening
   ●   Community Messaging System (School Messenger, etc)
   ●   District and Individual School webpages
   ●   Teacher/Classroom-based communications
   ●   Report Cards and Progress Reports
   ●   Volunteer Opportunities

Teacher and Staff Support Structures
Support for teachers that will help them analyze and accommodate various student learning
needs and support teacher collaboration:

   ● New Teacher Induction and Mentor Program
   ● District and School-Based Professional Development
   ● TAT Teams
   ● Grade-Level Meetings and Common Planning Time (CPT)
   ● Professional Learning Communities (PLCs)
   ● Faculty Meetings
   ● School-Based Data Meetings
   ● Academic Tutoring
   ● Teacher selected professional development opportunities
   ● Language Acquisition Teams
   ● Collaboration and consultation with Student Services staff including counselors, school
     psychologists, English Language (EL) teachers, speech pathologists, physical and
     occupational therapists, BCBAs, and other service providers
   ● Common Assessments/Benchmarking

Student Support Structures
Support structures that are available to students through general education, including support
to address the needs of students whose behavior may interfere with learning:

   ●   Collaborative Problem Solving
   ●   Restorative Practices
   ●   Behavior Plans
   ●   School Accommodation Plans
   ●   504 Accommodation Plans
   ●   Counseling (School Adjustment Counselor, Counselor, Psychologist)
   ●   TAT Team
   ●   Community Meetings
   ●   Morning Meetings
   ●   English Language Education
   ●   Co-taught class offerings
   ●   Interventions by Reading and Literacy Specialists
   ●   Interventions by Title I Staff (math, reading)
   ●   Homework Club



                                                                                               10
●   Instructional technology for reading and math (i.e., Lexia, iReady)
●   Differentiated Instruction
●   Peer Mentoring
●   Intervention Blocks
●   MHS partnership with Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School for “After
    Dark” access to technical education




                                                                                          11
                        Recommended Universal Accommodations

Accommodations are available to all students in the Marblehead Public School District. General
education teachers are strongly encouraged to use these and other accommodations to meet
the diverse learning needs of all students. This list is representative of suggested
accommodations and is not inclusive of all options that may be successful with students.

Academic/Instructional Supports
    ● Direct and systematic instruction in reading
    ● Arrange partner or small group instruction
    ● Apply Universal Design for Learning (UDL) strategies
    ● Provide wait time to encourage participation
    ● Provide flexible seating (i.e. stand-up desks, furniture arrangements within the
      classroom)
    ● Repeat or re-teach concepts as necessary based on informal and formal assessment
      results; focus on ensuring standards-based mastery
    ● Frequently monitor progress and provide feedback to student
    ● Instruct students in study skills and model these skills during instruction
    ● Utilize technology and approved computer-assisted instruction
    ● Provide reference tools, online options (i.e. Google classroom, websites, etc) and/or
      textbooks for homework support
    ● Provide study guides and/or review sheets with corresponding answer keys prior to the
      test
    ● Provide a scribe when needed to assess student mastery
    ● Allow the use of word processing and/or speech-to-text for assignments & assessments
    ● Provide graphic organizers and rubrics to support organization of written language
    ● Provide manipulative materials for mathematics instruction
    ● Use rubrics, checklists, teacher check-ins, calendars and project organizers to break
      down long-term assignments
    ● Provide clarification of directions
    ● Assess the time used to complete assignments to ensure students are not
      overextended
    ● Provide exemplars when appropriate
    ● Utilize alternate paper format when appropriate (i.e. graph paper)
    ● Provide alternate testing environment to reduce or eliminate distractions
    ● Provide a copy of class notes, handouts, and summaries of content, audio notes
    ● Break down tasks into manageable steps
    ● Provide extended time for tests/assignments when time is not a contributing factor of
      the assessment
    ● Allow multiple means of expression to assess student mastery (i.e. oral, portfolio, etc.)

Organizational Supports
   ● Provide daily schedule, agenda and objectives
                                                                                             12
   ●   Allow time for recording assignments
   ●   Use timer to cue for task focus, as appropriate
   ●   Begin each class with an ‘Opener’ and end each class with an ‘Exit Ticket’
   ●   Provide explicit instructions for organization of class materials and time management
       strategies
   ●   Utilize class or flex block time for binder checks and organization
   ●   Implement a system to ensure work completion, submission, and timely feedback
   ●   Provide organizational strategies to parents to implement at home
   ●   Provide frequent check-ins regarding organization

Social/Emotional and Behavioral Supports
   ● Post classroom expectations and routines in view of all students and review regularly
   ●   Involve student in “Lunch Bunch” groups/social skill groups
   ●   Arrange seating to promote increased engagement for all students (i.e., group students
   ●   Develop individual positive behavioral improvement plans
   ●   Utilize data in the form of charts and/or graphs to monitor expectations
   ●   Adjust classroom management strategies. Consider whole class rewards (i.e., earned
       extra recess, homework passes, ice cream party, etc.)
   ●   Utilize reinforcement procedures and antecedent interventions to promote proactive
       approaches
   ●   Consultation with behavior specialists for challenging behaviors
   ●   Scheduled check-ins with school counselors
   ●   Facilitate consistent and ongoing parent support strategies and communication
   ●   Include movement breaks, fidget tools, and energizers during instructional periods
   ●   Incorporate stress-release activities and opportunities as part of core curriculum
   ●   Maintain an organized & clean classroom environment to limit/eliminate distractions
   ●   Provide cueing and redirection
   ●   Inform student of changes to routines with as much lead time as possible




                                                                                               13
                                                             UDL Framework Accommodation List
The chart below lists the accommodations found on pages 12 & 13, but aligns each accommodation with the UDL framework of ensuring that all students have access to
multiple means of representation, multiple means of action & expressions, and multiple means of engagement.

                                                             ACADEMIC/INSTRUCTIONAL SUPPORTS
                                                                                                                   Representation   Action & Expression   Engagement
1    Direct and systematic instruction in reading                                                                        X                                    X
2    Appropriate services for linguistic minority students                                                               X                  X                 X
3    Arrange partner or small group instruction                                                                                             X                 X
4    Apply Universal Design for Learning (UDL) strategies                                                                X                  X                 X
5    Develop academic improvement plans                                                                                  X                                    X
6    Develop and implement student accommodation plans                                                                   X                                    X
7    Provide wait time to encourage participation                                                                        X                                    X
8    Provide flexible seating (i.e. stand-up desks, furniture arrangements within the classroom)                                                              X
     Repeat or re-teach concepts as necessary based on informal and formal assessment results; focus on
9    ensuring standards-based mastery                                                                                    X
10   Frequently monitor progress and provide feedback to student                                                                            X                 X
11   Instruct students in study skills and model these skills during instruction                                         X
12   Utilize technology and approved computer-assisted instruction                                                       X                  X                 X
     Provide reference tools, online options (i.e. Google classroom, websites, etc) and textbooks for homework
13   support                                                                                                                                                  X
14   Provide study guides and/or review sheets with corresponding answer keys at least one day prior to the test                                              X
15   Provide a scribe when needed to assess student mastery                                                                                 X
16   Allow the use of word processing and/or speech-to-text for assignments & assessments                                                   X                 X
17   Provide visual tools such as graphic organizers, rubrics, and exemplars                                             X
18   Provide manipulative materials for mathematics instruction                                                          X
19   Use rubrics, organizers, teacher check-ins, calendars and organizers to break down long-term assignments            X
20   Provide clarification of directions                                                                                                                      X
21   Survey students regarding time used to complete assignments                                                         X                  X
22   Provide exemplars when appropriate                                                                                  X
23   Utilize alternate paper format when appropriate (i.e. graph paper)                                                  X
24   Provide alternate testing environment to reduce or eliminate distractions                                           X                                    X
25   Provide a copy of class notes, handouts, and summaries of content                                                   X
26   Break down tasks into manageable steps                                                                              X                  X                 X
27   Offer extended time for tests/assignments when time is not a contributing factor of the assessment                                     X
28   Allow multiple means of expression to assess student mastery (i.e. oral, portfolio, etc.)                           X                  X                 X

                                                                                                                                                                       14
                                                                  ORGANIZATIONAL SUPPORTS
                                                                                                      Representation   Action & Expression   Engagement
1    Provide daily schedule and agenda and objectives                                                       X                                    X
2    Allow time for recording assignments                                                                   X
3    Use timer to cue for task focus                                                                        X
4    Collaborate with parents to monitor homework/study habits and create homework/study schedules          X                                    X
5    Utilize class or flex block time for binder checks and organization                                                        X
6    Implement a frequent progress monitoring system to ensure work completion & submission                 X                                    X
7    Provide organizational strategies to parents to implement at home                                                          X                X
8    Instruct students in organizational, planning, and time management strategies                                              X
9    Provide frequent check-ins regarding processes for organization                                        X                                    X
10   Post homework assignments consistently                                                                 X
11   Begin each class with an ‘Opener’ and end each class with an ‘Exit Ticket’                                                 X                X


                                                     SOCIAL/EMOTIONAL AND BEHAVIORAL SUPPORTS
                                                                                                     Representation    Action & Expression   Engagement

1    Post classroom expectations and routines in view of all students and review regularly                                                       X
2    Involve student in “Lunch Bunch” groups/social skill groups                                           X                                     X
3    Arrange seating to promote increased engagement for all students                                                                            X
4    Develop individual positive behavioral improvement plans                                                                                    X
5    Utilize data in the form of charts and/or graphs to monitor expectations                                                  X                 X
6    Adjust classroom management strategies and group contingencies                                        X
7    Utilize reinforcement procedures and antecedent interventions to promote proactive approaches                             X                 X
8    Identify and teach positive replacement behaviors                                                                                           X
9    Scheduled check-ins with school counselors or psychologists                                                               X                 X
10   Facilitate consistent and ongoing parent support strategies and communication                                             X                 X
11   Include movement breaks, fidget tools, and energizers during instructional periods                    X                                     X
12   Incorporate stress-release activities and opportunities as part of core curriculum                    X                                     X
13   Aim for an organized & clean classroom environment to limit/eliminate distractions                    X
14   Provide cueing and redirection                                                                                            X                 X
15   Inform student of changes to routines with as much lead time as possible                              X                                     X
16   Provide strategic seating                                                                                                                   X




                                                                                                                                                          15
                                              References

Reading Public Schools DCAP
Acton-Boxborough DCAP

Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE): Is Special Education the
Right Service?

Educator Effectiveness Guidebook for Inclusive Practices
           ● http://www.doe.mass.edu/edeval/guidebook/

Universal Design for Learning
           ● https://cast.org
           ● http://udlguidelines.cast.org/




                                                                                                  16
