                                 School Committee Meeting
                              Superintendent’s Conference Room
                                        9 Widger Road
                                 Marblehead, Massachusetts
                                   Open Session Minutes
                                       January 30, 2019


Members present: Meredith Tedford, Jennifer Schaeffner, David Harris, Sarah Gold and Meagan
Taylor

Meredith Tedford, the chair of the Committee, called the open session meeting to order at
7:30pm.

Ms. Tedford noted that there are scheduling issues that need to be addressed to keep the
Committee on track with budget preparations:
      March 18, 2019 - FinCom meeting to approve budget

The School Committee’s Public hearing for the FY20 budget is scheduled for 3/21/19, but will
need to be changed.
The School Committee will need to add multiple meetings in order to have our budget prepared
and ready on time. Ms. Tedford requested a list of dates that work for the Committee so that
meetings can be posted. If they end up being unnecessary, they will be cancelled.
The Committee can add meetings to discuss the FY20 budget on:
    ● 2/5/19 at 8:15am
    ● 2/6/19 at 7:30pm
    ● 2/11/19 at 7:30pm
    ● 2/12/19 at 8:15 am
All of these proposed additional meetings will be held at Widger Road.

Ms. Tedford noted that she will be absent from the regularly scheduled School Committee
meeting on 2/7/19 and Ms. Schaeffner will chair the 2/7/19 meeting.

Ms. Schaeffner made the motion to enter in Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts
General Law, chapter 30A, section 20(a), for the following purposes:
      (i)     Purpose (2) to conduct a strategy session in preparation for negotiations with
      nonunion personnel and to engage in contract negotiations with nonunion personnel,
      specifically the superintendent of schools; and
      (iii) Purpose (1) to discuss the discipline or dismissal of or complaints or charges
      brought against the superintendent of schools.
The motion was seconded by Ms. Gold

Roll Call vote: Ms. Tedford - yes
               Ms. Schaeffner - yes
               Mr. Harris - yes
               Ms. Gold - yes
               Ms. Taylor - yes

The Chair stated that the motion passed and that the Committee will be meeting in executive
session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A section 21(a) purpose (2) for the
following purposes to conduct a strategy session in preparation for negotiations with nonunion
personnel and to engage in contract negotiations with nonunion personnel, specifically the
superintendent of schools and purpose (1) to discuss the discipline or dismissal of or complaints
or charges brought against the superintendent of schools. The Chair stated that the Committee
will not be reconvening in open session.

The open session meeting ended at 7:39pm

Respectfully submitted,
Sarah Gold, Secretary




Approved 2/28/19
