                                Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                             Thursday, October 18, 2018
                                              Marblehead High School

Members Present:                         Meredith Tedford, Jennifer Schaeffner, Meagan Taylor
                                         David Harris, Sarah Gold

Also:                                    Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                         Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                         Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations
                                         Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                         Rachel Bowen, Director of Human Resources

Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm.

     B. Commendations
        Superintendent Perry explained that she will be presenting two deserving seniors with the Massachusetts
        Association of School Superintendents award for Academic Excellence. This award is given to high school
        students who have distinguished themselves in the pursuit of excellence during their high school careers.

         Dr. Perry stated that she would like to begin this evening by introducing two Marblehead High School Seniors
         who are receiving the Massachusetts Association of School Superintendents Award for Academic and Community
         Excellence. Both students being recognized this evening have demonstrated strong academic skills, participate in
         extracurricular and community service activities, and are currently in the top 5% of their graduating class.

         Recipients for the 2018-2019 Superintendent’s Award are Juliana Lederman and Alix Livermore. Dr. Perry asked
         Principal Bauer to present the awards to each student.

         Mr. Bauer gave the following brief bio for Juliana Lederman:

             •    Recipient of the Yale Book Award
             •    Recipient of the Junior Science Award
             •    Recipient of the Excellence in AP US History Award and the Excellence in Calculus Award
             •    Captain of the Math Team
             •    Founder of the National Science Honors Society
             •    Volunteers at the Salem Boys and Girls club and the Marblehead Community Center

         Alix Livermore:

             •    Gold medal winner in the National Spanish Exam
             •    Recipient of the Excellence in Chemistry Award and the Excellence in US Legal System Award
             •    Volunteer and website editor with Sustainable Marblehead
             •    Four-year member of the Track Team
             •    Writer for Headlight the school newspaper
             •    Vice President of the Student Council
             •    Treasurer for Junior States of America
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                         10/18/18

         ALICE Protocol

         Superintendent Perry noted that on October 29th at 7:00 pm there will be an ALICE session at the Veterans School
         for parents and guardians. She explained that the staff and faculty have already been trained and this presentation
         will be an information session about the district-wide initiative to update our approach to man-made emergencies.
         Students across the district will be participating in age-appropriate ALICE training and instruction after the
         parent/guardian information night. The presentation will provide an overview of the basic premise and scope of
         the ALICE safety and security protocols.

    C. Public Comment
       none

    D. Student Representative
       Dan Howells, Student Rep, Sophomore and Class President
       • Sophomore fundraiser at Minos on October 23rd
       • Freshman class officers have been elected
       • Open House for the upcoming 8th grade will take place on October 25th
       • There will be an Activity Fair on October 25th where all the clubs will have booths
       • The Freshman had a meeting regarding the Day of Service which is planned for October 24th
       • The Booster Bash will take place on October 20th with food, music and an auction at Tedesco
       • Fall sports are starting play-offs and the winter sport registrations have begun
       • Performing Arts band, chorus and orchestra will be going to hear the Boston Sympathy Orchestra on October
           24th

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
    1. Minutes: 9/20/18; 10/4/18
       Ms. Gold made motion to approve the SC meeting minutes of 9/20/18; 10/4/18 with noted changes. The motion
       was seconded by Ms. Schaeffner and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

         A changed was noted to the 9/20 minutes that under the approval of the 9/6 minutes, it should have read that Ms.
         Schaeffner reminded the community…….

         10/4 minutes note an addition to the section under Learning Days. Add that Ms. Taylor and Ms. Schaeffner asked
         about how the Distance Learning Days will be handled for students on an IEP.

    2.   Approval to declare drafting tables as surplus
         Ms. Schaeffner made motion to declare as surplus the drafting tables that are no longer useful. The motion was
         seconded by Ms. Taylor and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.


    3.   Approval to declare library books as surplus
         Ms. Schaeffner made motion to declare as surplus the library books from the Bell, Coffin and Gerry Schools that
         are either in poor physical condition, factually inaccurate, outdated, superseded by newer editions, no longer
         relevant to the curriculum, or not age appropriate. The motion was seconded by Ms. Gold and the Committee
         VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

    4.   Approval of updated Policy Manual
         Ms. Tedford noted that she has been working with Ms. Schaeffner for over two years on the Policy Manual to
         streamline and update in accordance with the new laws and MASC recommendations. She is asking the
         Committee to approve the entire manual with the exception of the following policies that will be updated at a later
         time (IJNDB; -IJNDB-E; -IJNDB-R; -IJNDC; -IJNDD).

         Ms. Schaeffner noted that MASC recommends that the policies in our manual are those that are required by
         statute.


                                                             2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                         10/18/18

         Exhibits or references, unless required by statute to be in the policy book, were removed. The Instructional Goals
         policy was a narrative of our goals and expectations and it is not required by statute and has been removed.
         Similarly the policy on Honors courses is more procedural rather than policy and not required by statute.

         Ms. Taylor had a few questions in relation to policies on physical education, transportation of students, meal
         charge policy, resignation of professional staff, and evaluation of the Superintendent. She noted that the policy
         states that the Committee will periodically develop with the Superintendent a set of performance objectives based
         on the needs of the school system. The Superintendent's performance will be reviewed in accordance with these
         specified goals and asked if it should instead state annually. Ms. Tedford noted that the policy would be
         superseded by the contract.

         Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the updated School Committee Policy Manual as presented. The motion
         was seconded by Mr. Harris and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

         Superintendent Perry thanked Ms. Schaeffner and Ms. Tedford for their hard work in updating this policy manual.
         Mr. Harris reiterated that same sentiment.

         Ms. Schaeffner noted that until the online policy manual can be updated, a hard copy will remain at Central
         Admin.

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        1. MHS Attendance update
           Dan Bauer, Principal at Marblehead High School and Michele Carlson, Assistant Principal, presented the data to
           this point in time compared to a year ago. Mr. Bauer noted that unexcused absences and tardies have dropped by
           almost half. Ms. Bauer noted that parents were sent a notice on methods of documenting different absences such
           as illness, death in the family, doctor appointment, etc. (this presentation will be with this meetings documents
           online)

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills
        #17110           $    450.00
        #17129           $ 41,454.41
        #17135           $ 8,455.00
        #17142           $    360.00
        #17146           $184,545.46
        #17148           $ 12,266.71
                         $247,531.58

       Motion to approve all schedules of bills totaling $247,531.58.

       Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the schedule of bills for October 18, 2018 totaling $247,531.58. The
       motion was seconded by Ms. Gold and the Committee VOTED unanimously in favor, 5-0.

    2. End of Fiscal Year18 Close out Report
       Ms. Maniaci presented her report and noted the following analysis: (the entire report can be found online at
       https://www.marbleheadschools.org/district/school-committee/pages/agendas-minutes-and-presentations

       FY18 Closeout Total Expenditure Analysis
         At final fiscal close, week 52 of a 52 week fiscal year we have balanced the operating budget. The operating
         budget has been fully expended and additional salary and expense costs from grant and special revenue funds
         appear in a worksheet within this closeout report.

          Final grand total operating expenditures both salary and expenses balanced at $36,539,604 expended, or 100% of



                                                             3
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                              10/18/18

          total FY18 operating budget.
         • This is 5.1% increase over fiscal 17 operating budget of $34,754,708 expended

          Final encumbrances total $0
         • All remaining open/unused encumbrances and open POs were liquidated during the closeout.

       Brief items noted were:
        • Revenue for Food services up 16% from last year
        • The Glover kitchen was very well received and parents love the early drop off
        • Annual reviews of fees show that we are finally meeting the program needs from money collected
        • Unemployment costs are held down by appealing any inappropriate unemployment claims
        • We are currently handling substitutes in house
       Challenges:
        • Sped increases were incredibly large with a large increase in tuition-out
        • A hiring freeze held off re-hiring the Village librarian last year and deferred science kit purchases last year
        • User fees had to be used to handle transportation fees

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. BCG Building Update
      Mr. Harris noted that they met with the Selectmen last Wednesday. The presentation was that which was presented
      to the MSBA Facilities Assessment Committee a few weeks prior. On October 31, we will appear before the
      MSBA Board and if we receive their approval we will be free to begin the Schematic Design phase. The Project
      Scope and Budget will go to the MSBA in December and will review and report back for reimbursable space.

       Mr. Harris thanked the Building Committee for their hard work and dedication on this project.
       Gerry Building Committee
       Emily Barron-Community Member                                   Jeremy Pollander-Community Member
       Jackie Belf-Becker-Board of Selectmen Chair                     Elizabeth Rudzinski-Coffin Special Education Teacher
       Benjamin Berman-Finance Committee                               Sean Satterfield-Principal Coffin/Gerry Schools
       Eileen D’Amour-Coffin/Gerry Music Teacher                       Cindy Schieffer-Community Member
       Sarah Fox-Community Member                                      Aimee Sheppard-Bell Teacher
       David Harris-GSBC Chairman & School Committee                   Jason Silva-Town Administrator
       Ken Lord-MPS Exec Director of Tech & Operations                 Ben Szalewicz-Community Member
       Kelly Lyons-Community Member                                    Ralph Wallace-Community Member
       Amanda Maniaci-MPS Business Manager                             Erik Weibust-Community Member
       Catherine Martin-Community Member                               Donna Zaeske-Principal Bell School
       Maryann Perry-MPS Superintendent                                Jim Zisson-Community Member

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
        Ms. Tedford noted that there will be an executive session school committee meeting on Monday, October 22nd at
        8:15am.

        The November 1, 2018 School Committee meeting will be held at the Village School and will be taped and shown
        at a later date on MHTV. The meeting will begin at 6:30pm to accommodate the students.

        Ms. Tedford asked the Committee if the Thursday, December 6th meeting could be switched to Wednesday,
        December 5th due to conflicts on the 6th. All noted they should be able to attend however Ms. Gold stated that she
        will not be at the November 1 meeting and Mr. Harris stated that he will not be at the November 15th meeting.

    B. Correspondence

    C. Adjournment
       A motion to adjourn was made and seconded and the Committee VOTED to adjourn at 8:45pm.

                                                                            Respectfully submitted,
                                                                            Sarah Gold



                                                            4
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                            10/18/18

                                                     Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
Minutes: 9/20/18; 10/4/18
Approval to declare drafting tables as surplus
Approval to declare library books as surplus
Approval of updated Policy Manual
MHS Attendance update
Schedule of Bills
End of Fiscal Year 18 Report




Approved 11/15/2018




                                                 5
