                                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                             Thursday, November 1, 2018
                                                   Village School

Members Present:                          Meredith Tedford, Jennifer Schaeffner, Meagan Taylor

Also:                                     Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                          Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                          Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations
                                          Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                          Rachel Bowen, Director of Human Resources

Members Absent:                           David Harris, Sarah Gold

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 6:30 pm. Ms. Tedford noted that this meeting is not televised live but
        will be shown by MHTV on Thursday, November 8 at 7:00pm and Friday, November 9 at 12:30pm.

Village School presentation
Students from the Village School presented music pieces, robotics, journals in Goggle keep, an unusual vocabulary and
definition methods as well as a brief summary of a book written.

     B. Commendations
        Ms. Tedford acknowledged the family of Sophia Smith and sent out the Committee and community’s condolences.

         Dr. Perry thanked the support of the Marblehead Police department.

         Ms. Tedford commended Principal Dan Bauer for talking to the potential incoming freshman.

     C. Public Comment

     D. Student Representative
        Dan Howells, Student Rep, Sophomore and Class President
        • This past Tuesday was a free showing of the movie “8th grade”
        • Mariners Revenge will be performing for the dramafest competition in March. Auditions are this Monday
        • Veterans Day – Marblehead High School Chorus will play at Abbot Hall
        • Powder Puff practices are going on
        • Nov 17th is the Progressive Dinner for the Seniors
        • Nov 20th there is a concert at Marblehead High School library
        • First quarter ends on November 7th

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
    1. HS LED update proposal
       Mr. Lord stated that he has been working with Engie and Standard Electric on a proposal to upgrade the lighting in
       the HS Gym and Cafeteria. The project would replace all the lighting fixtures in both the HS Gym and Cafeteria
       with efficient LED fixtures. This would address operational issues with the lighting as well as present us with
       significant cost savings in our electrical bill. The request is that the School Committee approve a contract with
       Engie in the amount of $70,613.00 for this project over a 48 month period. The lights in the gym will be replaced
       over Christmas vacation and those in the cafeteria over February vacation. The monthly payments would come
       from our electrical utility budget derived from the savings produced by the switch to LED. Ms. Schaeffner asked
       about any incentives from MMLD. Mr. Lord indicated that he had asked that question and there are no incentives
       available at this time through any municipal light department.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                          11/1/18

        Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the High School LED proposal. The motion was seconded by Ms. Taylor
        and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 3-0, in favor.

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        1. Recap of Service Learning Day –Mr. Bauer noted that the Learning Day of Service was a success. Mr. Bauer
           thanked Mr. Ron Grenier, twenty-one MHS Teacher volunteers, Site Sponsors & the Town of Marblehead, MPS
            Central Administration and the Students! He noted that 259 students went out in the town of Marblehead for
            service. Every student was well behaved, seemed to enjoy what they were doing even after the weather turned
            poorly. Feedback from teachers and students is that they’d like to do it again, they’d like more options, would
            like to do it more than once a year and perhaps incorporate into the curriculum and the students thought students
            could be asked for suggestions of where to perform service.

       2. MHS 1:1 Update
          Mr. Bauer noted that there has been much preparation for this program that began in September.
          Each student on free or reduced lunch status were given a chromebook, signed a responsibility agreement and
          the chromebooks will be collected and redistributed at the end of the year. Those who needed financial
          assistance also signed an agreement and a payment plan was setup. We were able to purchase chrome book
          storage lockboxes for each class which were partially funded by the PCO and The Friends. These lock boxes
          will contain three chromebooks for lending. Surveys will be sent out to staff and students to address any
          questions or concerns and we will present an update on the success of this program.

       3. Facilities/Maintenance Update/Facilities Sub-Committee Update
          Mr. Lord introduced Todd Bloodgood, the new Facilities Director. Mr. Bloodgood noted issues he and his staff
          are working on in relation to heating and air conditioning, lighting issues, truck problems as well as working
          with one of our vendors to have green buildings. He noted they are working on safety trainings. Creating a
          document that outlines maintenance issues and if our budget is adequate, prioritizing capital projects , override
          initiatives, etc.

           Ms. Schaeffner noted that the Facilities Sub-Committee has been going through each facility starting at the HS
           and looking at major and minor repairs and maintenance that need to be addressed. She additionally noted that
           they are also looking at athletic fields and facilities. Next meeting will be at the High School.

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills
            #17166       $ 9,586.00
            #17171       $    403.15
            #17193       $    180.00
            #17201       $279,286.40
            #17202       $ 24,736.74
            #17207       $ 29,330.38
            #17211       $ 10,415.52
                         $353,938.19

        Motion to approve all schedules of bills totaling $353,938.19.

       Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the schedule of bills for November 1, 2018 totaling $353,938.19. The
       motion was seconded by Ms. Taylor and the Committee VOTED unanimously in favor, 3-0.

    2. YTD Budget Executive Summary
       Ms. Maniaci presented her report and noted that the biggest challenge is the Special Education Tuition-out
       commitments. It was a challenge last year and continues to be so this year. The budget is frozen to defer all non-
       essential goods and purchases toward the sped tuition.




                                                             2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                        11/1/18



V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. BCG Building Update
      Ms. Tedford stated that they will be doing community outreach soon. Superintendent Perry noted that we were
      invited to go before the MSBA on Wednesday, October 31st. Due to the Red Sox celebration and the Salem
      Halloween traffic we were allowed to call in rather than attend in person. Dr. Perry gave a brief overview of some
      of the areas that have been defined for the school. She also noted that Gene Raymond and his crew and Leftfield
      have been a pleasure to work with and that we will soon begin the community outreach. Ms. Schaeffner noted that
      we have been approved to go to the next level for the Schematic Design and the last step will be the full scope and
      budget. She observed that most districts are also taking smaller school and combining them into one larger building
      of 400-6 or 700 students.

        Ms. Tedford noted that we will add a joint meeting on December 13th which will be held at the Glover School at
        7:00pm. Due to that joint meeting, we will cancel our School Committee meeting of December 20th. Also, our
        scheduled December 6th meeting has been changed to Wednesday, December 5th due to conflicts on the 6th.

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
        Ms. Schaeffner noted that resident Jody McGee contacted her about a proposal that he presented to her and other
        the members. She explained that the Committee has reviewed the proposal and this will be discussed at the next
        meeting when all the members are present.

    B. Correspondence
       Ms. Tedford noted that in the absence of Ms. Gold, she will send out a thank you to the Village School. Ms.
       Schaeffner asked for a thank you to go out to Rep. Lori Ehrlich's office and Senator Brendan Creighton's office for
       sending representatives to support MPS at the MSBA meeting.

    C. Adjournment
       A motion to adjourn was made and seconded and the Committee VOTED to adjourn at 8:10pm.

                                                                          Respectfully submitted,
                                                                          Sarah Gold
                                                                          Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
HS LED update proposal
Recap of Service Learning Day
Schedule of Bills
YTD Budget Executive Summary




Approved 11/15/2018




                                                            3
