                                  Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                         Thursday, January 10, 2019 6:00 pm
                                                Marblehead High School

Members Present:                           Meredith Tedford, Jennifer Schaeffner, David Harris
                                           Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor

Also:                                      Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                           Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                           Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations
                                           Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                           Rachel Bowen, Director of Human Resources

Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm. She explained that this is a workshop to discuss the FY19
        Special Education deficit because out of district placements are constantly changing. The Committee will review
        the proposed transfers that have been identified and the principals are here to speak about the implications of these
        cuts. Ms. Tedford also noted she will send the Committee members the audit report by Friday.

         Dr. Perry asked Mr. Bellucci the Director of Student Services to give an overview of the out of district placements.
         Mr. Bellucci stated that, in a nutshell, anyone can make a referral and once a child is referred, the district must do
         an evaluation. If the student is found to be eligible for services, we then have to provide what is needed. If we
         don’t have what is recommended in district then we have to look to an outside source. As well as special needs
         students, we also must educate students who are being suspended and if we cannot meet those needs in district or
         if a student is a safety risk it could be that this student cannot return to our district but we are still obligated to
         provide education to that student. At times some students require residential day or night services. We also have
         many referrals for language based students to attend Landmark partly because it is so geographically close by. Our
         district does provide these services from grade 2 through high school but if a student in our program isn’t making
         progress, then a parent has the right to ask for their child to be sent to Landmark. At any point in time, a parent
         can challenge the service we are providing. In addition, any of our students who are in medical facilities must be
         transported and transportation costs are high.

         Dr. Perry stated that as of today, the school district has a deficit of $731,411 that needs to be closed by June 2019.
         We have identified transfers totaling $200,000. These transfers will have an impact on teaching and learning.

         Ms. Maniaci, School Business Manager, noted that the transfers are from the operating budget into the Special
         Education tuition-out line.

         1. $20,000 from facilities and custodian salary lines – freeze overtime. Rearranging how we can cover overtime.

         2. $60,000 cut in curriculum central line which stopped the purchase of FOSS science kits. Teachers are currently
         sharing the kits. Dr. Smith noted that it will impact curriculum expansion, will limit RTI, Math and Science
         Curriculum as well as affect social emotional kits for bullying prevention.

         3. $50,000 cut from computer maintenance equipment. Mr. Lord, Tech Director, stated that with the 3rd grade
         MCAS going to electronic format, we will need more computers but we will hold off on purchasing additional
         computers.

         4. $30,000 from the athletic and coach budget which will cut new uniform purchases and equipment.

         5. $10,000 cut to HS principal’s text books and instructional supplies. High School Principal Mr. Bauer noted
         they will hold off updating the social studies books.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                            1/10/2016 6:00pm mtg


         6. $10,000 from the middle school technology line. Veterans School Principal Mr. Fox stated that his school-wide
         walkie-talkie system is over 11 years old and not working properly but they will not update the system at this time.
         Also, they will not purchase Chrome books for 8th graders who will need to use them in the 9th grade.
         Additionally, some sections of MCAS require the use of a calculator. In the past we would provide calculators and
         some of these are no longer working but we will not be able to replace the calculators.

         7. $5,000 cut from the Village School books and periodicals line. Ms. Murphy explained that the major goal on
         their school improvement plan will be affected by this cut as there will be no access to added resources for
         teachers to reach students above or below the mark.

         8. $3,000 from the Bell School books and instructional equipment. Bell School Principal Ms. Zaeske stated that
         the majority of her budget is on supplies. They will not be buying non-fiction books. Coffin and Glover School
         Principals Mr. Satterfield and Mr. Ota also stated that this cut will prohibit getting new science books, science kits
         and will slow down library purchases.

         9. $3,000 from Glover School books and periodicals

         10. $3,000 from Glover Replacement of Equipment (instructional)

         11. $2,000 from Coffin School Books and Periodicals

         12. $4,000 from Coffin School Replacement of Equipment (instructional)

         Dr. Perry noted that even if these transfers are voted through tonight, it still means a hard budget freeze as we have
         a remaining deficit of $531,411. The only thing left to discuss is a reduction in force.

         Ms. Tedford noted that any and all cuts impact both the general education students as well as the special education
         students.

         Ms. Schaeffner stated that the Committee will be discussing the FY18 budget, the FY19 budget as well as the
         FY20 budget. These cuts are only a temporary fix to a problem.

         Mr. Harris noted that we are paying bill from Circuit Breaker funds that comes in per quarter and that the
         reimbursement is based on last year’s numbers.

    C. Adjournment
       A motion to adjourn was made and seconded and the Committee VOTED to adjourn at 7:00pm.

                                                                             Respectfully submitted,
                                                                             Sarah Gold
                                                                             Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
Budget Transfers




Approved 2/7/2019




                                                               2
