                                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                            Wednesday, December 5, 2018
                                               Marblehead High School

Members Present:                          Meredith Tedford, Jennifer Schaeffner, David Harris
                                          Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor

Also:                                     Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                          Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                          Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations
                                          Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                          Rachel Bowen, Director of Human Resources
                                          Robert Bellucci, Dir. Of Student Services & Program Acct.

Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm.

     B. Commendations
        Mr. Harris recognized the passing of the 41st president George H.W. Bush.

         Superintendent Perry noted that the president of the Magic Hat, Wendy Roworth, is stepping down from her role
         and thanked her for her many years of service. Ms. Suzanne Pirker will be taking over for her.

         Ms. Tedford thanked the Boosters and the community who supported the initiative.

         Mr. Harris noted he felt it was worth recognizing the Guidance Department for all the work they do during this
         time of the year preparing the paperwork for all the college applications.

         Ms. Tedford thanked Mr. James Maroney of MHTV and the students helping him this evening.

     C. Public Comment
        None

     D. Student Representative
        Dan Howells, School Committee Student Representative, Sophomore, and Class President
        All grades at the High School had the ALICE training protocols today
        Students for the Spanish Exchange program arrived this week
        Winter sports have begun
        Marblehead's Got Talent performing arts competition at the Marblehead High-School has begun
        Winter Concerts will be held at the PAC on December 18th
        The last day of school before winter break will be December 21st

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
    1. SC Minutes: 11/15/2018
       Additions and changes were noted and these minutes will be voted on at the next meeting.

     2. Outdated and broken Athletic Equipment for surplus
        Ms. Gold made motion to consider outdated and broken athletic equipment as surplus. The motion was seconded
        by Mr. Harris and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                         12/5/18


III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        1. Distance Learning Days
           Dr. Perry noted that she is coming before the Committee with a high level overview of what was previously
           presented regarding Distance Learning Days. She stated that they have worked with the union, teachers, and
           administrators to come up with what we feel are a solid pilot plan for two days for the 2018-2019 school year.

           Mr. Fox presented a power point and explained the recommendations for each of the scenarios.

           Dr. Perry further explained that we have an agreement with the Union as well as the Cafeteria Union and it is
           understood that those not primarily concerned with teaching will have professional development responsibilities
           for that day which will be deliverable in 7 days. The Power Point will be online with this meeting’s documents
           at: https://www.marbleheadschools.org/district/school-committee/pages/agendas-minutes-and-presentations

           Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve two Distance Learning Days for the 2018-2019 school year. The
           motion was seconded by Ms. Gold and the Committee VOTED unanimously in favor.

       2. Student Teacher Placement - Salem State University
          Dr. Perry noted that Ms. Bowen and Dr. Smith have been meeting with Salem State on a partnership for
          Marblehead Public Schools to accept student teacher placements beginning in the 2019-2020 school year. Ms.
          Bowen explained that the partnership is with the School of Education’s Joint Bachelor Degree Program, a four-
          year undergraduate program, combined with a year-long master of education program. This combined bachelor
          and master of education teacher preparation concentration is the university’s path to licensure to teach in the
          public schools. Student teachers may be placed in the following areas:
               • Early Childhood (preschool to second grade)
               • Elementary (first to sixth grade)
               • Secondary (middle/high school English, history or mathematics)
               • Specialist (Spanish World Language, physical education)
          Marblehead Schools will provide practicum fellowships for up to six (6) student teachers completing the
          practicum component of their educator preparation program. The student teachers will work according to the
          district calendar for the full school year. The cost to the Marblehead Schools for each fellow is estimated to be
          $7,800 per full school year. Salem State University program is a Massachusetts Department of Elementary and
          Secondary Education approved educator preparation program. The partnership will meet or exceed all policy
          requirements. Ms. Maniaci noted that this is similar to the program we currently have with the Endicott Fellows
          but would be at a lower cost to MPS.

           Ms. Schaeffner made motion to that MPS enter into an initial partnership with Salem State University to accept
           student teacher placements in the Marblehead Schools beginning in the 2019-2020 school year. The motion was
           seconded by Ms. Taylor and the Committee VOTED unanimously in favor.

       3. Special Education Report/Financial
          Mr. Bellucci introduced his Special Education Administrators and educators. Each gave a brief description of
          their role and their department’s role for the various special education programs in Marblehead Public Schools.
          Topics covered in the presentation were:
          • Basics of Curriculum Support at the High School
          • Universal Design for Learning (UDL) Approach to Teaching-Collaboration in Meeting the Needs of All
               Learners
          • Practices Used by General and Special Educators to Modify and Differentiate Math Instruction and
               Alignment to Grade Level Smart Goals
          • Making Bournedale an Inclusive Experience
          • Using Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC)
          • Our Integrated Pre-K Classrooms
          • Special Education Programs Overview-Fall 2018


                                                             2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                           12/5/18

          •    FY19 Special Education Financials Forecast and Programming Expenses and Commitments, including
               other Sources of Funding
          •    Current and Future Conversations with Town Administrator and FinCom

          The entire report can be found online at: https://www.marbleheadschools.org/district/school-
          committee/pages/agendas-minutes-and-presentations )

          Ms. Schaeffner noted that she’d like the Committee to address this shortfall at the beginning of the year.

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills
        #17282   $     665.00
        #17323   $     270.00
        #17326   $ 11,260.00
        #17329   $ 29,723.31
        #17334   $235,996.68
        #17335   $ 1,340.00
        #17337   $ 16,534.64
        #17338   $ 55,004.00
                 $350,793.63

        Motion to approve all schedules of bills totaling $350,793.63 was made by Ms. Gold and seconded by Ms. Taylor.
        The Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. BCG Building Update
      Mr. Harris noted that the last building committee meeting was last week and the next meeting will be a joint
      meeting with the School Committee on December 13th where the Building Committee will be looking for approval
      to submit the Schematic Design to the MSBA. The major component is the project budget. Mr. Harris noted that on
      further review the two elementary Principals identified 14 doors that were not even needed which will be a savings
      on the project. The final number is in line with what we submitted to the MSBA in our PSR. Due to the
      unanticipated under layers of roofing that contain asbestos, the estimator will return with a new estimate on
      Monday or Tuesday.

    2. School Committee Mid-Year evaluation process
       Ms. Tedford presented the Committee with a copy of their Operating Protocols and asked that the members review
       them, fill them out and return them to her. We anticipate discussing this on one of the January agendas.

    3. Gerry parking
       Superintendent Perry noted that over the past two years there has been concern and public comment sessions via
       meetings and emails as to what the future of the playground at the Gerry School. Administration has researched
       and spoken to Town leaders as well as listened to the public comment. Concern at that time from parents was the
       safety of students using the blacktop area. Once the building was closed, we continue to have the responsibility to
       keep the building safe. All considerations were discussed and since we cannot patrol the parking situation nor can
       the police monitor that lot, it seems unnecessary to add signage that cannot be reinforced. The best solution for all
       involved seemed to be to follow the Town’s parking ban which begins November 1st and ends April 1st or
       somewhere thereabouts depending on weather. This will allow the community to park in that space when they
       cannot park on the street and children are less apt to be playing there once it starts getting dark around 4:00pm. In
       April we will place the chain back up to block the lot and to allow children to play in that area safely. We have not
       received any emails except from one member who thanked us for allowing parking. We must note that parking is
       allowed in back of school at any time.

       Ms. Taylor made a motion to change the signage at the Gerry School. Mr. Harris seconded the motion for
       discussion.




                                                             3
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                          12/5/18

         Mr. Harris noted that maybe we could put up a courtesy sign that reminds people that this is a playground and park
         with caution. Ms. Gold suggested that perhaps a simple sign such as “Caution, children at play” could remind
         people of the multiple uses of the area.

         Ms. Taylor noted that she felt since we have children picked up and dropped off at that playground, we have a
         responsibility to keep it safe.

         Ms. Schaeffner noted that we cannot enforce it nor will the police enforce it thereby making a parking ban signage
         unenforceable.

         Ms. Tedford expressed that she would only be comfortable with a “Caution children at play” sign but nothing more
         since we cannot enforce it. She asked how the Committee felt on this matter and noted that the majority of the
         Committee is in favor of courtesy signage and all members agreed.

         Mr. Harris reminded the community that during the daytime that area is used for a playground and to please be
         respectful of this and only park cars there overnight.

     VI. Closing Business
     A. New Business
         Ms. Tedford noted that the next School Committee meeting will be a joint meeting with the Building
         Committee and will be held on December 13, 2018 at the Glover School.

     B. Correspondence

     C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn was made and seconded and the Committee VOTED to adjourn at 10:15pm.

                                                                            Respectfully submitted,
                                                                            Sarah Gold
                                                                            Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
SC Minutes: 11/15/2018
Outdated and broken Athletic Equipment for surplus
Distance Learning Days
Student Teacher Placement - Salem State University
Special Education Report/Financial
Schedule of Bills
BCG Building Update
School Committee Mid-Year evaluation process
Gerry parking




Approved 1/10/2019




                                                              4
