                                     Marblehead School Committee
                                           December 5, 2018
                                               7:00 PM
                                     Marblehead High School Library


I.   Initial Business and Public Involvement
     1. Call to Order

     2.   Commendations

     3.   Public Comment

     4.   Student Representative-Dan Howells

II. Consent Agenda& Action Items
    1. SC Minutes: 11/15/2018
    2. Outdated and broken Athletic Equipment for surplus

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        1. Distance Learning Days
        2. Student Teacher Placement - Salem State University
        3. Special Education Report/Financial


IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. BCG Building Update
   2. School Committee Mid-Year evaluation process
   3. Gerry parking

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
    B. Correspondence
    C. Adjournment
                                                                                                            File: BEDH

                        PUBLIC COMMENT AT SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETINGS


All regular and special meetings of the School Committee shall be open to the public. Executive sessions will be
held only as prescribed by the Statutes of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

The School Committee desires citizens of the District to attend its meetings so that they may become better
acquainted with the operations and the programs of our local public schools. In addition, the Committee would like
the opportunity to hear the wishes and ideas of the public.

In order that all citizens who wish to be heard before the Committee have a chance and to ensure the ability of the
Committee to conduct the District's business in an orderly manner, the following rules and procedures are adopted:

1.   At the start of each regularly scheduled School Committee meeting, individuals or group representatives will be
     invited to address the Committee. The Chair shall determine the length of the public participation segment.

2.   Speakers will be allowed three (3) minutes to present their material. The presiding Chair (or a majority vote of
     the committee) may permit extension of this time limit.

3.   Individuals may address topics, within the scope of responsibility of the School Committee.

4.   Improper conduct and remarks will not be allowed. Defamatory or abusive remarks are always out of order. If a
     speaker persists in improper conduct or remarks, the Chair may terminate that individual's privilege of address.

5.   All remarks will be addressed through the Chair of the meeting.

6.   Speakers may offer such objective criticisms of the school operations and programs as concern them, but in
     public session the Committee will not hear personal complaints of school personnel nor against any member of
     the school community. Under most circumstances, administrative channels are the proper means for disposition
     of legitimate complaints involving staff members.

7.   Written comments longer than three (3) minutes may be presented to the Committee before or after the meeting
     for the Committee members' review and consideration at an appropriate time.

8.   Public Comment is not a discussion, debate, or dialogue between citizens and the Committee. It is a citizen's
     opportunity to express his/her opinion on issues of School Committee business. The Committee and/or
     administrator's may not be prepared to directly respond to citizen questions posed in this forum but the Chair
     may request that citizens put the question in writing to the appropriate person or body so that the matter is given
     the proper consideration.


SOURCE: Marblehead Approved 10/18/18
