                                   Marblehead School Committee
                                         February 25, 2019
                                             7:00pm
                              Marblehead High School Conference Room

                                                     Agenda

                                      Budget & Transition Workshop


I.   Call to Order
     Motion and vote to meet in executive session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A, section
     21(a) for the following purposes:
               • Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the Marblehead
                    Education Association Unit A regarding a request for additional sick leave days for one employee
               • Approval of executive session minutes

II. Executive Session Agenda
    1. Meeting to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the Marblehead Education
       Association Unit A regarding a request for additional sick leave days for one employee.
    2. Approval of Executive Session Minutes 1/30/19 and 2/5/19


Return to Open Session


III. Consent Agenda& Action Items
     1. Budget Sub-Committee Mtg. Minutes: 1/24/19@ 2:30pm (in packet)                            (vote)
     2. High School unused books declared as surplus (in packet)                                  (vote)
     3. DECA State competition (overnight) (in packet)                                            (vote)
     4. Salary range recommendation for the position of Interim Director of Student Services,     (vote)
        a one year appointment for the period of July 1, 2019 - June 30, 2020


8:00PM Administration Transition Workshop with Dorothy Presser from MASC



IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills (in packet)                                                              (vote)
    2. FY19 Budget transfers $78,275 approval (in packet)                                         (vote)
    3. FY20 Budget Discussion



V. Closing Business
   1. New Business
   2. Correspondence
   3. Adjournment




                             Marblehead School Committee Vision Statement

A model school district, exemplary in its student engagement and academic excellence, where all
students meet their highest potential with the support of outstanding instructional leadership and in
partnership with the community.
                                                                                                          File: BEDH

                     PUBLIC COMMENT AT SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETINGS


All regular and special meetings of the School Committee shall be open to the public. Executive sessions will be
held only as prescribed by the Statutes of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

The School Committee desires citizens of the District to attend its meetings so that they may become better
acquainted with the operations and the programs of our local public schools. In addition, the Committee would
like the opportunity to hear the wishes and ideas of the public.

In order that all citizens who wish to be heard before the Committee have a chance and to ensure the ability of
the Committee to conduct the District's business in an orderly manner, the following rules and procedures are
adopted:

   1. At the start of each regularly scheduled School Committee meeting, individuals or group representatives
      will be invited to address the Committee. The Chair shall determine the length of the public participation
      segment.

   2. Speakers will be allowed three (3) minutes to present their material. The presiding Chair (or a majority
      vote of the committee) may permit extension of this time limit.

   3. Individuals may address topics, within the scope of responsibility of the School Committee.

   4. Improper conduct and remarks will not be allowed. Defamatory or abusive remarks are always out of
      order. If a speaker persists in improper conduct or remarks, the Chair may terminate that individual's
      privilege of address.

   5. All remarks will be addressed through the Chair of the meeting.

   6. Speakers may offer such objective criticisms of the school operations and programs as concern them, but
      in public session the Committee will not hear personal complaints of school personnel nor against any
      member of the school community. Under most circumstances, administrative channels are the proper
      means for disposition of legitimate complaints involving staff members.

   7. Written comments longer than three (3) minutes may be presented to the Committee before or after the
      meeting for the Committee members' review and consideration at an appropriate time.

   8. Public Comment is not a discussion, debate, or dialogue between citizens and the Committee. It is a
      citizen's opportunity to express his/her opinion on issues of School Committee business. The Committee
      and/or administrator's may not be prepared to directly respond to citizen questions posed in this forum
      but the Chair may request that citizens put the question in writing to the appropriate person or body so
      that the matter is given the proper consideration.




    *SC members using computers during school committee meetings will neither send nor receive text messages or
    emails during meetings, except for fact finding or emergency situations that are preapproved by the Board.
