                               Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                              Friday, March 1, 2019
                                           School Administrative Offices

Members Present:                         Meredith Tedford, Jennifer Schaeffner, David Harris
                                         Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor


Members Absent:                          David Harris

    1. Call to Order
       Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 8:15am.

    2. FY20 Budget
       Ms. Tedford and Ms. Schaeffner noted that they have been sidelined by the FY18 budget deficit, and therefore are
       behind in discussion on the FY20 budget. This deficit has been discussed at multiple meetings and we asked what
       we could do to close but were only given one option and that was to find it within our budget. Ms. Schaeffner
       noted that we did not received any advice on any other options.

       Ms. Tedford stated that she and Ms. Schaeffner would be meeting with the Finance Committee. We generate
       documents to see if the number provided is sufficient or if we will need to ask for more than was given but
       generally this meeting takes place between the Superintendent, School Finance Director and the Town
       Administrator. Since we don’t have anyone in that role at this time, how are we to handle this? In other towns, the
       School Committee presents their own budget to the Town but not here in Marblehead. Our challenge is that our
       legal counsel is providing us with advice but the Finance committee has not. Ms. Tedford stated her concern on
       how the school district is going to present on March 18th. Ms. Schaeffner stated that perhaps we present the
       Finance Committee with a one page memo that is read by the Finance Committee or maybe by Ms. Nieto, the
       Town Accountant, presents the budget request from the School Committee. Ms. Tedford stated that she would like
       to know what the different scenarios are between now and town meeting.

       Ms. Taylor noted that hopefully the finance liaisons, town administrator and school committee will work together
       for suggestions on how to handle our budget.

       Ms. Tedford reminded the Committee that the District has set priorities and when we say we are going to cut a
       huge line in curriculum and district initiatives we must remember that this will impact many of our programs such
       as PBIS, Socio-emotional, and Inclusion initiatives. We now have a changing student body, with higher per
       student costs, and this means staffing to service the needs of all of these students. We need to analyze and monitor
       these programs as they grow and change since we’ve had a significant increase in students on IEPs.

       Ms. Tedford noted that she and Ms. Schaeffner will be meeting with the Town Administrator today and hopefully
       after this meeting we will have an idea of how we can proceed with our budget. We will continue to monitor
       enrollment and depending on those numbers, there may be additional classes we can cut which would be helpful
       but this information might not be known until after the budget is done. We have already accounted for one
       reduction in kindergarten class and there may be a potential for a first grade but again these numbers change
       during the summer and after budget season.

       Ms. Tedford noted that the reserve fund is not part of our operating budget. Chapter 70 money goes to the Town’s
       general fund and the Town appropriates it. We need funding sources for increased special education tuition and
       for increase in transportation. Ms. Maniaci forecasted a $300,000 increase in our of district costs next year and we
       need to discuss how we work with Alison Nieto for short term as she will be working with our business clerks
       until we hire an interim business manager. We have cut so tightly this year that if anything comes up we may not
       know it unless we have someone as a business manager. If we go through our appropriation, Meredith said, and
       we still have bills coming in, then those bills that couldn’t be paid would go to “unpaid bills.”

       Ms. Tedford noted that she has to speak to Jason Silva about the new out of district placement for $18,000 which
       we just received.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                     3/1/2019

    If our budget doesn’t meet our needs we will need to consider raising funds other ways. Some options could be:
         • Raise student fees
         • Bring to town meeting to raise revenue
         • ask for free cash-one time (free cash can only come from a vote at town meeting vote)
         • an override
         • Cut expenses more

    Ms. Schaeffner noted that the Committee needs to discuss the Capital Outlay as well as the Fleet requests as we
    feel these repairs have to be done or the repairs will get worst and the increase in costs will be more. Ms. Tedford
    noted that it is important that we inform the community the difference between regular maintenance and capital
    outlay repairs however we seem to only have two options and that would be to make cuts and not make repairs or
    raise taxes. Ms. Tedford noted that the suggestion to lease a plow truck or mini bus is one that should be pursued.
    We will try to get costs for renting busses for athletics/clubs versus owning our own 14 passenger van.

    Ms. Taylor wondered how do we address the $1million SPED budget over level fund? Her thoughts were that:
                 1. That is the bigger issue to the budget
                 2. It’s not going away and we need to build new programs in order to make a change in that in the
                       future.
                 3. We will have fresh eyes on the situation with the new SPED director
    It was agreed that these are ongoing conversations with FinComm, the community and the School Committee and
    we need to see what people are saying at every level.

    Ms. Tedford and Ms. Schaeffner stated they will take notes at their meeting with Jason Silva and send it in memo
    form to the rest of the School Committee.

    It was agreed that everything is on the table at this point and the School Committee needs to continue to talk this
    through this in order to decide.

    Discussion about Building Committee
    It was noted that the School Committee can vote to approve the transition plan

    Ms. Schaeffner stated that we could also vote to affirm that we are going to the 2019 Town Meeting with this
    building proposal.

    It was suggested that the School Committee writes a letter to the Building Committee addressing this.
    The letter to the Building Committee should include these facts:
                   ● The transition plan is approved.
                   ● The warrant article is passed and will not be removed.
                   ● It will be necessary for Building Committee members to step forward and help educate the
                       public on the building.

    Ms. Schaeffner made a motion that she will draft this letter to go to the Bell/Coffin/Gerry School Building
    Committee from the School Committee regarding our support of the school project to be voted at our March 7,
    2019 School Committee meeting. The motion was seconded by Ms. Gold. The committee VOTED unanimously,
    4-0, in favor. The motion passes.

    It was noted that the vote to approve the new school building by the School Committee needs to be added to the
    agenda for the March 7, 2019 School Committee meeting.

  4. Adjournment
     A motion to adjourn was made and the meeting ended at 10:34AM.
                                                                   Respectfully submitted,
                                                                  Sarah Gold
                                                                   Marblehead School Committee



                                                         2
