                                             Marblehead School Committee
                                                     May 23, 2019
                                                       7:00 PM
                                             Marblehead High School Library

                                                            AGENDA

I.   Initial Business and Public Involvement
     1. Call to Order
     2. Committee Organization
           1. Election of Officers
                  a.       Chairman
                  b.       Vice-Chairman
                  c.       Secretary

            2. Approvals
                  a. School Committee Code of Ethics (in packet)                                                   (vote)
                  b. School Committee Operating Protocols (in packet)                                              (vote)
                  c. New Member Checklist (in packet)

     3.   Commendations
     4.   Public Comment
     5.   Student Representative-Dan Howell


II. Consent Agenda& Action Items
    1. Approval of Interim Superintendent’s Contract                                                               (vote)

     2. Approval of Bid Contracts (in packet)                                                                      (vote)

     3. Bell School Surplus Books (in packet)                                                                      (vote)

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills (in packet)                                                                               (vote)

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. BCG Building Update
   2. Discussion of School Committee Retreat Agenda
   3. Discussion/assignment of SC Liaison and Sub Committee positions (in packet)

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
    B. Correspondence
    C. Adjournment

*SC members using computers during school committee meetings will neither send nor receive text messages or emails during meetings,
except for fact finding or emergency situations that are preapproved by the Board.




                              Marblehead School Committee Vision Statement

A model school district, exemplary in its student engagement and academic excellence,
where all students meet their highest potential with the support of outstanding
instructional leadership and in partnership with the community.
                                                                                                File: BEDH

                     PUBLIC COMMENT AT SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETINGS


All regular and special meetings of the School Committee shall be open to the public. Executive sessions
will be held only as prescribed by the Statutes of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

The School Committee desires citizens of the District to attend its meetings so that they may become
better acquainted with the operations and the programs of our local public schools. In addition, the
Committee would like the opportunity to hear the wishes and ideas of the public.

In order that all citizens who wish to be heard before the Committee have a chance and to ensure the
ability of the Committee to conduct the District's business in an orderly manner, the following rules and
procedures are adopted:

1. At the start of each regularly scheduled School Committee meeting, individuals or group
   representatives will be invited to address the Committee. The Chair shall determine the length of the
   public participation segment.

2. Speakers will be allowed three (3) minutes to present their material. The presiding Chair (or a
   majority vote of the committee) may permit extension of this time limit.

3. Individuals may address topics, within the scope of responsibility of the School Committee.

4. Improper conduct and remarks will not be allowed. Defamatory or abusive remarks are always out of
   order. If a speaker persists in improper conduct or remarks, the Chair may terminate that individual's
   privilege of address.

5. All remarks will be addressed through the Chair of the meeting.

6. Speakers may offer such objective criticisms of the school operations and programs as concern them,
   but in public session the Committee will not hear personal complaints of school personnel nor against
   any member of the school community. Under most circumstances, administrative channels are the
   proper means for disposition of legitimate complaints involving staff members.

7. Written comments longer than three (3) minutes may be presented to the Committee before or after
   the meeting for the Committee members' review and consideration at an appropriate time.

8. Public Comment is not a discussion, debate, or dialogue between citizens and the Committee. It is a
   citizen's opportunity to express his/her opinion on issues of School Committee business. The
   Committee and/or administrator's may not be prepared to directly respond to citizen questions posed
   in this forum but the Chair may request that citizens put the question in writing to the appropriate
   person or body so that the matter is given the proper consideration.


SOURCE: Marblehead Approved 10/18/18




                        Marblehead School Committee Vision Statement

A model school district, exemplary in its student engagement and academic excellence,
where all students meet their highest potential with the support of outstanding
instructional leadership and in partnership with the community.
