                                                Marblehead School Committee
                                                         RETREAT
                                                 Wednesday August 1, 2018
                                                           8:30am
                                                Veterans Middle School Library
                                                          AGENDA

8:30 AM Public Meeting

I.   Initial Business and Public Involvement
      1. Call to Order
      2. Motion and vote to meet in executive session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A section 21 (a),
         purpose (2) to conduct a strategy session in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel, specifically, the
         superintendent with the purpose of returning to open session.

Executive Session
To conduct a strategy session in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel, specifically, the superintendent, pursuant to
Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A section 21 (a), purpose (2) with the purpose of returning to open session.

Return to Open Session

II. Consent Agenda and Action Items

     1.   SC Minutes 6/20/18 and 6/29/18                                                   (vote)
     2.   Approval of Sup contract amendment-current coursework                            (vote)
     3.   Custodial Items to be declared as surplus                                        (vote)
     4.   Bill Schedules                                                                   (vote)
     5.   Boosters – Field Advertising (Policy KHB)                                        (vote)
     6.   MASC Conference

III. Retreat Agenda

Workshop with Elizabeth Valerio - Valerio Dominello & Hillman, LLC
     •    Open Meeting Law discussion
     •    Sub-Committees/Agenda setting
     •    Bell, Coffin, Gerry Building Committee Advocacy/Town Meeting
     •    JANUS Decision

Workshop with Mike Gilbert – Massachusetts Association of School Committees
   • Roles and Responsibilities
   • Operating Protocols
   • Mid-year check in

Other School Committee Retreat Agenda Items for discussion
     •    Liaison positions
     •    Reports Calendar
     •    Current Class Size Enrollment
     •    Strategic Plan - (annual goals debriefing and next steps)

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
    B. Correspondence
    C. Adjournment
                                                                                                                          File: BEDH

                     PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AT SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETINGS
         All regular and special meetings of the School Committee shall be open to the public. Executive sessions will be held only as
prescribed by the Statutes of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

         The School Committee desires citizens of the District to attend its meetings so that they may become better acquainted with
the operations and the programs of our local public schools. In addition, the Committee would like the opportunity to hear the wishes
and ideas of the public.

        In order that all citizens who wish to be heard before the Committee have a chance and to ensure the ability of the Committee
to conduct the District's business in an orderly manner, the following rules and procedures are adopted:

    1.   At the start of each regularly scheduled School Committee meeting, individuals or group representatives will be invited to
         address the Committee. The Chairperson shall determine the length of the public participation segment.

    2.   Speakers will be allowed three (3) minutes to present their material. The presiding Chairperson (or a majority vote of the
         committee) may permit extension of this time limit.

    3.   Individuals may address topics, within the scope of responsibility of the School Committee.

    4.   Improper conduct and remarks will not be allowed. Defamatory or abusive remarks are always out of order. If a speaker
         persists in improper conduct or remarks, the Chairperson may terminate that individual’s privilege of address.

    5.   All remarks will be addressed through the Chairperson of the meeting.

    6.   Speakers may offer such objective criticisms of the school operations and programs as concern them, but in public session the
         Committee will not hear personal complaints of school personnel nor against any member of the school community. Under
         most circumstances, administrative channels are the proper means for disposition of legitimate complaints involving staff
         members.

    7.   Written comments longer than three (3) minutes may be presented to the Committee before or after the meeting for the
         Committee members’ review and consideration at an appropriate time.

    8.   Public Comment is not a discussion, debate, or dialogue between citizens and the Committee. It is a citizen’s opportunity to
         express his/her opinion on issues of School Committee business. The Committee and/or administrator’s may not be prepared
         to directly respond to citizen questions posed in this forum but the Chair may request that citizens put the question in writing
         to the appropriate person or body so that the matter is given the proper consideration.




         *SC members using computers during school committee meetings will neither send nor
         receive text messages or emails during meetings, except for fact finding or emergency
         situations that are preapproved by the Board.
