                                  Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                             Thursday, September 06, 2018
                                                Marblehead High School

Members Present:                           Meredith Tedford, David Harris, Jennifer Schaeffner
                                           Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor

Also:                                      Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                           Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                           Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations
                                           Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                           Robert Bellucci, Dir. Of Student Services & Program Acct.
                                           Rachel Bowen, Director of Human Resources

Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 7:22pm. She thanked Jon Caswell of MHTV and the two students
        helping him this evening.

     B. Commendations
        Superintendent Perry noted that they opened the doors to over 3100 students. Though last week was hot, the staff
        did their best to make sure the students stayed well hydrated. She thanked the staff and faculty for their work in
        preparing for the opening of school. She also thanked the custodians and maintenance crew who worked hard all
        summer in preparing the schools for the first day. She noted that there are exciting initiatives this year which she
        will report on later in the year.

         Ms. Tedford thanked the Boosters for working diligently at fundraising to help defray the cost of the Health Center
         at the High School. The Friends promised to donate $50,000 if the Boosters could match that amount and they are
         well on their way to meeting that cap.

         Mr. Harris thanked all those that prepared the schools. He also thanked the Building Committee who have worked
         all summer on the Bell, Coffin, Gerry project. He also thanked the Rec and Park for taking care of the landscaping
         of our schools and for sprucing up the grounds for the start of school. He invited all to the first football game
         tomorrow night at 7:00pm.

     C. Public Comment
        Clifford Smith, 55 Farrel Ct. Asked the Superintendent to make the whole incident quietly go away and
        Matthews paid what he is owed.

         Tom Bull, 6 Arlyn Road. Parent of former Bell student. Believes after reading the facts of the findings, the right
         thing should be done by Mr. Matthews.

         Brenda Kelley Kim, 86 Clifton Ave. Has two children in Bell School. Feels district acted prematurely in the Bell
         Organic garden issue.

         Jack Buba, 5 Palmer Road. Urged the Committee to make this situation right since the district overreacted on the
         Organic Garden issue.

         Benjamin Crowninshield, 41 Rowland Street. Informed the Committee that he is gathering signatures for a
         special Town meeting to preserve the Gerry School Building as a school.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                           9/6/2018

    D. Student Representative
       Superintendent Perry noted that this year’s School Committee Student Rep will be 10th grader Dan Howells who
       will join us for the September 20th meeting. She will be meeting with him in the next week to explain the role of
       the student rep.

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
    1. Gerry Warrant Article
       Ms. Tedford noted that last year the School Committee voted to close the Gerry School based on the results of a
       study. She explained that she is looking at the Committee to now vote to transfer the school back to the Town.
       She explained that the Board of Selectmen will then form a committee to review the best options for the building.

         Ms. Schaeffner reminded the community that the decision of what is to be done with the building will be done at
         Town meeting. He also noted there are several other small parcels of land owned by the School district that have
         little value to the schools and which the School Committee may vote to transfer to the Town at a later date.

         Ms. Schaeffner made motion to transfer the care, custody, management and control of the Gerry School Building
         and grounds to the Board of Selectmen, being it is no longer needed for school purposes. The motion was
         seconded by Mr. Harris. The Committee VOTED unanimously in favor, 5-0.

    2.   Superintendent course approval
         Ms. Tedford explained that the Superintendent is requesting approval to enroll in course EDU817 under section
         5.1B- extenuation of her contract.
         Course description: EDU817 (3 credits)
         Collaborating with their respective dissertation committee, as well as continuing with peer interaction, students
         engage in the planning, organization, research, writing and revising of the dissertation. Regularly scheduled
         virtual meetings with the chair and full committee will ensure that timely and satisfactory progress is made in
         order to present the finished product at the end of their academic year.

         Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve enrollment for the Superintendent in course EDU817 under section 5.1B
         extenuation of her contract. Ms. Gold seconded the motion and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in
         favor.

    3.   Coffin and Bell nurse hires
         Ms. Tedford reminded the Committee that after Ed Reform, according to MGL Chapter 71, Section 53, the School
         Committee is responsible to appoint school nurses and physicians. Typically one Committee member sits at the
         final interview of recommended candidates. That candidate is then presented to the entire Committee for approval.
         Ms. Tedford explained that currently, the District has two nurse vacancies and Ms. Bowen will be giving a brief
         review of two candidates resumes who are being presented to the Committee this evening for approval.

         The two candidates presented for approval are Elizabeth Rostron, nurse for the Coffin School and Kathryn Keane,
         nurse for the lower Bell School.

         Ms. Schaeffner made motion that to approve the appointment of Ms. Elizabeth Rostron and Ms. Kathryn Keane as
         school nurses for the District. The motion was seconded by Ms. Taylor and the Committee VOTED unanimously,
         5-0, in favor.

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        1. Opening Day Report
           Enrollment
           Superintendent Perry noted that currently there are over 3000 students in the Marblehead Public Schools. She
           noted that there is stability in the District due partly to the fact that there is stability in the administration
           department as well as with principals and assistant principals. She also noted that there are many initiatives in
           the District. This year our initiative will be to “Accent the Positive.”



                                                               2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                      9/6/2018

          Personnel
          Ms. Bowen noted that we had a busy spring and summer. We hired 32 teachers and 14 support staff as well as a
          new Assistant Principal, Karen Grenier-Mernin at the Village School. She further stated that we currently have
          five vacancies: a High School Chairperson, a clerical position at the Village School and three paraprofessional
          positions at the High School. Ms. Bowen explained that for quality and consistency, we have taken over the
          substitute program this year. We have at least 39 substitutes that have been on boarded. We’re hoping for a
          successful year.

          Facilities
          Mr. Lord began by thanking his custodians and maintenance staff for their work over the summer. He
          welcomed Todd Bloodgood as the new Facilities Director. Mr. Lord gave a brief highlight of projects over the
          summer:

          •   largest project was the High School hot water tanks
          •   we’re expecting the arrival of a new bus
          •   three of our staff members were sent to Bus Training which created a staffing issue over the summer but
              will provide flexibility in bus coverage during the school year. This was a commitment as they had to drive
              to Westport each day for an 8 week training. Kudos to each of them
          •   multiple inspections and tests were performed over the summer
          •   gym floors were sanded and poly put down
          •   plumbing and other repairs were done
          •   replaced over 100 computers and performed tech inventory
          •   will launch the 1:1 program at the HS and distributed over 100 Chromeboks to those in need

          Mr. Lord welcomed the new Instructional Technology person, Matthew Tangney who was our former Social
          Studies teacher.

          Curriculum
          Assistant Superintendent Dr. Smith noted curriculum highlights over the summer:
          • in Health Education-two teachers at Veterans presented a workshop at the Health Education Conference in
              Salem
          • 6th grade and Middle school grade teachers worked on Science curriculum and kits
          • the High School received NEASC progress report approval. They are a fully accredited institution and were
              commended by NEASC for use of Google docs; Google applications; Professional Development to develop
              curriculum; increased stability in the district; quality of communication and a stable and dependable school
              budget. Dr. Smith thanked Principal Dan Bauer, Assistant Principals Michelle Carlson and Lynsey Page,
              staff and other administrators for their work with the High School accreditation
          • Dr. Smith noted that in Marblehead this fall, we will offer 18 AP classes and have been named to the 7th
              Annual AP District Honor Roll
          • we began a comprehensive approach to a school safety and security initiative. We have partnered with the
              policy and fire for training in the ALICE School Safety Protocol-which stands for Alert, Lockdown, Inform,
              Counter and Evacuate
          • we have worked on curriculum for Bullying Prevention; PBIS and Counseling Services and Service
              learning will continue as a goal for current school year.


IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills
        #16920           $ 3,942.37
        #16940           $216,725.00
        #16955           $ 1,260.00
        #16969           $ 8,084.19
        #16974           $158,022.65
        #16981               $982.16
                         $389,016.37



                                                           3
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                         9/6/2018


         Ms. Schaeffner made motion that to approve the schedule of bills totaling $389,016.37. Ms. Gold seconded the
         motion and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. 2018-2019 Liaisons/ Sub-committees
      Ms. Tedford noted that upon further discussion after the retreat, the Safety Committee will be a Superintendent’s
      Advisory Committee due the nature of the safety topics being discussed.

    2. BCG Building Update
       PSR vote
       Mr. Harris noted that the Bell Coffin Gerry Building Committee had a joint meeting this evening prior to the School
       Committee meeting. The Building Committee agreed on the PSR that will be presented for School Committee
       approval for submittal to the MSBA. Mr. Harris had a Power Point presentation on the agreed upon design for the
       building and noted that there will be three to four months to enhance the design. The next step is a motion by the
       School Committee to approve the recommendation of the Building Committee to submit the PSR to the MSBA.

        Mr. Harris made motion that the School Committee approve the recommendation of the Building Committee to
        allow RDA/LF to submit the PSR to the MSBA for September 12, 2018. The motion was seconded by Ms.
        Schaeffner and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

        OCPF/Ethics discussion
        Ms. Tedford noted that there was discussion at the SC retreat to better understand the Committee’s role in respect to
        advocating for the new building. She stated that as we go forward with the proposed school building there will be
        actions that we will take as School Committee members, as Building Committee members and as Community
        members to bring this project forward to Town meeting. She noted that the Office of Campaign and the State Ethics
        Commission have specific guidelines that Committee members must follow of what can and can’t be done. There
        are many “grey” areas and guidelines for elected or appointed officials and both these groups are very helpful.
        Both groups provide seminars that are open to the public but if we can get a group of 25-30 people, they will send a
        trainer to us. Ms. Tedford remarked that as an Elected official a Committee member can say that he/she is in favor
        of a new school. She noted that there will be more discussion of this before the winter break.

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business

     B. Correspondence

     C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn was made and seconded and the meeting adjourned at 9:00pm.

                                                                            Respectfully submitted,
                                                                            Sarah Gold
                                                                            Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
Gerry Warrant Article
Superintendent course approval
Coffin and Bell Nurse hires
Schedule of Bills
2018-2019 Liaison/Sub committee
PSR



Approved 9/20/18




                                                             4
