April 8th to order. Announce this meeting is being recorded. Why don't we start the night off with public comment? If you'd like to speak, you can walk up to the microphone here. And just state your name and address. Eileen Good. 44 Brandywine Drive. I just thank you for the chance to speak with SELECTBOARD. I just put in this formal word to the SELECTBOARD to consider including the position of whether you title it sustainability coordinator or assistant planner and coordinator in the tier one of the override that you put in the call out. I feel the role is here with the pictures of it. One thing that provides direct financial value because it identifies and implements energy efficiency measures that reduce operating costs in our municipal buildings, and it saves the town money. Secondly, as we all know it, it's related to people going to secure any funding from outside the tax base. It brings in grant dollars that do not rely on our tax base. And specifically, the role ensures effective coordination with RP partners, helping manage appropriately any awarded funds, and successfully reporting and completing projects so that we can position the town to

get more. Especially as we've teed up to become a green community. It'll be so important to get access to $150,000 a year, which would be a million over five years. We need to be able to complete these. And I also would ask that the town include the town planner. I mean, I haven't seen all the flyers yet. I think you'll help me, but both the town planner and the community development planning department director in this tier one. So thank you very much. Thank you, Eileen. Hi, Elaine Lansey, Ida Road. Can you hear me? Yep. Okay. So, at the State of the Town, the town administrator asked residents a simple question: What does the Marblehead we want look like? For many residents, the answer is clear. A Marblehead that is forward-thinking, strategic and vibrant. A town that provides the services that make this community such a special place to live. One way we can accomplish this, excuse me, is by keeping the Community Planning and Development Department in the tier one of the override. Recent projects supported by this department, which benefit all Marbleheaders, include the Marblehead Shipyard Resiliency projects, the State Street landing, Cliff Street

underground storage tank closeout, the Village Street bridge replacement, the Elm Street playground, Devereux Beach ADA improvements, the State Street landing restroom cleaning, the Five Corners redesign, and the Rail Trail improvements. We respectfully urge the SELECTBOARD to preserve the Community Planning and Development Department in the first year. Positions that bring in this type of outside funding for long-term planning and help the town avoid costly decisions later are not expensive. They are smart investments in Marblehead's future. Thank you. Thank you, Elaine. Tom McMahon, 16 Shorewood Road. Apologize for my voice. I don't think we're asking today. You probably think I'm here to talk about the future of trash collection. Not, here to talk about social hosting laws. At the next Board of Health meeting on Tuesday, April 14th at 7:30 PM, we will be hosting District Attorney Paul Tucker to speak on the matter, and I'd like anyone that wants to come to come. Encourage you to come. This issue is important to me and many others in town, so I'm looking forward to it. How do I know that it is important to others? I've never gotten more support for anything in my life than after

I challenged why our social hosting laws weren't being enforced. The timing of my statements is interesting. Prior to making my statements, the COM survey was put out to Marbleheaders, completed, and we were waiting for the results. I made my statements, and we then got back the results of the survey, and lo and behold, one of the biggest concerns for people in town was underage drinking. You might say I had my finger on the pulse for that one. Now, after I made my statements, there was an attempt to twist my words by saying that I was blaming police officers and I wanted the youth to be punished. Never once did I say either of those things. What I made crystal clear is that I want parents who are engaging in the practice of hosting underage drinking parties to be held responsible for breaking Marblehead laws. I also said I want Marblehead police officers to feel they are supported in enforcing social hosting laws for these entitled parents who often push back with the, "Do you know who I am?" Or, "I'll sue you," et cetera, responses to them. That support can only come from leadership in

town, making it clear that breaking these laws will not be tolerated. Dan, you made statements about me and my efforts on this issue that were false. You also had a knee-jerk reaction of challenging whether social hosting laws were even valid, a challenge that defies logic since these are common-sense laws and the penalties are minor civil fines. Eventually, you reached out to me to see what I wanted for a solution, and I told you I wanted you to make a statement saying you support Marblehead police officers enforcing these laws. You asked me for time as you wanted to meet with Paul Tucker for your challenge to these laws. I allowed you that time without making any further statements. When you met with Paul Tucker, you reiterated a statement you made to me and others regarding these lawsThat statement was, "We don't want to change the culture of Marblehead." This statement was even included and attributed to you in the meeting minutes from Paul Tucker. There's no part of Marblehead culture that has anything to do with parents hosting underage drinking parties, which put our youth in danger and have resulted in tragedy. Chief King met with

Dr. Tomasaro, and they agreed that enforcing existing social hosting laws was valid. Again, this is common sense. In a text message exchange, I pointed out to you and said that because of this, there should be no issue with you making a statement that would support Marblehead police officers enforcing these laws. You asked for time before making that statement to discuss with Chief King. As it turns out, you were really just asking for time to hope the issue faded away. That was never going to happen. I think you grossly underestimate how much I care about my kids and ending this dangerous precedent of parent-led underage drinking parties in town. You declined the invite to next week's event with Paul Tucker saying you didn't think you needed to be there. However, I think you need to be there more than anyone. This is a major issue that parents are truly concerned about in this town, and you should be, too. With all that said, Dan, it's never too late to do the right thing. So I'll ask you now two questions. Do you support Marblehead police officers enforcing local or even state social hosting laws? And will

you be attending next Tuesday's meeting with guest speaker Paul Tucker to discuss the issues? Are we all set? Yep. Thank you. As you know, unfortunately, I can't answer those in public comment because it is not on our agenda, and public open meeting law, which I also follow, as I follow, I believe the police follow all the laws. I can't answer that. It's not on our agenda. I'm not allowed to respond to that. Trust me, there's a lot I would like to say right now, but I'm not going to. Maybe I can make some of the announcements. I appreciate your time, but my hands are tied like this just on other public comment, whether people come right at me like you have very strongly or not. So I appreciate that. I would like to make a point of information that some of those statements you made are not true, but I'm not going to get there right now either. Okay. I appreciate your time, appreciate having the courage to stand up, Tom, for what you believe is right, and appreciate you speaking up and standing up strong on that. So thank you. Anybody else out there?

Yeah. Amy Hurd, 36 Bouvier Road. I need your help. In 2022, the residents of Marblehead voted for and passed Article 11, which allotted over $12 million to fund road and sidewalk repair in town for the next five years. Year four. The language in that was very clear, repair roads and sidewalks, not create new ones. However, on Bouvier Road, that's what's happening. Two Mondays ago, March 30th, trucks arrived, work began on a plan that includes new sidewalks, which involve paving over the public way that runs through several residents' front yards. No notice was given of this work until after it had already started. The notices we received that afternoon called it road and sidewalk improvements. We're thrilled. Great. They're paving the road. That sounds good. And they announced a neighborhood Zoom that was meeting that Thursday. And thankfully, I tuned in for it, or else I would not have known that the plan was to pave over the public way in the middle of my yard as well as my neighbors. So problem number one I'm hoping this board will address is with the DPW and their disregard for our town bylaw. We have an actual

bylaw that says before beginning work, notice must be given. Okay. Our town engineer happened to be on my street the next day, which was great, and explained to us that these new sidewalks were happening for two reasons. Number one, because she thought we had voted for it in 2022, which again, the town approved money for repairs, but not additional sidewalks. And number two, because alteration or digging up of any road triggers the need for ADA-compliant sidewalks. We looked it up. The Department of Justice, Department of Transportation Joint Technical Assistance on Title Two requires the town to provide curb ramps, not add to our current network of sidewalks. The sidewalks they are proposing, this is my third problem, terminate in the middle of Bouvier Road. The goal is to make it easier for pedestrians from Atlantic Avenue to reach the cut-through to Wallace Road. This is a top priority for our town right now. There will be no sidewalk for pedestrians coming from the other direction from Wyman Road or from the cut-through on Wallace Road. It should also be noted that as part of this town-wide project, a safety study was done on sidewalks in

town. Bouvier Road was not a priority on this list. So I want to say, I understand the goal of our town engineer. Her job is not to manage the fiscal responsibility of our already underfunded town budget. It would be wonderful to have well-maintained sidewalks up and down every street in Marblehead, but we clearly are all here for bigger problems, and now is not the time. And it's not what we voted for. So I've reached out to DPW multiple times. I've reached out to the engineering. I reached out to all of you guys. My neighbors have reached out, and we've heard nothing. So I just feel people needed to know this is how Neighbors and people in this community are being treated, and I know it doesn't sound like a big deal, but for some of us it is. Thank you. Appreciate it. Albert Jordan. Close about that. I know you're aware that Paul Becker is coming to the Board of Health meeting. I just hope that anyone that has children in Marblehead, we don't waste his time. He's a very dedicated public employee. I've dealt with him in the past several times. So I'm just

hoping, I don't want people there that don't have goodwill, but I think anyone that has children or any public people that are concerned about the youth in this town should set aside some time to come up there. We should have a good showing, and we can find out programs that the district attorney's office is offering that we're missing out on. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Jordan. Anybody else who'd like to make comment? Anybody online, Kyle? Okay. Let's move on. So we'll move on to our town administrator update. So I'll debrief some ongoing activities with Community Development Planning Department. A number of capital projects that are ongoing, mostly funded through grant programs that we have received. One, Five Corners Improvement Project. So the project is commenced. So probably you've seen some people doing surveying work and such, to improve that intersection, both from a traffic flow as well as a opportunity to create more conducive downtown economic activity, for the local businesses. What's key here is that there is a public input web page that's been launched. It's on the Community Development Planning website. The web page will remain active through April 30th, and so it's

an opportunity for residents to be able to provide input, to get some information on the project, and provide input for it. Sort of in line, Rail Trail project, in partnership with Tool Design. The Community Development Planning Department will host a virtual public meeting on April 13th via Zoom, to present the current design and receive community feedback. So again, it's on the Community Development website. You can find the link to that meeting. Coffin School Reuse Study, again, there's a public survey, remains available on the website. That closes on April 13th for getting input on the reuse of the Coffin School. And finally, the EcoOne Stop grant. So we don't give up on applying for grants. Well, we don't give up on the grants that we're eligible for, and I've made it a position, we don't give up on the grants that we're not eligible for for 3A. We pursue them all. In this case, State Street Landing and Tucker's Wharf Resiliency Project. So, through CZM, Coastal Zone Management, for $519,193. And that's to get a 60% design. And then finally, Marblehead High School Tree Planting Project, which is cooling corridor, so that's a grant of $51,265.

That's a grant to be able to do tree plantings in an area which has a lot of asphalt in the area, for cooling. So those are the more grants that we're pursuing. Great. And that is my update. Thank you. All right. Yeah, go ahead. Just wanted to acknowledge the email from the BDRO. I just noticed several of them today, and I'm sure that there's an official response coming. Been very focused on tonight's presentation, so, I'm sure that you're planning on following up with an official response on that. Yes, we've been getting the input today. Okay. Thank you. Appreciate that. Cultural Council appointment, if I could have Katherine Zukowski come up to here please. Good evening. Come on up here. Yeah, you're super important. The hot seat there. Good evening. Hi. Thank you for coming. We received your letter. Sounds great. Do you just want to tell us a little bit about yourself and why you want to be appointed? Sure. I actually was born in Marblehead, in Mary Alley, one of the last ones born. And I grew up right across the street from Abbott Hall. I was out of town for a while, and

I've come back home, and it just feels great. My entire life, I have been involved in performing and visual arts, and I don't work. Particularly in that, I do support some work in arts and humanities. But I'm also involved with some volunteer work at, for instance, Me and the Music. And I would really like to be a little bit more involved in the community itself, embed myself back into the community and in a way that I never have before, and in something that's close to my heart, and this just seems like a perfect match. Great. Appreciate that. Any questions, comments? No. Thank you for- Okay ... your interest in stepping forward. Thank you. Great group. Yeah, I think it's amazing. That's great. Welcome back to Marblehead.All right. There's no reason to put this off. I have a motion to appoint Katherine Southwick to the Cultural Council with a term to expire in June 2029. So moved. Second. All in favor? Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. You're good now. Thank you. All right. Licensing. Is Mr. Lewis here? I saw you there. Greg. Have a seat. We'll just open this up. This

is a continuation of the public hearing opened on November 13th, 2024, on the revocation of the wine malt beverage license number 00042-RS-0656, Shindonisi, 1 Atlantic Ave. Welcome back. Thank you. I see a 305. Looks like you're getting close. We have a soft opening date for April 25th. Uh-huh. We've had a couple small private parties, as well as I've been doing intimate cheese classes in the meantime. But we're gearing forward. The toughest part has been trying to find help. Right. I've been able to hire one person, but even getting resumes and stuff has been challenging, so if you guys know anybody please send them my direction. Great. Do you have any inspections left? We have to get through one more inspection that Kyle told me about. 304. 304 inspection. Which is? What's the 304 inspection? So it's a life safety... It's a result of the club fire in Rhode Island. So, what needs to happen is he needs to set up his establishment the way it's going to be configured- Yeah ... so we establish what the occupancy count is, as well as checking that all the life safety components that are required are in place.

That's all that needs to be done, and then he's- Yeah. So I was told that I needed an updated floor plan, so I had my architect, he sent it over to me this afternoon. So I've sent it over to my contractor to hopefully get that scheduled and- Okay ... taken care of. Great. I'm assuming we can't have the soft opening till then, until that 304 is signed off on. Yeah. All right. So let's make sure that that happens before you have that. You think you'll get all the furniture and- The furniture's all in there. I'm just waiting on some décor and a couple more flatware, plateware type things to come in, and then- Nothing that should prevent the inspection. No. I mean, the inspection should be ready to go now. If you're set up- We're set ... with all the furniture and such, then let Steven know. He was going to try to swing by this afternoon to do a chat. I won't be needed, but yeah. Yeah. I- Have it set up as you are going to set up your establishment, and that's part of the... So they can do the occupancy count and

make sure that all the things- We have a lounge we haven't built yet. It's more just a waiting area in the back. Oh. It's not part of our floor plan, but not part of... We wouldn't serve people there. Right. I don't know- It's more like décor ... to what detail they need, but they need to be able to evaluate that based on the way you're set up- Yes ... with a crowd in there, if the building caught on fire- Mm ... can people safely get out? Okay. So that's why they need to see how you're arranged and set up as part of a safety check. Perfect. I think we're ready to go for that. Mm-hmm. Any comments on how we move forward at this point? How does the board feel about continuing, closing the hearing, and...? I think we're making progress. Okay. We're getting across the finish line. So- Well, it sounds like you've got all your sign-offs except for this final 304. Yeah. How do people feel? I know that we love seeing Mr. Lewis here- ... every couple of weeks. But any input? I mean- Ms. Figg ... do we just want to

wait for the sign-off? Why don't we wait one more time? And- Yeah ... and assuming we get the sign-off, we just put it on and close it, and I don't think they need to excuse your, assuming it's all done, they excuse your presence. Yeah. So we'll continue the hearing. You don't have to come as long as we have the sign-off, and then we'll open and close the hearing at the next meeting. Yeah. As long as you have that. If you don't have that, then you should be here. Okay. Yeah. So if I could have, we'll just- Does the date to timing, does that work? Well, he still has his liquor license. Right. Right? For this, it's just the revocation hearing. Okay. So it's just a question of closing that hearing. Okay. So he could still open on the 25th. Right. It's our next meeting. So let's do the 22nd. Yeah. So if I could have a motion to continue the hearing until April 22nd. Second. All in favor? All right. Thanks, sir. Thank you. Good luck hiring people. Well done. All right. Let's move on to the budget override discussion. Matt Fernald, are you shy

to me? Do a presenting. I'm going to open my chair. So, I'm gonna call this a continuation of the presentation- Okay ... at last meeting, which gave sort of an overview of our strategies as to how we're going to try to structure the override, how we're going to make determinations, as to what goes into what component of the override, and generate the numbers.So that's the work that's been done. I have to say, a lot of hands involved in this. So we've been working with the folks on the school side, the finance committee, as well as members of this board, in order to get all the inputs, to get it to where we are. So, with that, as a bit of a refresher, same slide I had before. Why we're even here. The challenge has been building the fiscal 27 budget, significant budget gap. Rising costs. Costs have been rising much faster than our revenues are allowed to grow, and that has created the delta. We are required to have a balanced budget presented to town meeting, and what's been presented previously and what has gone to the FinCom, and through this board, has been presented

a balanced budget with all of the cuts and sacrifices that have been well demonstrated in that due course. And as we've identified, service reductions have been necessary, significant cuts in order to make that balanced budget. As well as we have additional unmet needs from prior years of budget constraint. And I'll say, no different than nearly every other municipality in Massachusetts. So, looking at an override, what is it that the voters need to decide? And as we've talked about previously, what the approach that we're putting together is that there would be two questions on the ballot. One question, would deal with the level of service funding. In other words, how much are voters willing to increase the tax levy in order to either restore, stabilize, or continue to invest into the municipal operations of this town? And so I'll go into a little more detail later. The override question will have three questions on it, and voters will be able to vote yes or no on one or all of the questions as they see fit. The second question that we're proposing to put on the override has to deal with the curbside trash and recycling.

So as based on the outcome of the balanced budget, in order to maintain a balanced budget and to continue the services, particularly in the trash and recycling, we've had the Board of Health take the actions necessary to develop fees, to cover the majority of the costs of the new contracts on the curbside trash and recycling. However, as an option to the taxpayers who may or may not prefer the fee option, to put a question on the override, asking for a tax levy increase that would replace the fee shuffle. So again, the fee will be implemented as part of a balanced budget process, but then there'll be an override question, and if that passes, it'll raise the taxes by the $2.1, $2.2 million necessary to replace the fee shuffle. So we're giving voters that option. In regard to the operating budget override, we're doing a tiered override. And there are three tiers, tier one, tier two, tier three. I will confess, the questions, there'll be question A, B, and C, and depending on how we order the tiers, it may be the highest tier is A, the lowest tier is C. So I'll generally talk as

far as tier one being the lowest, tier two, tier three being the highest. So there'll be three levels structured in the override question. And the concept is a higher tier builds on the previous tier. So whatever is in the first tier, the next higher tier will include everything in the first tier, plus some additional items. And then the third tier, everything in one and two, plus additional items. And the way that the law works is the highest value tier that passes with a majority yes vote is the levy increase. So with three tiers, if the middle tier is the one that receives a majority yes in that, and the third tier is a majority no, the second tier is the number that's used. So that's the basic construct. What I have here, and I stamped that example once again, because obviously we work with our legal counsel to make sure the language is perfect as the way it be. But this gives you an idea of what the ballot question would look like, and based on our numbers that we'll get into a little bit later, sort of our operating numbers. Question 1A will ask,

"Shall the Town of Marblehead be allowed to assess an additional $15 million in real estate and property taxes for purposes of operating the municipal government and public schools for the fiscal year beginning July 1st, 2026?" And I'll emphasize on these numbersThe concept that we're approaching with is this would cover for three fiscal years. So whatever the number is that gets voted, it's not that that should be raised and spent year one. They'll be allocated over a number of years. I will get into more details on that later. Question 1B, shall the town of Marblehead assess an additional 12 million for 1C, 9 million? So in this case, the voters would have the choice to vote yes or no on any of these. You can vote yes on all three. You can vote no on all three, and you can mix and match to your heart's desire as to which level you say yes, and which levels you say no. So that's the way that it works. So as an example, if you're willing to go to 12 million over three years, you'd likely vote yes on 1C for 9 million, yes, for 1B and 12

million, you may say 15 is just a bridge too far. I'm going to vote no. You have that option. When the votes are tallied up, the total number of yeses and no's for 1A, the total number of yes and no's for 1B and 1C, whatever questions receive a majority yes, whichever one is the highest number, that is the increase, in the override. Let me do a whole presentation. I'm sure the chair will vote with all the opportunity. Yeah. So as far as the work to get to what our numbers are, you're not at the doctor's office, so it's not going to be in a chart. It's good. And we'll have information in a different format to provide. But this is the worksheet for the town portion of the overrides, where there's been a lot of work with a lot of people in order to identify those line items that were not included in the balanced budget to be included in either tier one, tier two, or tier three of the override. So again, we'll try to-- This detailed information make available in a more readable format. But for purposes of this presentation, to illustrate, one,

the amount of detail and the amount of work that we've put in in order to come to the conclusions that we have on the numbers. Hold on. Sorry. So we don't have details. Let's see, we go into the schools here. We don't have schools, but I do have- Well, we've got the schools. The schools gave us some talking points. But we don't have talking points on what comes back in each- Yeah. Of the tier. So because the school is voting, they don't vote till tomorrow. No, but I'm talking about on the town side. Other than this, we aren't able to see what's in each tier. This one is like a detail. There's a detail. Am I missing something? No, it's not in your packet. We use this chart, but there is another three tabs of details that goes to this. I see. It's just a summary chart. If you wanted details behind the summary chart, we do have, that's just not in packet. So. So just to be very clear, on the schools, they still need to pass this on their own. Right. This is just subject that I'm still passing. Yes. Tomorrow night on

the school, correct? Yeah. So they provided these bullet points as to their intent on their tiers. So in this case, if the tier one numbers pass, there would be nothing for fiscal '27, no additional funds requested for fiscal '27. But for fiscals '28 and '29, they have included, for example, COLA, step salary increases to cover the contractual increases, restore positions funded from the revolving, that they're using in revolving fund, restore special education out of district tuition, for 1.5 million. So those are some of the summary information that they provided for tier one. If tier two passes, it would be everything they're proposing tier one plus, for fiscal years '28, '29 or years two and three, added technology, lease funding, and to remove the fee for full-day kindergarten in fiscals '28, '29. And if tier three were to pass, everything that they've included in one and two, reestablish curriculum development, professional development, create a special education program, dedicated students ages 18 to 22, and add capital funding, for school department, capital funding for youth. The CFO right here did recommend that in that we have our own at a million. We do share it with the

schools, but it's never enough to really take care of their capital needs each year. So I did say to them it would be really helpful that if you come without our current capital in the schools. Thanks. So what I'm going to do now is explain as best I can the approach that's being taken in which we've included a breakdown of the dollars, and I tried to make it as big and readable as possible. So the concept is-- And this is looking at if tier one passes, the lowest dollar value tier.Right? So the total ask in tier one, the $9 million. And again, that $9 million override would cover the expenses for the next three fiscal years without asking for another override. Based on the breakout as to each fiscal year that we would draw from the override authorization, that for the town, we would draw 1.2 million, 1,269,564 in the chart, for fiscal '27. If you look at the graph at the bottom, the total of the graph will represent the nine million that's been authorized. If this tier one were to pass, we'd have $9 million to draw from, but the schedule would be

that in fiscal '27, we would only draw on the 1.2 million, and as the schools have indicated, they have no need in this fiscal year for a draw. Given that, that would leave 7.7 million of the draw unused and therefore untaxed, meaning the taxes would not go up to cover that because we would not have drawn on it. The result of that one first year on a-- And these numbers are based on a $1 million value of a home, and folks can do calculation sheets to find your exact value and the cost of this. It would be $127 increase on a $1 million home for fiscal '27. That would be the cost of the override on a $1 million home. Year two, fiscal '28, there would be an additional little over $5 million draw. There'd be town expenses added, school expenses added, totaling $5,025,781. That would leave 2.7 million untaxed, unutilized. And in the chart below, the orange represents the amount of the override that would be utilized in year two. Given those numbers on a $1 million home, it would be about a $503 tax increase in fiscal '28 on their taxes. And then

in fiscal '29, year three, utilizing the remaining balance of the nine million authorization, there would be an additional $2.7 million draw, and that would result in another $270 increase on a $1 million home. So it would be a $900 increase after three years as a result of passing a tier one override. This is just a simple example. We'll show more detail on an average single-family home. So but to simplify that, for every million dollars in override you do for a million-dollar home is $100. Right. Right? Or 10 cents per thousand on your assessment. So for every million dollar in override for a million-dollar home is $100. Or on your-- Sorry, I'm public speaking here, but 10 cents per thousand- Yeah. Is a simple way. So if you're at a $900,000- Yeah. -home, it would be $90. If you're at a 1.3, it'd be $130. Yeah. For every million dollars, all right? So this one, you did a million-dollar home. You've got basically 1.27 million that you're drawing. That's why you came to $127. It's just so you can- Yep. Yeah. Thanks. I have to admit, I'm missing something very fundamental here. Okay. I thought FY27

would be the biggest number in subsequent years. What am I missing? How does that- Because the schools didn't ask for anything in fiscal 27. It's only the town. So when we were worried about-- And I know some of the math, but we're worried about, and we just have to back it down. In fiscal 27, we were at 7.7, but the schools didn't ask for something, so that got us down to 4.7 or so. Trash- Yeah. -2.7. Mm-hmm. And then what else to get us to 1.6 or 2.5? So tier one doesn't fully restore- Okay. -everything- Okay. -to fill that- Okay. -deficit. Tier one is the very conservative, bringing back the most critical items that we need. Okay. There are other tiers where we- Okay. Add additional- I'll see what the other tiers look like. For example, you know, talking about the assistant planner, that's not in tier one, but it's in tier two. I'll wait till we get to that. I get it. Well, we can ask for questions and public comment after we're done. Wait. Yes, please. Write it down so you don't forget. There we go. We'll take public comment questions at the

end. Yeah. Board. Board questions, I think, after we have- Board questions. Yeah. Okay, so I guess, so in tier one, the override draw-- Well, I think we need to explain what's in it, right? So... Right. And so that eye chart that I put up is the itemized list. Okay, but- So can I-- Is it all right if I- Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So for tier one- Right. We restored the school resource officer back to the schools. So we're restoring the police department's small equipments that we cut. We restored the inspections, other technical subscription, and maintenance that we cut it to 2,500.We restored the Department of Public Works staffing cuts, and that includes one special labor, one temporary general clerk, one HEO, and we restored the hot top for the roads. Mm-hmm. In finance, we restored one senior clerk position, training for all staff, and we restored the computer equipment. Library, we restored the program volunteer coordinator, senior clerk, library tech, another library tech admin, senior library assistant, library coordinator for circulation, library tech service assistant, technical services supervisor, adult librarian, and a library professional. So that's 311,183. The way we came up with that was for

them to get their accreditation. So they said they needed at least 310. We gave them 311,183 so that they could pursue their accreditation in tier one. Community development and planning, we restored the director. Recreation and parks, we restored one groundskeeper. Cemetery, we restored one laborer. Council on Aging, we restored one temporary special clerk, one general laborer/efficient laborer. Public buildings, we restored the two special labor custodians. Other general government, we put back our portion of OPEP funding, stabilization transfer that we do each year, and our workers' comp recut by 97,662. We restored that as well. We restored our reserve fund back to its full funding at 26,000, and we restored 11,000 back to HR for their other professional and technical for their ads and subscriptions. So under that partial restore, how many people are we still laying off out of the... I think it was 19 or 21. The numbers getting a little... How many are we still laying off? So I did not fill the special clerk in the clerk's office. I did not fill back the assistant planner. I did not fill back the grant coordinator, which is becoming a- Conservation agent ... conservation

agent. We did not restore a bunch of the library. We restored that 311,183, so there was still more to the library that was not restored. So about how many positions would that be at the library? So it was their Abbott child librarian, Abbott young adult librarian, Abbott special labor one, Abbott temporary library assistant, Abbott adult page, and I didn't put back her longevity or step bonus, Daniel Montel. That's what we brought back. I think we need to see a slide of what's in each tier. Yeah. I think that would be- As you post it- Yeah ... big packet. I hope we can have a slide that shows what is actually, like what's in it. Okay, so we just know the number, but what does that mean? So- Right. And I'm happy to share that. I do have that. Yeah. No, I know. We know. Like I know it. Yeah. But others don't. Yeah. I just think also in terms, there's been so much work that's been done, I don't think we're doing justice in the presentations, you know? And so I think it would be fair. I think we've got time to do that for

sure. But, typically, when you do projections, and of course, we don't have a lot of practice doing it, kind of on a three-year basis, so this represents an expression of the new thing that we're doing here. But to start with the base year for, let's just say that fiscal year '26, we know what the budget is, right? Mm-hmm. We know the deficits in fiscal year '27, that we're reducing, right? Mm-hmm. And there are cuts associated with that. Yeah. So if we get a balanced budget with those cuts, what we see is that the overall budget is declining 60 basis points roughly. Mm-hmm. And that's getting... And the town restored by just those up-front things. The schools have actually helped us pay for that this year. I think just in the fiscal year '26 and fiscal year '27 balanced budget, there's a real story around how the balanced budget was achieved, right? I think what that also does is it generates the costs that needed to be restored. Yeah. We have- That's right. Now, there's two ways to fund the deficits. Through cuts and through override. And we have a really, for fiscal year '27, there's

a real story around the cuts. And the cuts, certainly in fiscal year '27, exceed the override. Largely because the schools have done a great job cutting and getting to a place where they're even more efficient than they were in fiscal year '26. And we've got a story of cutting roughly 2 million, and we're asking for another 1.3. Now, there's also that other $2 million that is a potential override, right? So that's whether we include that in the overall projection or not, that's another thing. Bottom line is, I think it would really help to have just more of a traditional P&amp;L presentation. And I think we can do that, because you have all the knowledge in your head. Yes. Right? And- It's all in spreadsheets. And in spreadsheets. In fact, I know that. But I think as well, though, it's very hard for people to digest it. But there is a story, like in each year of the projection that makes a lot of sense, right? And that is very well thought through. So I would just try to, I think in the next time we... We're not voting- We're not voting ... any day, right?

But we've got an opportunity to refine it, and I think that would be helpful. But I mean, even just stepping back, there has been a lot of work. We've had- Yeah ... many meetings. We've got some good work done. But even starting with something like the schoolsAnd writing down what it is, and then showing it in numbers. I think it's hard. I've been part of this for the weeks, and it's just hard to see it. And sometimes to the public, it's really hard. Yeah. Right. No, I think that's right. Well, the objective that needed to be achieved, which was monumental and- Yeah ... flew it all the way till late today. Oh, no, I appreciate it Was to nail down what are the numbers that everybody's asking for and putting in. Well, part of the objective is to explain to the public what we're doing- Yes ... as well. So that has to be both. Yeah. So, right. So the big takeaway is what are the big numbers, what's the impact? There's a ton of detail to back it up. It doesn't squeeze into the public themselves. I wish that chart, instead of it being

an exam, that was actually a really good chart suggested by the FinCom vice chair. So that'll be available. That'll be available, and I can also post on the website this detail too, for the public. Yeah. But I think we have to have another meeting and go through that with the public, and answer some questions as well. It's just hard to have numbers without knowing what's behind them. I think what we're-- Exactly. I think that what we're looking for is just a rationale for the draws, right? Because there's a number of... And I think the best way to capture that is through a kind of P&amp;L, that you roll through. Because the construction of it every year follows the same pattern, right? You basically have last year's budget. Mm-hmm. Figure out what your revenues are and what the revenue assumptions are, right? Then you figure out what your available budget is. Can we talk about this after? No, I get it. What I'm saying, to show it year on year, and then you can walk down, each year, and then it rolls up to the next year, and you can walk down that in a way

that I think is holistic. Is that the word I use? That is, where you can see everything. And I think if people can then-- And it's going to be evident what the key drivers are, and that's when people drill down, they're contextualizing the detail that we have, but in a way that people can understand how the budget is rolling forward. So yeah, that'd be my only suggestion as we move to the next step. Absolutely. Okay. Thank you. Tier two. If the tier two level were to pass, these are them. So in year one, the town would draw up $2.8 million, which again, is more than the 1.2. So that's where we load in the other positions that were cut, so on. This is based on an overall $12 million override to cover for three years. So in the first year, it would draw 2.8 million. Again, downside, nothing for the school. That would result in a $1 million home, a $281 increase. And the graph below represents visually what portion of the total authorization has been drawn upon. In fiscal 28, it'd be a total draw of 5.9. And again, that's made up of school

items and town items, which we have spreadsheets that articulate that out. That would result in an additional $590 increase for fiscal 28. And then in the third year of this, fiscal 29, there would be additional $3.3 million draw, and that would result in additional $329 increase. So if tier two were to pass, it would result a $1,200 increase on a $1 million home after three years. That's a permanent increase. Yeah. Of the- Yeah. So again, it would increase $281 in 2027, increase $590 in 2028, $329 in 2029. In the fund that's been identified in the tier two level. May I add on? Yeah, okay. So I'm just going to add on real quick. So in addition to what I told you were in tier one, tier two adds another police officer in addition to the school resource officer. It adds two firefighters to help reduce the overtime that's been growing year by year. It adds one GIS position to DW. It adds one IT director and one budget analyst to the finance department. It restores the library materials and the remainder of the consolidations for the library. It adds one part-time custodian, one part-time assistant

for the library. It restores one assistant planner, one conservation agent. It adds one part-time senior clerk in Rec and Parks, part-time. And it adds maintenance for Rec and Park, 15,000. It adds one part-time social worker for Council on Aging. It adds maintenance, another 15,000 for Council on Aging. It adds maintenance division for town-wide maintenance to public buildings. That's 450,000. And it restores the special clerk to the town clerk's office. So Alicia, those are broken out over the three years, or is it first year or something? How is it... That's for tier two. It's right away. Okay. So all that is restored in the first year. Mm-hmm. And that carries through- Correct ... to the next year. Mm-hmm. So we're not making any headcount changes- No ... two or three after the fact. Correct. Yeah. And revenues of a, they're now up in the one to 1.5 range right now for the units.Right, for, 28 and 29. And the other sections were the health insurance. Right. Since we saw it in- At the average of the last few years. Mm-hmm. When we say assistant planner, we're talking about sustainability coordinator. Yes. Okay. I know there's disagreement

around the name, but it's a sustainability coordinator position. Through the chair. Yeah, that was one of my questions. Thank you for that. And then I didn't hear, maybe you mentioned it, in regards to not trash, but as in the trash contract that factors in the services of public rec, like local trash pickups and things like that. Yes. Where does that fit in? The groundskeeper. That was in tier one. Okay. So that goes all the way into tier one. Barrels, and yeah. Just down the- 57 trash barrels. Yeah. That's a big one. Okay. So that was tier one, and then, so the main things we talked about, assistant... Okay. It's safe to say, Alicia, just in terms of methodology, the way you're kind of laying out price. So are you assuming in all these tiers that the changes are affected and for fiscal year '27 and the projections going forward- Yes ... based on what primary drivers? I haven't had a chance to really look deeply into the spreadsheet, but what's really driving those draws going forward? Obviously, I think for the schools, they have a different kind of profile than- Right ... things, so that

they're going to be- Ours is definitely for mostly salaries, right? So our salary growth- Yep ... is definitely driving those draws. Mm-hmm. In addition to the positions I've added, in addition to the expenses I've added. Yeah. I think one of the big ones is our maintenance division that we truly need throughout the town. Mm-hmm. And then in three, one of the biggest things you're going to see for our biggest driver is going to be the capital. Yeah. So those are three levy articles. We break them out every year, but they're recurring capital needs that we have all the time that isn't just one-time capital needs, so it really should be a part of the overall. Yeah, that's right, especially on tier three. Yes. Well, I think we simplify our case a lot if we do say, in fiscal year '27, we're instituting all the-- We're restoring all the changes. And then we've got very clear cost drivers in the subsequent two years that you can point to and kind of show. Right. Health insurance being a huge one. They did 100%. Yeah. And look, the revenue can also be a big one as well. Right.

But, I think that makes for a more compelling story, right? And obviously when we get to tier three and you start making investments in future years, that changes the complexion a little. Yeah. Speaking of tier three. Speaking of what? Tier three, did we do that? Yeah. So this is based on a $15 million override. So in year one, fiscal '27, the town will draw $4.2 million. In year two, the town and the schools combined, we're drawing another $6.2 million. Yeah. And in year three, the town and the school will draw $4.4 million. The impact on a $1 million home, with this override is in fiscal '27, would be a $430 tax increase. In the second year, a $624 tax increase. In the third year, $446 tax increase, a total of $1,500 over the three years. So just to be clear, because I think I was looking at the full two, in this, we're drawing year one, right? And that's just carrying it from- Carrying it from So we're not drawing $4 million each year. We're drawing that one time. Correct. Right? That's for the town side. It exists. And then as the-- If you go

down, and then it exists. Yeah. It just carries through. It's not an additional draw. No. Yeah. 460. It's four-- Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Correct. And you're just summing them up there. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And so for tier three, we're adding two police officers. We're going to add four more firefighters for a total of six firefighters to combat the overtime. We are adding one grant writer in development, and that could be used for grants townwide. Recurring capital, as I discussed, at one million. In psychological counseling for the health department, an amount of 60,000. Every year they ask for it, and I've heard a lot with the police department, we need it. We need someone for that. So, and so you give the tax impact based on the $1 million home because it makes it for easy math. In Marblehead, one of the favorite things we like to do is what's the impact on the average single-family home, which currently is $1.291 million. So it's basically running the same calculations. So this is average, not median. Right. Right. So on tier one, it would result in $167 increase, or on this chart, $13.99 a month. If the

tier two passed, a $304 increase. If tier three passed, a $1,186 increase on a $1.291 million home. Do we know what the median home value is right now? Building the image. I don't know, I have to ask the assessor. Close to a million. Okay. Yeah. It's over a million now. Okay. Well, a little bit below what I said. I guess it's 61 half dozen the other. Yeah. But can I say one thing, though? And I know we're going to get to question two in a minute on trash. But this slide going forward, I think needs a note at the bottom about question two, that question two will add whatever. And I know we're going in order here. Just to be clear. But when these come out and go before the community, because that's going to be- Fair enough ... part of a decision-making for a person. Yeah. Protocols. Yeah. Yeah. Now it's taken into account too, when we were. Oh, yeah. No, I know you've done it just for presentation purposes because- Yeah ... people are going to make important decisions today. Yeah. Can I say too? I think a lot of this that isn't

being necessarily related is that you might have wanted, added more stuff back in tier one, right? But it's a question of balancing it with that number. Yeah. Right. So there's that balance between what an override you feel comfortable going for in tier one versus what you ask for. Right. Correct? Correct. So it's that balancing. I know that this is a difficult situation and when you're trying to figure out something that we want to make sure we pass, obviously we would love to pass all of them. But bringing that price level down to a number where it's still a big number for a lot of people who are struggling in this town. But, so you couldn't necessarily put everything in there that you wanted. I know there are other things, and during these meetings that we've been having with the school committee and their leadership that have come in or out, and it's that balancing act at the end of the day. I think people hear that they'd like certain things in here. When you add those up and they compound, that it brings that number up and puts a bigger burden. So I think part

of our job on this is to find efficiencies as well. This is not a true restore. It's pretty far from it. I'd almost call it a survive. Yeah. And that's because I'm watching the show "Survivor" with my daughter right now, so that's why that came up. But I think it's just important to understand this balance of what we can pass, what we need- Yeah ... and what we want. Yeah. There were still choices that had to be made. There was tough choices. Yeah. Every day and every hour. And I'll also ask you about the order in which you would present it. Right? Would you go from the lower to the higher as opposed from the higher to the lower? Oh, the ballot question? Yeah, the ballot question, just to build from a lower restore number and then show the additive effect of the follow. So the sample ballot questions that's presented and what was done on known Melrose. First question was the highest number from the middle, and then the lowest. We've been trying- It just seemed counterintuitive. Yeah. Oh, it has a level of review. So our brains right now are wired to tier

one is the lowest, tier two is the next, and tier three. How it's constructed on the question is a separate decision. Well, I think it makes more sense- Yeah ... to do it that way. Yeah. You don't need- It's the quantum theory. You're not going over all the- Yeah ... all the restores and then narrowing them. You're just steadily adding the restores. Yeah. Yeah. So that'll obviously be a conversation down the road. Yeah. Fair to say one point, then, before you get to this, too. Yeah. I think it's when we've looked a lot, too, about when you put the money in and how much you can save on drawing down on that levy as opposed to front-loading it. I think, Jamie, you were asking, are you expecting more? By putting it out over time, it does save the taxpayer money. Yeah. Right? So you're not hitting them with this big impact up front. You're staging it. Yeah. And so there is some time to prepare as well and to save money over time. It's actually a good calculation that we've done to show that you save money by doing this as opposed to hitting it-

All up. ... all up front. Yeah. All right. Did I already cover these numbers? Tier two? Yeah. $1.2 million. Yeah. Okay. Tier three, a $1.2 million average single family home. $555 year one, $1,369 increase year two, $1,985 in year three. So that's the impact on the $1.2 million home. This graph is showing historic relationship between the growth in home values and the increase in single family tax bills. And the story take from here is that they model had pretty well tracked together until COVID. And then that's when things separated. COVID-- Go ahead. No. Go. So COVID had a significant impact on this community and many others, in which the tax bills did not keep up with the growing value of the homes, single family. So on the left side here is the home value, and on the right side is the increase each year. Yeah. Is that correct? What is that? Right. So you're saying that in- So the left side is the value and the right side is the tax bill. So they're both growth numbers, though. Yeah. They're change numbers. Yeah. Yeah. You can see that they were on target. And is it

cumulative or is it just every year? It looks like the- It looks like it's year by year. You're basically saying- It looks like the home value's kind of like it grows, like a mountain chart. Right. There is a chart if you want to look at it from a single family home value versus- Yeah, there's still the mountain. Here you can see they were right on par. Okay, that makes sense. That one. That one's the one. Yeah. It's the same thing, but one's a change and one's an actual. He's charged with bringing here by request. Yeah. No, it's all good. I'm not saying it's bad. We just need to- Yeah. So you can see basically- We've been playing ... the values in the tax bill. Is that just basically an assessor issue? No, it's that their home values have grown by more than the 15.5%. Well, the tax bill is what you would expect. No. But there's still some lag. What's that? The tax bill is what you expect. It's linear. Yeah. It's limited. It's 2.5. Linear growth, the growth has been very low. 1.025. Yeah. Right. To the X power. Right. But you can see

once COVID hit, it just- To the left ... it goes abroad. My tax bill didn't go down like that. Right. It didn't, but the value- No, it's gone up ... increased the tax bills. Right. And it's still going up, but it's not meeting the- Hold on. Thank you, Mr. Jordan. Okay. So let's fix that. Yeah. So what's driving that gap, if you were to summarize it? The housing market's blown up. No, the question increase in values. So let's translate- The tax hasn't kept up ... let's translate that to inflation. Home values are going up- Yes ... because everything else is costing more, right? But our tax bills are not keeping up. Okay. That's part of the very simplified story, that the cost of everything, inflation. So, and it's staying bi-semiannual growth, is that what you're saying? Yeah. Okay, and probably some growth after that we haven't. Right. From the past. Okay. So, that report is that. The plan of the rates from going down, I guess, as well. So the right side, if we had an override, which would raise it up, and I may add another slide in the future where you can see

the average based on where other communities are on the wheel. Right. You see they're closer to that 13 range, whereas we're way below where the 10.5 is. Marblehead's lower for their tax rate than most communities. And like you were saying, you can show the shift off of each year. Right. And where you would be under fastened. Yeah, we can lay that in. Next, take a look at the numbers on question two. And again, the basis of this question is, do you stay with the trash fee? Do you increase property taxes to replace the fee? Here's an example question. This would be your straight up traditional override question. Um, the projected amount would be $2,298,575, um, to replace the fees. Again, this factors in covering for the next three years. So '28 and '29 are just a growth of that contract? Right. So he's estimating growth of 5%. Got it. And in the first year, we grow it by two and a half and two and a half, so we don't need to raise the other 200. Mm-hmm. So in year one, the number which has been presented elsewhere, the cost for the trash is $2.1

million. Now, that $2.1 million is, if the override passes and that becomes part of the tax levy, that will grow by 2.5%. Yeah. So we just add another 2.5%- Got it ... number on top of that in order to meet the 5% expected cost increase. Of the contract. Right. So about two and a half would cover half of the increase, and then the, uh, 54,660.30 and the other- And then outside of that, because here 30, in theory, we have a deficit of 2.5% funding increase. Got it. I believe that's called- Yeah ... additional 57,000 to meet. Um, and again, the decision, the voters will be, one, maintain as a trash fee. Uh, by doing that, the trash fee will include discounts for eligible households based on qualifying for assessor tax abatements. So working with the, uh, board of health and the health director, the approach is if you currently qualify for any of the tax abatements that are certified through the assessor's office, there'll be some filed discount to the trash bill, as well as all residents will have the option to opt out of the curbside fee. Um, but if they're to deliver the

trash to the transfer station, there's already an existing sticker program. I think it's, what, 150, um, that they'd have to use. Alternatively, if the override passes to replace the fee, um, it would increase taxes to cover the cost of the curbside services, obviously. It would eliminate some administrative costs for billing. So the fact that we're having to implement a trash fee, there are some additional administrative functions that need to happen, the billing and tracking and all that. So, there's an add-on cost by implementing the fee, but it would not be necessary in the tax. But this is to kind of lay out those are the options that voters would have to make that decision. So in summary, for, um, both override questions, one of them, uh, allows voters to choose the service level for operating budget. Mm-hmm. How much of a-Do they want to add on to meet our operating budget needs? And the second one is how do you want to fund curbside trash and recycling? And again, this was intended to provide the big number overall, give folks the basic information. There are a lot of spreadsheets with a lot of information that

backs up all of these that we will be able to send out and put out. You know. Yeah. I think that's one question that I have is, let's say we hit another unexpected air pocket, whatever that might be. What's the opportunity to come back to the town or to use available override? My recommendation as CFO would be to build your reserves. So the policy- Oh. -right now is supposed to have 5% of our operating budget. Yeah. We did a great job last year putting a million dollars in there. Okay. As part of the restore and- And the stabilization ... putting that back. Stabilization. Yeah. Yeah. That stabilization really needs to be built up. So I'd say at least once we get to 5%, we could make this look or create a decision from there. But until you reach the five, you really need to aim to that 5%. That's actually next. What we're going to talk about in our agenda item is our memorandum of understanding. That's right. For the next one, we'll talk about the commitment that we are making by asking for this money to the town. We have a memorandum of understanding.

If you guys want to all run out after this, it'll be worth it to harveye into this. And once we agree on final terms and language, it'll be signed by the school committee chair, once they vote on it, ourselves, and the finance committee. And it's basically, I can pull it up for the next- Sure. Yeah. So in the lower override, the 9 million, are we putting aside stabilization funds to anticipate that? Is that- How are we doing? You understand my question, right? Let's say we hit an unexpected air pocket. That's budget. So it's in the restore. Yes. To restore that funding, it's that important. With that one No, the 250 is the stabilization. Oh, that's right. Yeah. So what we've done this time, which is a little different, is the schools have their portion of the OPEB now. Yeah. And we put in our portion of the OPEB so that they're dedicating some revenue towards it. So in each tier, some is on the school side, some is on the-- Consistent with what we've done with them this year. Yeah. Sorry. We could depark it, yeah. We are defining the draws, right? In our MOU.

Okay. And if we exceed what's allowed for by the draws, besides the stabilization fund, is there anything else we can do to move funds from a future year into the current year? No. No. That's all off the table. Yeah. Well, there is a black swan mechanism, but... I think what we're doing, and I think it would be maybe more appropriate to-- We'll get onto that- Yeah. -to talk about it. Sure. Can I just make one last- Yeah. -suggestion on this before we move on? When we talked about the draw, it was the million-dollar home, then we moved to the average. I would say going forward, just do average- Yeah ... because we got two sets of numbers in here. Yep. And I know pulling it together, but just- Or pick one ... pick one average and be consistent. It's easier to do average. Yeah. I built it on the one million, and then it was- It doesn't work as bad with one million. I actually like the one. I just- It was injected in to- But because that average, whatever is the traditional average is. I like the one million because you can just figure

out that it's basically what for supplier cost. I mean, it's $10, $500,000 on the increase. So it's good for starting, but traditionally it's done- So what we'll be able to do is actually, based on what the override numbers are, give you the multiplier for your home. Right? There's a calculator online. Yeah. And so based on what the override is- But again, recent years, have a consistent number. It's more easy. Yeah. So people- Understood. And I would still say in the past, it's been average and median, not a random million dollars. I know for doing back-of-the-calculations, you had the million is good, but I think I would use average because it's two sets of numbers in here. It's somewhat better than the other. So there are 8,000 sets of numbers in the other one. I understand, but I think it should be consistent. Consistency. Which everyone would go with. Stick with it. So when we turn on this, when we see the same, I just want to see the service levels and what's in the service levels from an operations standpoint, how you've come to put some things in and recommend some things, and why the

department heads might not get-- Didn't get that in that. There's the operations side and analysis that goes on from what's going in each bucket. And now I know that the restore, like we said at the end, that's a hard thing because it's a strategic decision, frankly. I mean, it's just a strategic decision because there's so much at stake if all three failed. And so we're trying here to make something that we feel like would-- Very lucky opportunity for success, but it's also not ideal. So it's kind of just that really safe, I think I felt the break glass number, that saves a lot of jobs. And that's how we end up with that partial restore, because it really becomes a strategic decision because of what's at risk. Yeah. Anybody else on board before we open up for some public questions, comments? Hold on one second. I cannot let you go first after asking her to wait so many times. Just before we get there, anyone else on board feel good?Okay. If you don't mind standing up the microphone, and if you're ready to go. It doesn't seem like you've been ready yet. You can-- Come

on up. Let's go for it. Will she be- The microphone. Will she be caught? I think we do. We can make it fair with-- If you don't mind saying your name and address. Thank you. Okay. So the average citizen, and I look at that, is this big, and I think it's confusing. And I've had this conversation with my friends because we've read about it. I understand rationally, I'm thinking I understand rationally why you're doing it in tiers, which is because the numbers are huge and the losses are potentially great. So if we can spread it out in some way, we can make it easier on the taxpayer. Is that the rationale? More choice, yeah. Meet people at different stages of their- Okay. So if you have three choices, and the voting is that you can vote for each choice, but if you vote for each choice, then I tally the numbers up, then you're voting for $36,000. No. No. The highest one that passes. So the highest one that passes gets a majority, is the one that goes. So if two passes, one's gone. Okay. So if everybody wants to go-- If you think about

people trying to look at their pocketbooks, and they go for the lowest thing, right? The lowest number. Then, where are we? As far as? The whole lot. It's a $9 million- Dollar over three years. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, we're going to get taxed $9 million over- Over a three-year period ... three years. But what are we losing? You're talking about how you're going to restore it, and my ear has been listening to, wait, when am I going to lose? Yep. Right. And I think you're going to hit the population better if you say, "This group, if you don't do it, you're going to lose this." Yep. "This group, if you don't do it, you're going to lose this. This group, if you don't do it, you're going to lose." We need to do a better job of explaining that. Yeah. Yep. And so let me make sure that I'm clear on it. So I can vote for two things? But I heard you say- You can vote for all three, so if you vote- But what good does that do? Because if you vote at nine, 12, and 15, the highest would go, so your vote

would count as 15 million instead of the nine and 12. Oh, okay. But you can vote, or you could just vote the nine. It's up to you. But see, I really feel like we should bite the bullet. If you wanted to- You'd get us covered so that we don't have to go through the shooting. Oh, I think we agree with Phil more. So then you would vote yes on all three. Okay. Right? Because it's the majority. So you want to make sure you have a majority. If you want all, and this was just the beginning of it, we will get out there and explain this very well. But you would vote for all three. Then you would have me. Yep. Oh, yeah. Yep. Without question. That's what I'm saying. Thank you. And also- Yep ... to get more clear on getting the numbers out. I hear the phone number. Yeah. Making sure people understand which one is which, and the comments, that sort of thing. Yeah. That's great feedback. Thank you. Because this looks like a lot of... I know you had to go through it- Yeah ... but that's not what we want. No,

I think that's what we're doing, yeah. Thank you. Thank you for waiting. Hi. I'm Linda Ben, director of the public library. On behalf of myself and my staff, I would like to ask for more clarity on the decisions or on the positions that you decided to restore. May I ask for that meeting? Yes. Yeah, yes. Sure. Because these are things that I would like to get some clarity on. They don't match what I was thinking, and I would like to figure that out. Yeah. We've received three scenarios. So I just base it off of the first scenario that we were given instead of going back and changing it again for the third time. So I'm happy to sit with you. Okay, great. Thank you. All right. Sure. Thanks. Thanks. Hi, Lee Blander with the Marin Current &amp; West Portal. Just a couple of quick questions. When are you guys going to vote on this? In two weeks? In a- Probably. There's three weeks left, right? Yeah. Three and a half? Yeah. There are some issues that we can't vote on this until the school votes. Right? Which is tomorrow. Which is tomorrow night. So we

will vote after that. So you'll schedule a meeting, and- We have a meeting scheduled for the 22nd. We will determine it'll either be then or before. Okay. Yeah. Any concerns that you're-- Obviously, right, this is super confusing, especially if you're a lay person, average resident, that people are going to walk in there. You've got three and a half weeks to explain it to them, and they're going to be overwhelmed and just say, "Nope." Yeah, so I'm worried about that. So just to be clear. Yeah. At town meeting, you're not voting on the three. You will be voting for those three in the ballot. Okay? So at town meeting-- So hold on. Right. So if you pass town meeting, you're authorizing the select board to put it on the ballot. So what's a town meeting? So at town meeting, you'll be authorizing the- What is it? It's basically, you'll be authorizing us to go for an override at the highest level, right? And then we will bring those three. So I'm sorry. You have to give us the allocation. You actually have to put the money toward it. Article 29. What's that? Article 29. Thank you.

Thank you. In Article 29, you're authorizing the select board to bring it to the ballot. Okay? It's up to us how we bring it to the ballot. We are telling you how we're going to bring it to the ballot, but it is up to us how we put it on the ballot. So is there a figure attached at town meeting? There will be a figure attached, which will be to authorize to go up to the highest number. So the figure- And then we bring them ... attached is on town meeting? That is what will be on the town meeting. We'll vote that. When we vote that, yes. That's correct. That's it? Yep. And we have to allocate, right, where those expenses go, because you're basically approving the appropriation. Yeah. Okay. Right. And then it's not until June at the ballot that they will pick their tier. Exactly. So yeah. Select board. And I just want to make sure. These are obviously, again, lay person, I'm not great with budgets, but-These are permanent increases. So you have the additions every year, but how does that play out? What's the impact on someone who's going to live

in town for the next 20 years? Those increases stay on the levy. They're now like the left, right? They go up 2.5% every year. They grow up 2.5. Correct. So in addition to whatever you're paying in year one, two, and three, you're paying 2.5% on that. So think of this, is the town passes capital projects- Right ... frequently in which their taxes increase to pay for whatever it is, and when that bill's paid for, it goes back down. Right. What is in the operating budget and what you're paying the increase for are for services that are intended to last forever. You will always have a fire department, you'll always have a police department, so it's increasing your operating budget to meet the needs in the next three years and going forward, because it'll be built into the base of your taxes. Okay. Cool. Last question. We're just going to talk about the memo of understanding in a second. Right after, I understand. Can you just explain, right now to say, if people vote for this override, one of any of the three tiers, is this select worth promising not to come back and ask for

another override for at least three years? Yes. Cool. Thank you, guys. Alderman George Rosenblatt of Avenue M. I'm just a little concerned. I went to Marblehead High before here, so I don't understand this. Well, I do understand it, I think. But I think a lot of the older taxpayers are not going to understand this. So when we get the ballot, after it goes to town meeting, I'm sure it'll go through a town meeting. I don't have an issue with that. But when we go to vote, we can vote up to three times on that one question. Mm-hmm. And that's where I'm confused. I'd rather have this separate, because I want to make this clear to the taxpayers of Marblehead. And what's going to happen here, if people put multiple choices there, and people that don't have money vote number one, it's going to be like ranked choice voting. They're not going to get the results that they may think that they're going to get. So why are we making this so confusing? We've had overrides before, and you either vote for it or you don't. You put in money. So why can't you put the

nine, the 12, the 15 as three separate questions, and why are we confusing people? We are, and whichever the highest passes, goes. So you're going to have, don't quote me on this language, but do you vote yes for the $9 million override? Yes. Okay. On the second one, do you vote yes for the $12 million override? Whichever one has a majority, that's the highest wins. Yeah, no, I understand that. But those are three different options. If we did it the way I think you're suggesting- Yeah ... then it would play out. If there are three separate questions, it could be nine plus 12 plus 15 gets you the whatever the public math is, if you do it as separate questions. Figure only one will pass. Prop 2.5 allows for these constructs of the question in the, they call it the pyramid, we're calling it the tier. Same thing. Is a construct to allow for you to choose how much additional resources you're willing to commit to without it being cumulative of individual questions. Okay. I think it's so important to have your language right around it. Mm-hmm. Yeah. I think- And someone's going to have

to be like a lawyer. Oh, yes. Oh, there is. We'll be having public forums- Yeah ... on this before people go to the polls on June 8th. So there will be public forums about this. So this is truly just, they're valid, legitimate questions, especially seeing it for the first time. But that's our responsibility, and that's on us to clarify that, and we will have to, in part of these forums, and hopefully people will be paying attention and attending, to kind of walk people through what's at stake, what's in a tier, what's not in a tier. And if you want to vote for the highest tier, you need to vote yes, yes, yes. If you want to vote for tier two, you vote no, yes, yes. If you just want to vote for tier three, you vote- You just stop. You got to stop. You're just confused. Say stop like three seconds into the... Yeah. It works- Move forward We will give it- ... in other communities. That's why we have confidence in the process. So, it has worked successfully in other communities, and there's a lot of- We'll bring examples ... research out there for

us to put before to clarify this. We'll bring examples, right? Yes. And we can even do practice if people want. Yes. For sure. And I think with the sample ballot, if they want to know how they want to vote. And on the trash, so if I voted for the $9 million and I vote to keep the tax, on the tax rate for the trash, it's $11 million. Correct. And I'm supporting leaving the board of health on the taxes because you don't have to hire the clerical help, pay the benefits. I don't think one person can handle that whole job. I think it's going to cost a couple of hundred thousand dollars, and I think it's going to pay in the neck every year sending out all these bills and all this stuff. I think it would be cheaper for the taxpayer to leave it as is. I just want to make sure if I support the board of health and something else doesn't go through, you're not going to steal that from me for something. We can't. Good. Yeah. That's what I want. And that'll be part of our commitment. Thank you. Yep. I appreciate

that. Christine. Christine Duchow, Three Dannys Way. To follow on that trash question, somebody asked me the other day if I own a two-family, do I pay the fees, $280 per floor for the two-family household, or is it because she owns the whole building? I had no idea about that. Mm-hmm. Right? So that's something we have to think about for multi-unit. And she also said, "What if I have... garbage cans the first year, and I'm paying for it, and I decide year two that I don't want to do it anymore. So then what do you do? You turn the garbage cans- You do ... back to the town. Yeah. So now the town is in garbage barrel management also, storage and- Mm-hmm ... right? All the logistics of people who want it, don't want it, or whatever. So- They're going to be in that garbage barrel management either way, right? Correct. Because once you have that, like in the... I work in Salem. Yeah. It's the same thing every time. If your garbage can gets ruined or something, and every time you sell, you got to show you have it, so it transfers with. So they're

going to do that either way. Okay. That'd be my opinion. Okay. But as far as the two-family versus the single family, that would be up to the board of health. How they're going to do it. Yeah. So, okay, a totally unrelated thing, and I can look this information up tomorrow for you. I have databases going back to the '90s when we were working on overrides. I believe we've always used the median household when we've done- Mm-hmm ... debt exclusions and everything. Correct. I have all those files, and I can look. Yeah. So I think we should be consistent with what we've done in the past, but I'll look that up and- Yeah, I think we have always used medians. I've just had arguments from people that... Yeah. Well, because if you use the average, and you've got those really high end- Mm-hmm ... houses, they really skew it, right? Yeah. So the median, I think is what we've used, but I will double-check that, but I'm pretty sure. Sure. I know we did for the general override in 2005, but I believe we did that for the debt exclu- so yes. Thanks. Okay, cool. Thank

you. Hi, guys. Constance from Europe. I know it's on the agenda, but thank you, Amy, and also thanks again to the same. So my first question is really basic, which is, is the presentation posted? No. Not yet. There are people in this room right now who have printouts of it? We printed enough for this meeting. Mm-hmm. The ink was still wet when we printed them. I know, but I would like to have a printout of it too tonight, please. Mm-hmm. Because those of us who are trying to explain all this to, now a huge group of people in the community, we need that level of detail, and it's hard when you can see it on screen. Yeah. Thank you. Yay. That's so good. Okay, sweet. Thank you, though. Also, and we are a ballot question committee, because we are not at town meeting yet, therefore, I can ask this question in a public building. On our website, marmala.org, we have a process flow. It explains everything we just talked about, right? Yeah. So if we haven't been voting on it at town meeting, what are we then voting on in the ballot? I would love

for somebody to look at that tonight and tell me if there are any concerns with what that process says is going to happen, so that we can be really clear with people, because this needs to be mapped out really clearly right now. Mm-hmm. As part of that question, when you get to the end of the flow, it says at the ballot, if we get there, we will vote on each of the tiers, and we've had plenty of conversation about this tonight. But I am asking you guys if you could clarify amongst yourselves tonight how that would work, rather than wait and get examples from other communities. Can we just clarify at the board table what you mean by the highest vote wins? Does that mean that if a ton of people show up at town meeting and they... Sorry, at the ballot, and they only vote on tier one, and that's the most votes, wins in tier one, right? Or is it the margin? Not the most votes. So the threshold for each tier is whether you get a majority yes or a majority no. Got it. So if question one has a majority yes.

Passing. Okay. Sorry? So 51% of tier one- Or if it's tier one ... makes sense. Or- 75. Okay. Got it. Say it again. Say it again for me. So here- Just got it. Let me give you an unusual, unlikely scenario to illustrate, right? Yes. Question one gets a majority no, for whatever reason, 49/51 no. Question two, who knows what, whatever that gets you. Question three gets a majority 51 yes, 49 no. That's the number. Even if- Okay ... the lower tiers have lost- Reduces how many people. Right. Yes. Okay. So all you got to do is you got to get a majority yes on each tier to qualify to be determined which is the highest value that got the yeses, that's your number. Is that clear? Okay. No. We got it. Okay. There's the ballot for that. If you can find a better way for me to say it, I'll take it. I will. We'll do it tonight. Yeah. Wow. Let's just make A all the time. Let's say we start voting on nine. We vote on nine. Now we're voting on 12 times. 12 times. Explain why that's times 12. Okay. We then vote

on 15, explain why it went from 12 to 15, and whichever gets the most votes stays. And then it would stay. So if more votes- It's not the most votes. It's not. It's the highest tier that has a majority wins. Right. So even if, let's say tier one, 100% of the people voted yes for tier one. I think we get the point. Yeah. Total vote. All right. 5,000 people vote. Tier one gets 5,000 yes votes, zero no. Tier two gets- 4,500. Well, it's split. It gets barely one vote more of yeses than nos. Tier one has far more votes for it, but tier three is the number because it got the majority yes- Right ... and it's the highest value that received yes votes. Whether it was a 51/49 split or a 99 to one split, that doesn't matter. So that's the logic. As long as it reaches the threshold of a majority yes. That really changes the payout- Yeah ... for the soul fund, which is really important for people. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. It's six to seven votes. Yeah. Guys, I think the simplest wayIt's the highest tier that gets a majority wins.

You mean the most expensive tier, right? Like, there's lots, the one- I don't like the word expensive. The tier with the highest- Ah ... highest override amount- That's all I was saying ... where the majority wins. The sixth price tag and the highest majority. Yeah. That's what I- No. Not the highest majority. Any one with 51% It's not a highest majority. It's binary. You either get a majority or you don't. Okay? No, you either get a majority or you don't. If you don't get a majority, that tier does not pass. Okay? But you just used the example of 100% on one and you- But forget about... Just let's take that all out. If tier two gets a majority by one vote- Yeah ... that passes over tier one, regardless of what happened in tier one. Ah. It's- It's, yes. What's the- Four out of five. What's that? It's a higher ballot. It's the best research attempt. Yeah. If they receive the majority, yes. Either by one vote or 10,000 votes. Okay. They just received the majority, yes. Okay. You know what's been very clear tonight? Is that this is confusing. So we're going to break

it down as simple as possible without numbers, in words, I think. And that this is- And we're not- Yeah. I mean, there's other communities that have done it, so we'll look and see how, like, you don't mean to Just- take them down the field. Yeah. But if they were successful, then we'll just use some of those. I think we have another question. Has Marblehead ever done a tiered override right now? Got you. If you could just quiet down a little bit. So this is Marblehead's first tiered override? I think so. I think so. Okay. Absolutely is. A bunch of the other communities that have recently, including Winchester, failed at their override. Do you know how many are doing tiers versus straight up questions like what Mr. Jordan was suggesting? Like, is the tier riskier? Is it not as risky? I understand that it's a strategic- I have- ... option, but ... I don't have like a number to list. Okay. Just my experience of tracking this over the years- Yes ... it appears to me that fairly recently, more and more communities are going to the tiered overrides than a single number override. And they're

successful. And they've been successful. More have been successful- Than not ... than not by going to the tiered. Okay, it's actually- I think- Two ... what it does, and I had a conversation with a bunch of folk when I was doing the Citizens Police Academy, and they were drilling me with budget questions, and I best I could explained this tiered system, and the response, this very small sample size, was, "Thank you for at least giving us a choice. We appreciate that." So to the point of a single number, for us to come up with that single number that meets as many of the needs we think we can fit in a number that will pass at the ballot, means we have to be total mind readers of a vast majority of voters. We're not. Right. By having tiered levels, we don't have to be perfectly good at how much can we put in for the necessary, for the critical things we need, that will be acceptable to the voters. And so you have three levels to choose from so the voters can tell us, "This is how far we're willing to go. This is how

far we're not." Gotcha. Can you guys come up with the median numbers tomorrow and send those out? Like sort of the- Just so you know, you can go to the DOR website. If you just Google, "What does a tax levy increase or override do?" There's a DOR website, which is where this comes from. You can go right in there, and we can get that link for you. Just literally, I Googled it. But what do I type in? Like- You choose Marblehead. Okay. You put for every $1 million, or if you wanted to put $9 million, and then it'll give you, you can ask for the median, the average, or a specific amount. Got it. And you can- You can also go and find, there were 56 communities this fiscal year, 56 communities that went and asked their communities for overrides, and it'll show you on the DOR which ones were successful, um, and examples of the... I'm not sure exactly the whole list of people that use the tiers. Stoneham and Melrose, just some North Shore towns that use the tiered approach. But you can, from there, do a little research and find out if

they use the tier approach or not. And they've numbered it. And then I know that there's another, just from the community of Globe, there's another 50, mid 50 communities this next fiscal year- Next year ... passing overrides. But if you guys are going to pick a number and it's not going to be average, if we could get that to- Yeah. I think we're going to move on. Thank you. Yeah. I think we have someone online. Nick Ward. Nick, you there? Are you Nick? Yes, I am. Can you guys hear me? Hey, Nick. Hey. Sorry I'm not in person. I'm Nick Ward, Rolleston Road. Good to see you guys all having fun. That's awesome. First comment I wanted to make is, and I apologize, the camera wasn't showing who was saying it, but just in terms of like, I think it's a little bit rough to be kind of talking about how these numbers are presented when the select board continues to misrepresent how Marblehead's budget works, right? There are not two ways to balance the budget. Okay? It is not just a case of cutting spending or raising taxes. There is a third option. There

has always been a third option, which is new growth taxation. And particularly if we're going to be talking about how the override is impacting the budget in financial year 2029, you absolutely could try to set an aspirational target for how to use new growth taxation to alleviate the tax burden on local residents. So just, I mean, I'm going to keep beating this drum, right? And eventually there will be a second person in Marblehead one day who recognizes that there is actually a third lever to our budget. So that's point one. Second point was, I heard someone talk about the great job that the school committee has done in terms of cutting the budget and getting more efficient. I think they're at the point where we can just say that to some extent they're providing less education, is kind of what's going on, right? Like-They have been sort of embedded cuts that we haven't been able to see because of other failed overrides. And so at some point, we need to just recognize that what's happening goes beyond efficiency and is just less education. And then the third thing I wanted to say is, I'm looking

at the DOR website right now, and out of 351 communities in terms of per capita income from the DOR's perspective, Marblehead ranks 20th. And at the same time, we're talking tonight about average home prices of a million dollars. Are there people who experience indigence in Marblehead? I am sure that there are. But I think candidly, continuing to pretend like this is a community with sort of seething masses of people experiencing poverty, when out of 351 communities, we're 20th in terms of income per capita, and we have million-dollar homes. I think you're just kind of making it a more difficult conversation to be completely candid. I think part of the reason why Marblehead is in the position that it is today is because people were not willing to say things that are true and say things that reflect reality, and I think that's a bit of an example of it, to be completely honest. Thanks. Nick. Nick, do you want to respond? Yeah. Nick, listen, I take your first point, in terms of addressing revenue assumptions. That's something we don't talk about a lot, but it's baked into the budgeting process. So your point's well taken

in terms of trying to find new ways to find new growth and ways to think about that topic. But thank you. I'll take one more. Jack Atkins, 67 Beach Street. I know that there are a lot of variables from year to year, but can we come up with an estimate on what each year does to our tax rate? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. There are actually-- Beach Street. One public reading, just quickly. The median is 998,600, which is really 4,300 from a million. So a million we use is pretty close. Can you hear back, Jim? Okay. All right. Hold on, guys. Web service thing. So a couple things. First of all, because I hear some confusion still about the tiers. I would say the easiest way to do it is once one of the tiers gets a majority, just put a big red yes next to it. Whatever has a no, take off the table. And the yes is left with the highest tax levy increase is what we're doing. Right. That's the simplest way to look at it, I would say. But more importantly, at least for me, is these tiers have

names. I get the names are catchy and they're easier for marketing, but they're disingenuous at this point. When the first tier is called Restore, it's not. And what I've heard at all these meetings is we are going to restore the cuts. Tier one doesn't restore the cuts. Tier two doesn't restore the cuts. I'm not sure what tier three does. Which brings me to my next point. I've been part of a lot of override campaigns through my time in the school committee. Can we please do very clear written what is included in this? Is it a para for the language-based classroom? Is it this? Is it that? Not only was it not written anywhere in a presentation, but you never even listed what is really, truly included and not included. You have to give transparently to people. Right now, we have numbers 9 million, 12 million, and 15 million, and I don't know that anybody in this room has any idea what is represented in those 9 million, 12 million, and 15 million. And you're three and a half weeks from town meeting. You got to do better. I mean, whether you're voting yes or no,

the amount of information you have given, I don't know how anybody would know what to vote, because there's no clear information being given. Thank you. All right. With that, no one else online. We're going to move on to our next agenda item, which is the MOU that Moses was dying to get to before. So we do have the working group for putting some of this stuff together, did also work on basically a memorandum of understanding regarding the fiscal 27 override framework and the financial management plans. It is a six-page document. We're not going to vote on it tonight because of what I said before, that we can't vote on this without the school approving it. So we have a presentation to go through sort of an overview. I'm not going to read this whole thing. Once we have determined the final, I think I can get some good information here. So I'm going to start. Before we get to this, I'm just going to read sort of what I'll call the preamble, which it says, "Whereas the town of Marblehead seeks to exercise fiscal discipline while continuing to provide quality municipal and educational services, and

acknowledges that budgetary limitations in each fiscal year may require the town to prioritize the utilization of available resources to achieve the town's goals and objectives. And whereas the town of Marblehead is facing a $7.7 million budget deficit for fiscal year '27 and intends to present a proposed 2.5 general override to voters. Whereas Select Board/School Committee of Finance may wish to make a public commitment to the residents and taxpayers of the town of Marblehead regarding the structure and implementation of the proposed override for all three years, '27 through '29. And that we agree to the following." And then, basically, the three of us agree to the following parameters and pledge to work together on fiscal years '27 to '29 to achieve balanced budgets consistent with the memorandum of understanding. And part of that, you will see, Lee, is that we do agree to not come back if any tier passes. So you will see on the firstWhat this is, which I just sort of went over a little bit. So you could just go to the next slide. This is a pledge from the Selectboard, School Committee, and Finance Committee for residents, taxpayers of Marwood about

the structure implementation. It does cover the fiscal years '27 through '29. It includes guardrails and commitments for fiscal practice during the term. The separate curbside trash faction is not included in this MOU. So we're talking about the general override. Second one, please. So, if any override tier passes at the ballot, neither the Selectboard nor the school can propose another general override until at least fiscal year 2030. And this commitment applies regardless of which tier passes. So those three red ones from our wood colors is what we are covering here, and we will not come back until the gray, and hopefully we don't come back then. But we are committing not to come back to work within this, and if we cannot achieve our goals under that, then it is on us as town leaders to work within those parameters, and that's our commitment to the town. So the three tiers of override breakdown, and we do not have the numbers here because we're still waiting on the school committee, but basically we will commit to each year similar with that from Alicia, that it should only draw down or to increase the levy by the

amount that will be in there. So we will include in this the budget and the tiers. So the budget for each one, how much money we're going to spend on what, and we will commit to not draw down more, and we've broken it down on the draw for the draw cap total, how much the schools will increase the levy each year, and how much the municipality will increase each year. If something comes up, if some of our projections are wrong, we are committing to each year of those numbers. Sort of what I talked about before. We're not asking for all that money up front and say, "Trust us." We're telling you what we're going to do with the money each year and how much we're going to increase. We will have annual spend caps, and we will have that separated by school and municipal. And they are projected based on projections which we will include in our MOU as an appendix. That'll be included in that document. I think something that you were getting at before, Moses, is if free cash or if we have additional money, that we're going to commit to what we're

going to do with that. Okay? We're not just going to spend it. The original overages will go to stabilization fund. We have a Selectboard policy to get our stabilization fund to 5% of our budget. That will be our first goal, is to grow that stabilization fund. After that, it'll be used for capital needs, and then we will offset OPEB and pension liabilities. So on the flip side of that, if we have either lower revenue or higher expenses, we'll have to adjust our budgets. That'll be on us. Hopefully, we can find additional revenue as well. We will not draw more than the MOU caps. And just in summarizing, those caps remain fixed regardless of any shortfall. Transparency. Heard that word a few times tonight. Reporting and taxpayer protections. We will, at the state of the town, you will get basically a recap of the override funds budgeted and spent year to date. So the state of the town is basically half year. With Munis, we're able to track all of those. You will get exactly-- You know how much we've increased the levy. You'll see how much of those were budgeted, and we will have actual

numbers year to date spent. The superintendent will do that as well, and we will have quarterly updates from the superintendent and the town administrator going through each of those to the chairs of all three boards, the school committee, the Selectboard, and the finance committee. Something else we're going to do in here, we talk about making sure that people are aware of the expanded property tax relief programs. The town meeting last year passed a means-tested senior citizen property tax that is in Beacon Hill right now. I think it's still in the third reading. Get a little confused with this. Of the House, it should go to the Senate. Hopefully, that'll be passed soon and that people will be able to get that break. We will continue to pursue new revenues and efficiencies across all departments. Just because the town is voting to give us money and part of why we've only gone to that part of a store is it's on us to do better as well, where we can make efficiencies and again, build a stabilization fund. So bottom line, disciplined use of funds with strict annual caps of override draws, shared commitment and accountability

across all three boards, and fiscal stability through 2029. Pre-agreed cost controls on day one, variance rules, which we go through in here, and stabilization target fund to provide a target for budget predictability. So that is a high level. In here, we do talk about the structure and the reporting, very detailed, and basically on how much money we will draw down or increase the tax levy. We do talk about our forecasting, which will be part of it. Some assumptions on what went into that. So we've made assumptions on free cash, how much free cash we do expect each year. We are taking a decreasing reliance on free cash. Like this year, we have $5 million in our operating budget. For next year, we're going to four, the following year, three. So that is all built into these projections. You also have some assumptions on health insurance and what we do there. We are being, I would say, let's call it aggressive on the health insurance. We have seen steep increases over the last few years. We're going to look at the average of the last five years. So instead of just building that up and adding

to a potential free cash in our revenue projections, we have a much lower number. I think we're running our numbers at6% right now. A 6% growth. And then I do talk about, I do talk about, I don't do it. If the override fails, that this is obviously not in play, that we will continue. We've talked about continuing to do the unrestricted revenues, the increase in revenues in the years forward, with 62% to the town and 38% to the schools. And we will obviously have to reevaluate our approach. So what we will do is the three boards will vote on this. Tomorrow night's school committee will talk about it. It's inappropriate for us to vote on it before we know that schools do it, in case they have changes or different comments, and I think we would feel the same way. I don't know if anybody on this board, this was distributed in our packet, has additional comments on this. And once we have a final, we will get it out to everyone, but that's pretty high level. Yes. Yeah. Mr. Chair. So I think part of the concept I think is great, support it. I

think the concern is in relation to this and some of the tiers and some of the concerns about the communication in that for the restore, that it's really a partial restore. So based on this, I'm just thinking of something in lines of some of the things that we talked about that were not in a tier one or they were in a tier two, that then whether this is a communication piece, but putting that out as what are the implications of that? Like Nick Ward just brought up the issue of growth. And so I'm thinking, okay, so we have our sustainability coordinator, it was listed as an assistant town planner. That, my understanding, was now listed in tier two. Is that correct? Yes. As currently right now. So now we have this position, obviously, that person has left, but whoever was filling that position, but that position was one in regards to working in line with a plan that was passed, like an initiative passed in a for-town meeting. But also that position was bringing in significant funding. Million Stars work with all these other funding, and that represents growth opportunity for the town. So in

this type of a commitment, we're saying, okay, let's say a tier one passed, then you're preventing that opportunity from bringing any of that additional position potentially. So I just want to think about how we're communicating that, what we're putting out there, and that we are not putting ourselves in a place where we are losing something. That's just the one that comes to mind, specifically that an opportunity to bring in growth and projects- Sure ... and funding that offset, obviously the-- These projects have to be done. They have to be paid for. So if someone else is able to access the funding and energy efficiency or just getting the impact. I just don't know what you guys think about that, but I don't know if that's just the communication piece. But yeah, with just taking out something that is impacting our ability to get additional revenue. Yeah, it's a tough position. I think what we're doing is we're allowing the town to decide on that. Okay. And I think what she's saying is that in the MOU that we are committing to follow our budget, our forecasted budget, and that if we pass that tier one.

So I think that that's something that needs to be communicated upfront to the town. It's a tough position to be in. I agree. We obviously don't want that if those pass. But I believe that we need to make a commitment about what we're going to do and what people vote for. And, yeah. And well, to go back to the-- in regards to the language, that we're not restoring services back to where we are. We have positions that are cut that actually created growth and other opportunities within the community, so it's not- This is almost more of an argument for each being of the tiers- Well- ... in some ways ... not necessarily. It's just we need to be extremely-- And I think it was on what some of the audience feedback is, is we need to be extremely clear about-- I think, I don't remember how she phrased it. But it was really being clear about, okay, if I elect to take this tier one, for example, then what is lost? Very specifically, what is lost? These are all the things that, because you're weighing what the choices are, and I support giving the community

the choice, and that's one of the things that has been brought to us was to give the community the choice. But in that, what is lost? What is the implication of that voice of what is lost when you're voting for this or voting for that? I think this just highlights how incredibly important that piece of the communication is. Sure. That's my concern is like when you're feeling all these things together, there are real consequences to making that type of a commitment that are multi-year losses. Mm-hmm. Yeah. I think it's important to mention it. I think there's a little bit of conservatism built into this because 3 million of our 7 million in deficit is accounted for by what you could argue are one-time moves, free cash, and the decline in local receipts that we had.Because of the decline of firms that were earning interest in the account, right? So we're basically voting on a continuous number tax that's going to compound over a year on essentially a one-time move. And I think that, by the way, I think that is good that we had that in there because we don't know. Again, you mentioned the

declining free cash that we're trying to work on. That gives us a push in there. And I would argue that the local receipts situation is probably a one-time decline. But then again, look, I think it builds in a little bit of comfort or a little bit of wiggle room going forward. But people should know that, and I don't think we should gloss it over because every year people are looking at the revenue side as well, and they're going to ask why there was such a big drop this year. So anyway, it's addressing your point at an angle, right? That there is some uncertainty. Well, somebody comments specifically on MOU? If the people came just to hear that, don't feel like you have to stay. After dinner. Yeah. Again. I know in 2019, I'm praying there was an MOU between the school and the select board. Does this supersede that? I recall that. It was a very different kind of MOU. Okay. It was basically just- But we were on the board. Yeah, it was just an agreement. Yeah, you're aging me. It was just basically an agreement to share more aggressively and to- Okay. So

it doesn't supersede. It doesn't. Great. I don't want to use a lot more public comment. This is so important. You raise your hand, go for it. My name is Susan Shannon. I live in Lynch. I love just to amplify other comments I hear tonight. And what I would like to see going forward before town meeting is to hear, because it's happened, if the override doesn't pass, and that's happened in past years. I remember one year, 16 questions didn't pass. What do we as Marlboro citizens lose as a result of the override not passing? Number one. Number two, if I voted for tier one, what more do I get back? Yeah. If I hear it right, there's restoration of either services and/or people, which is sometimes one and the same. And then for tier two, if I read it right, we get some more services back and for more people. In tier three, we get even more. And I hear- Correct ... earlier now and then, all that information is out, and I know it can change, but hearing that up front, that will help educate Marlboro citizens to vote appropriately. Thank you. So we have

presented before about what we will lose in previous times. We need to put it all together because we- And possibly before the meeting, because there's no way we can absorb all that at the- You're not listening to every word we say in select board every week? Every two weeks? You're not following everything we say in select board every two weeks? Well, I'm way too public. Uh-oh. Challenge accepted, huh? Yeah, perfect. Thank you. No, I think what we do need to do is show those and to summarize, because as I'm sort of hinting at, most people do not come, do not follow. They sometimes read the newspaper, so we need to be very clear about that, for sure. Thank you. Yeah. I just wanted to understand this MOU. Yeah. How binding is this legally? Not everybody here is going to be- Sure ... on the board. And I always thought Congress could always undo what Congress did and all that kind of stuff. So I'm just interested if there's some special rules that apply to this other than the integrity volume. It is a memo of understanding, right? So it's really just an agreement and- Intention.

Yeah. Yeah. The legal term is intention. Right. Enforceable. So- I think we're saying the same ... there are three parties to this, the select board, the school committee, and the finance committee, which are the three most responsible for 90% plus of all the spending decisions. And each board in the contract memorandum will take a public vote to agree to the terms of the memorandum agreement. And there is a mechanism, although the black swan, military term, if a meteorite comes out of space, another COVID, and if there's some high desire need, it needs to change. It takes a two-thirds vote of all three to say, due to extraordinary circumstances, we need to deviate. But it's a- It takes a super majority of all three boards. Yeah. Yeah. So it's a public commitment of elected officials saying, this is our intention of what we're going to do. Put it into the text. We've heard that. Yeah. All right, Mr. And if you just keep it brief. Yeah. I just want to say, even though we're not complying with 3A, we still have been applying for grants. Yeah. Mr. Grader mentioned that, Mr. Thatcher- Correct ... Keezer mentioned

that. So I just don't understand. We should be happy if we get a little something here. It's better than nothing. So I don't want to-- Logan Casey's gone now. We have to remember that- So I'm sorry. Does this have to do with the MOU, which is what we're talking about? We just need you to talk about the MOU, which is the agenda item that we're commenting on. I heard Mrs. Sangimay Reference them. I'm sorry. Mr. Jordan, do you have a question on the MOU? We can't go backwards. Yeah. Okay. So then we're not going to go backwards. So I appreciate it. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Kate, do you have a question about the MOU? Good. On page four of the MOU- Yeah ... you lay out restore, stabilize, invest. Yes, this is a great presentation. Thank you. Thank you for doing the MOU. Thanks to Phil for the slides because I'm going to find it. But you said restore, stabilize, invest. Sarah Fox and I don't agree on much. Sure. But what we do agree on very much is that those terms, they don't represent the reality of the thing. My question is, are

you open to revising those terms so that they more accurately represent what's actually happening? So- Yeah ... restore is a reduction. I think we talked about the partial restore, didn't we? Yeah, I think, yes. But just, it's a reduction. Yeah. It's a reduction to what we know now. So the answer is yes. I think that's where we started and where we've ended up based on- Okay ... that balancing act that we're playing. Yeah. Yeah. But as a community- Yeah ... to get us- Sure ... even back to where we were at all. Yeah. There are southern public schools that are- And stabilize is not stabilize. It's still a reduction. Yeah. So can we call it maintenance? I don't know. Something. It's not stabilizing. Yeah. I think that the answer is yes. These are just a presentation to be consistent with what we've done in the past to keep the tiers. Okay. And I think that we do is very clear, need to do better at communicating this, and that I personally do agree with that. Even partial restore is probably not. You could still go partial restore in tier two, right? So we do need

to get there. Yeah. Well, I think maybe whatever we call it, what's actually happening is that, we had an available budget number. When you did last year's- Yeah ... this year's budget, you add the way we have an available number, right? There was a request by the town and the schools, and there were deficits created, right? So those deficits implied certain actions that the school and the town needed to take, and that involved cuts, right? Right. Now, there were cuts that both sides agreed not to restore because there are additional efficiencies that were found. But then there's also an override component, too. So we're achieving that fiscal year '27 budget based on cuts and an override. Okay, so I think that's where the restore idea comes from. It's like a leaner budget combined with selective overrides. Now, next year, the schools are going to have... And I think that's why we're doing the three years is to bake all of that in to make sure at least we've got the continuation of an efficient but full service delivery budget. I think that's the way to think about it, whatever we call it. And then that's

projected out three years for 1A, and then 1B is like- Yeah ... a fuller- We need to keep- A larger town. Exactly. Or maybe we just keep- Yeah. Maybe we just keep tier one and tier three. But that's kind of what's going on. I understand what's going on. Yep. My question is, can you please consider revised language? Because even in tier one, with all that you just said- Yeah. Yeah ... the schools are losing 14 people. The answer is yes. Yeah. Yeah. There's probably employees that are- Yeah. Answer. All right, last one. Just to follow on that. I think it's good for the community to know that you guys have done efficiencies. It says, I have to work within my budget. Why isn't the town doing the same? Right. So we need to get that message out that this does show that we have efficiencies in the school and the town side. Yeah. So it's not like, okay, we just need this money to get back to where we were last year. Yeah. So I don't know what terms. I understand. Trying to figure that out, but- Christine, I think you're 100% right. And I'm

big on trying to promote the idea that schools have actually been engaged in a multi-year plan- A plan, yeah ... to bring down their headcount in response to declining enrollment, and they've actually done a good job doing it. And yeah, we need to let people know that. It's not like we're just going back to get... We're not going back to ask money to put everything back to where it was last year, and restore implies that we are. So, thank you. Thank you. All right. Really final last one. But I think it's important because it addresses a couple of issues. I think it's admirable that you're taking a commitment to review these numbers on a quarterly basis, number one. Number two, Moses mentioned something about having a little bit of a buffer because we don't know what our rehab might look like or our revenues might look like over the next couple of years. Those numbers are going to be easily identifiable. It's not just a cushion. It's a cushion that has some responsibility to it. Okay. And the fact that since we adopted ClearGov and since Munis, and our finance committee and our finance department

has done an incredible job of granulating our budget, that buffer just doesn't go pad every other department. That buffer goes back. It is identifiable now, which we didn't have as accurate of a tool to identify that number or those numbers. And those numbers would go be allocated either to reserve accounts or back in to reduce our tax rate. The reason I say all that is that at the end of the day, town meeting makes the decision on the allocation of our funds. And it's important to say that our finance committee and our finance director and our administrators have gone to great lengths over the past three years to take our budget to a place that we haven't had the accuracy of it in my lifetime. Yeah. And it's $122 million. They know where every dollar is and where it's spentIt drives me crazy when everybody says, "Well, wasteful spending." It's not wasteful spending when every single department quantifies for every single penny that's spent before our finance committee, who is in fact the auditors that make recommendations only to town meeting, and they're not responsible for any individual board. So- Thank you, Mr. Roth. Harry

Janet? Yes, sir. Terry Tollef? Oh, Terry. Hi, can you guys hear me? Just a quick clarification. On the MOU, it talks about limiting contractual raises. Is that for just union contracts, or does that include individual contracts like the town administrator and certain department heads? Will they be limited to a certain amount of an increase as well, or will they be able to negotiate their own contracts for the larger increases? I'm not sure. Terry, I don't see... I don't think we- There was something. I didn't get it. I didn't take a screenshot of it, so I don't have it. Terry- It was something about controlling the increases over the next years, the pay increases. Is on out of our- Is that on the MOU? Budget that will be attached will be in there, will show the growth rate for all of those, and they are all controlled, correct. Okay, everybody's controlled. So anybody who's negotiating a contract can't negotiate for any more than that, whether it's individual or union, correct? There are constraints built in to the growth of our expenses- Mm-hmm ... ah, and those will be held to. Okay. Because that's been really off.

The individual contracts have been a lot higher than the other employees percentage-wise. So that's good to know. Thank you for the clarification. I appreciate it. All right. Let's move on. Unless anybody here... No. All right. So let's move on to number seven on our agenda, which is the Revolving Fund Board of Health. We have a letter from Andrew Petty requesting the request recommendation of revolving fund dedicated waste disposal for 27. Expenditures from the fund and board health fee for the cost of solid waste under disposal, lease payment of a John Deere backhoe, employee cost, transfer station upgrades and repairs for 1.3. This revolving fund is jointly supported by the Joy of Health and Finance Committee. Anything you want to- Yeah, the, um, finance committee had requested that this fee be leased. Okay, so this is a- Yes ... when we do these- This is a cap. He doesn't have to spend that for it, but they got included in there a little bit more. So it looks like on February 11th, we had a lower number. Correct. Is that correct? And the finance committee asked for a higher one. Okay. Well, the finance committee sets

that, and it's a cap. Yep. Okay. Yep. But I- Yep. Okay. Was this discussed last Friday, or- This was discussed at the finance meeting- Monday night ... Monday. Monday. Monday night, okay. Got it. You're sure? Yeah. So we get a motion to reauthorize following revolving fund accounts for fiscal year 2027 according to Mass General Law Chapter 44, Section 53E and a half. The amounts below, Board of Health, commercial waste disposal, 1.3 million. This motion prevails over the previous motion taken on February 11th, 26. So moved. Okay, so all in favor? We are going through select board articles and administrator review with the board, and I think basically what we're doing is on the articles that need numbers put to them, including all of them, and these were also discussed on Monday night. Yes. Correct? There was one addition I just got from the schools for an PA prior year bill, which I added for total, which I'll need to add for the finance committee as well. So very small. Okay. So what I would like to do is, I guess I will read through all these. If anybody wants to put a hold on anything

in specific, we can pull that out. Mm-hmm. To any questions about the specifics. Actually, just before- Yeah ... you get going. 29 is on the tiers with numbers, and, oh, you're skipping over that one? We're going to put a hold on that. Yeah. Okay. Well, we still going to put a hold on that. Yeah. Yep, I will. No, it's... Yep. Okay. Yep. Because we need one. We need the school committee. Thank you. Yep. So you're going to go through and ask if anyone wants to- So what I'll do is read through them. Yeah. And if you want to put a hold, we'll take that out, and we'll vote on everything that we read through that didn't get a hold, and then we'll discuss the holds. Okay. Any other questions as far as you're concerned? So if I could have a motion to approve the following select board articles, that have been sponsored in the 2026 warrant. Article three, consent articles. A, assume liability. B, accept trust property, none. C, lease town property, none. D, contracts in excess of three years. E, financial assistance for conservation or conversation. Article four, amend zoning bylaw. 3A, multifamily overlay

district. Article six, unpaid amounts of funds in the amount of $60,182.27. Article seven, departmental revolving funds, amount of $4,205,300. Article eight, purchase of equipment of several departments, amount of zero. Article nine, lease purchase, amount of $524,067. Article ten, capital improvements for public buildings, amount of zero. Article 11, walls and fences in the amount of 25,000. Article 12, stormwater construction in the amount of 200,000. Article 13, consent to articles, water and sewer. A, water department construction in the amount of $2,400,000. B, sewer department construction, amount of $2,100,000.C, water and sewer commission claims. Article 15, proposed reclassification and pay schedule administrative at 3%. Article 16, proposed reclassification pay schedule, traffic supervisors at 3%. Proposed reclassification and pay schedule, seasonal and temporary at 3%. Article 18, compensation town clerk at $97,460. Article 19, collective bargaining for fire in amount of... So should we put a hold on that one? So let's put a hold, thank you. Hold, so there is a hold on 19. Article 21, Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical in amount of $749,920. Hold. Hold on article 21. Article 23, expense of several departments amount of $122,762.03. Article 29? Hold. Article 31. Hold. Administrative benefit

amendment, the chief to indefinitely postpone. Article 33, amend general bylaws part one, chapter 39, prohibition of cryptocurrency automatic teller machines. Article 34, dissolve public works committee. Hold. Hold on article 34. Article 36, amend certain bylaws related to the Department of Public Works. Housekeeping. So if we could have a motion for all the articles there except for the ones that were put on hold, which I have as 19, 21, 29, and 34. Second. All in favor. I think why don't we go back through and talk about them. I think the article 19, we just come back and revisit. We have a meeting next week to discuss that. Sorry, I missed the question. For 19, for the bargaining of fire. Let's just leave that on hold. Yeah. We have a meeting what, Tuesday? We haven't seen it yet. Tuesday, exactly. Yep, we haven't seen that. You. Sorry, you. You. Okay, can I tell them you're a dead gulp? Alexa, article 21, you put a hold on Essex North Shore and Aggie and Tech. Yeah, I just had a question on that. Just want to verify, because I know there's been a lot of changes there. So is

that the final number? Like is that confirmed? Yes. But that is- This year. This fiscal 27. Right. So, just following up with that, going forward, as that number changes due to the- The finance- ... policy changes. The finance committee is looking into that. The chair and vice chair are working with the North Shore Collaborative to dig deeper into the assumptions and numbers for growth since they changed the way the lottery is, the way kids are now taken into the lottery system versus the application and interviewing way. So it's- Right. We think our numbers- Like completely changed it. Yeah, so, they will be working closely with us on what those benefits will be. Go a-- Oh, go ahead. No, sorry. Do you know off the top of your head, what's the change from last year to this year? I'm just wondering. Per students. So I think- We went from 35 to 39. And it's about 21-ish per student. Yeah. So, we have what that dollar value, because it's the number of students, and then the cost per student gets adjusted every year. Right. So those two factors account for the increase. Just the allotment that we

have received- So- ... has increased significantly. I know Danvers- Yeah ... this is a $2 million line item. Yeah. But we're not filling all that allotment is my understanding. Right, now. Right, so- So we went from- But this is a big conversation with an MOU to not- ... in fiscal year '29, we're at 468,000 in '25. What, what? I'm sorry. Say again. 468,000- Okay ... in '25. Then we jumped to 627 in '26. Now we're jumping to 750 in '27. So, this jumping, we're expecting another significant jump. So, the finance committee is working on this and said they may need to go to the state level, trickle, have discussions with members of the board on this because they're getting decent- So there are two factors. Because that's coming from the general fund. Yeah. Correct. Mm-hmm. Yeah. There are two factors. So it's what are their cost increases, which is a cost per student, and then because of the change of how they do the enrollment, the smaller communities are now picking up a larger number of seats. And because it's a lottery, I think if you apply, you get to fill the seat. And so

the concern there is the enrollment is going to shoot up significantly. And they're growing at like 5% a year. They are. Which is- Way higher ... how do you sustain that with a 2.5% increase? You don't. You don't. It's just not sustainable. That's- Right. So yeah, just like I said, this obviously, yes, that's three numbers, not insignificant. But at the same time, this concerns me in regards to just thinking about the bigger picture MO here and making sure we're thinking about, like this is something that could grow significantly. If you look at, we talked about this today, if you look at those line items, they're the biggest budget busters that are happening. We don't have control over I don't think any of them. Right. Absolutely. Which is why- They're external- ... we're bringing it up ... external entities- Right ... that make the decisions that impose the cost on us. Healthcare, the GIC and MS. GIC. Are our biggest drivers. Right. So I would definitely say to talk to the vice chair of the finance committee, because I know she's digging deep into this right now. Okay. So I think your concern is, like if

you budget for something like that, it pushes that override number up- Yeah ... huge as well. It's like that- Right ... that balance. It's- Because a lot of communities will have to go back. Some will have to advocate towards the state if it's some change, that push off the communities. Yes. So, I think what goes back to just the clarity of this is one of the challenges that we're looking at. Other communities that have already proceeded to send larger numbers of children in the past are paying significantly higher bills, whereas now if we have more seats allotted, right now there's only 3% increase. But let's say, for example, there's a fall next year or something changes dramatically. And now we've made a commitment to the town of Marblehead. That's why I just want to hold, because- Yeah. It's tough. But it's not in, to be clear, it's not in the operating budget, right? It's a separate audit. It is the operating budget, because what I do is those levy articles- Yeah ... I subtract them off the top for what's available to the operating budget. It's in the general fund. Yeah. So it does affect

us. Yeah. So it grew from seven to 1.5, for instance, we did. It's coming from us. Yeah. I mean, they- Well, no, it's obviously coming from us. Yeah. No, I mean it comes out of the general fund. And my concern is the percentage increase is significant. That's a good point. No question. On adjustment. And that's why this year we cut the funding in half for the walls and fences from 50 to 25, and from stormwater from 400 to 200 because we couldn't afford it, and we don't have that option with that. It has to be funded. So I think that's a good point. Okay. Are we obligated to send up, do we have any discretion over the amount of seats, or we're obligated to? No. It's imposed on us. That's why I'm concerned. Okay. Yeah. That's the law change, and it's going to be a matter of effect on the communities. But is it an incorrect assumption to say that there could be that gap period of time where, let's say we have an increase of 12, and we say, okay, this is more than we can sustain, and we are coming to the state

to ask for relief. That relief might not happen. Correct. Let's say that problem occurs in FY27, 28. That that relief might not happen if we've made some sort of significant double this number increase. Right. And so what we have to do, I think as Dan said, is make those tough decisions between the schools and the town on we have to cut. Right. Yeah. I understand. So we have no option in terms of participation. We're required to- We're required ... to participate as long as you're a member of the school system. Yeah. Then they will start. I don't know what the- Do all towns allotments go up, or just a certain amount every time? So half is sufficient. No, all of the sudden. So what happened when they went to the lottery system- Right ... there was a vote to change the allocation, and basically the larger communities, which also have the larger share of vote because of the proportional vote. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Or something like that. Yeah. Okay. That's what he's saying. Yeah. Yeah. Obviously we want to send kids there, but- Yeah, it's a high value thing, really. Right. Increase its transcendental, but basically

it can build on. It's not like we get that money back. That's your problem. Yeah. I just think it's important to have this conversation because we talk about the volatility in regards to healthcare and other things like this. I think this is just something to put out there and say, hey, this is one of the things that we're juggling and looking at. And one of the challenges of this type of agreement, and so the public knows if that were to happen, just as you're saying, we've made this commitment, this is what we would do, and one of the things that can happen that has nothing to do with anything we can control. Okay. So we're going to, just looking at this, there's 21, 20. 29. 29, I think we just continue to hold. Right. You going 21? I was going to combine the one, said why don't we do it, but sure. So if I could have a motion for the select board to approve article 21. Thank you. Essex North Shore Architectural and Technical in the amount of $749,920. So moved. Second. All in favor? Just one quick question. Yep. Article 31, you're fine

with the indefinite performance? Yeah, we approve that. Yep. Okay. Okay. Article 29, I would think we need to come back and revisit that one once the school votes. Yeah. And then Jim, you put a hold on article 34. Yeah. I just wanted to say a few things. We voted to put this on a number of weeks ago, and I always say I never deny something on the warrant, no matter what. And that's one thing. But since then, I became a better understanding. There's also Article 35. Article 34 was from our board. That eliminates the public works committee. 35, I think, modernizes it and makes some changes. And I am very much in favor of keeping the public works committee. And I'll start from a couple of years ago when I was on the Brown School Building Committee. We had to put power from the, the power originally came into the Bell School from the Jane Road side, but we were doing an underground utility from the Darkwest side, and we ended up getting it done with town resources, but it was a big juggling act. I think DPW dug the trench, and MMO did this

and stuff like that. But we didn't have the, the public works group wasn't active at the time, and it was really quite an effort. Since then, I've seen the public works group in action, and they've done a lot of stuff. For example, with Park and Rec, they've gotten a lot of stuff done without having to go to private contractors. And then, several of us were at the Shelly Bedrosian show last night on the Reynolds. It is clear she's utilizing-That group. And, so that's why I'm actually-- I am not in favor of dissolving the Public Works Committee, and I think they were a good group. I know there have been concerns about public meeting, lawyer issues. I don't see those at all because we have other groups, such as the Compensation Committee, Traffic Safety, that have members on them, and that never seems to get into a... Again, I know there's some issues with who's in charge. And I think it's the town administrator's responsibility to make sure he or she has the best people in the right roles to make those expert decisions. So, I'm not in favor of 34. So let's just... If I

could- Yes, sir ... Mr. Chair. I think you've kind of identified the key issue here. Public works is a big part of our whole operating budget and what people experience in the town. I think we just have a governance issue here. I agree that in and of itself, this kind of group can be very helpful. But I am worried about the potential conflicts. Now, I'm not, because the town administrator is our designee and should really drive that process. I'm wondering if there's a way to kind of, so to speak, split the baby a little bit. And I don't know whether it would be acceptable for Thatcher to change the composition of the committee, to designate him as the chair who I know from Thatcher's point of view, it's another committee that he has to sit on, and I'm very cognizant of that because we have a whole bunch of committees as far as the selectboard goes. It's a lot. It's a lot, yeah. But I'm also very sensitive to Thatcher's view that, at the end of the day, he's ultimately responsible for it as our designee. So I'm just trying to think of a way

that we can still get the benefit of having that group of people really focused, dynamic on public works, but we address the governance issue that Thatcher's concerned about. So I don't know whether we keep it on hold or whether we take a vote on it, but, we might have to. What do you think about that, Thatcher, in terms of a redesign? Well, again, that committee was created in 1970- Yeah ... prior to there being an administrator. Being an administrator. I agree 100%. So its purpose and existence was to function due to the lack of a town administrator. Now that there is a town administrator- Yeah ... my sense is that even if I was chair, I would be one member of a committee made up of all my subordinates. Right. That just doesn't function. So in my opinion- I think it's a conflict ... Marblehead either has a town administrator or it has a community and department heads. It cannot operate with both. I don't know any municipal government or organization that can operate like that. Well, what is this about then? Why has it been resurrected? Is it a control thing or is there

really a benefit to having a particular group of people together, which I can see being true, and also speaking their minds separately from your department heads and so forth. Yeah, as far as all the coordination, all the benefits everybody talks about of the coordination and collaboration, that happens through the normal administrative process of running the town. Absolutely. Right? We have department heads, we have ad hoc meetings. Yes. We have a smaller group of... I mean, so all the collaboration, all that happens. Why the necessity now? It's not quite clear to me. Right. There are, I guess, times in the past, a warrant article that department heads felt like they didn't have enough of a voice to object to a warrant article to pass. Right? They want that voice. And again, my response to that is, then let me know, and I'll stand up and be the voice. Right. And I'm not aware of any of the department heads that we currently have that are shy of expressing their opinion when they need to express their opinion. So, all the things that they say is necessary, can operate without having a committee that basically dilutes the

authority of a town administrator. I remember there was a state bill that came through, that introduced a governance board over a particular part of the tax increase. I can't remember the name, I think it was CAP or... Do you know if you guys remember that? But the selectboard shot it down for the same reason, because it started to present a division of control over a part of the tax increase, which was unacceptable. So I'm super sensitive to it. I don't know if the proponents want to really articulate why in and of itself it's advantageous. I mean- Versus just- Yeah, versus just- Per project. Versus just. Right. I think in the past- Or have ... we've done, like the Brown School Week, it was a committee and people, different representatives on it. Well, it's a focus group, no question. I see it's definitely pulled together. But what's the advantage of not having Thatcher leading that as I think as our designee, he probably should be, from a governance point of view. But I'm still not clear to me why there's such an advantage. Yeah. Why there's such an advantage. So we're just discussing Article 34, not

35, but if you- Yeah ... go to 35, it says language to- Yes. Yeah ... make recommendations to the appropriate town official to effect proposed projects, amendments, et cetera, et cetera. Right. Which I read as make recommendations to the town administrator or the selectboard or whatever. Right. The other thing I'm concerned with too- Okay ... is- That's just going to be gone in two years, right? You're gone. You're done with your contract. We're going to get someone new. Right. Then where's the continuity? We don't know what we're going to get. Well, but his argument is that those processes and procedures get taken over by the new town administrator, right? No, I know, but you get continuity from a group. In my world, I would love to have a group saying, like, "Okay, you guys think about all this, like, details and stuff, and come to me and let me claim credit." But anyhow, come- What about department head meeting? Yeah. I mean, that's... Yeah. Right? Yeah. And there are times, maybe this is concern, in which there are opinions of department heads that are not accepted and moved up the channels for just a general

management sense. I- You pay me- Yeah ... to make the hard decisions, right? Sometimes I have to make decisions at the department level and say- Yeah ... "No, we can't do that." Well, I will say this, one resident told me this past week, one thing that about Biddy is as opposed to publicly- Recommended ... as opposed to publicly- Hold on one sec. I think Alexis has something. Oh, you're good. That's pretty much my way. Okay. Alex, go for it. I'm going to tail her. Yeah. This is just a question. I think listening to really what the intention is, and I understand where it came from, created prior to the town administrator. Here we are, and in this time where, in the last five years, it has been increasingly evident how important it is for the departments to work together, one, for efficiencies and then not to have individual silos. So I think from a financial perspective, how do you have the opportunity to do that? And so when I think about this, I guess my question is separated from a department meeting, where you're having more of a leadership meeting, is there a mechanism that

would allow the department heads to have that sort of discourse and conversations where then they're still coming together to make recommendations that are elevated to the town administrator or brought to the select board or whatever. But that to me, and this is an honest question because I see those two meetings perhaps as separate entities and maybe you can speak to that a little bit, but I think that's what comes up in my mind as looking at how important it is for the overlap on these departments on an operational level, separate from more of like a brainstorming session or just some of the projects that we've talked about over five years where- They're department based Well, I think it's just different from the department. I see department meetings more in line with like, we all get into this. I know from my own department meetings, right? You're in the day-to-day grind. Well, where is that space to have that, okay, where are these efficiencies? How could we maybe handle this differently? Is that perhaps a mechanism that allows those other conversations to happen? And so that's just what I'm posing is like, I understand where it

came from. I understand where we are now. But in 2026, I do have seen over the last five years a need for those conversations to happen that are separate from day-to-day operational type oversight. So I don't know. Well, you and Jim, Mr. Chair. Sorry. You and Jim really raised very good points, right? And I think one of the key things is the advisory question, and then it's kind of like a specialized group, right? So, if you feel that it's an advisory group to you, as our designee for all the operations on the town side, that's a different question. If you think that there is a separate governance interference that runs that is possible, so that it's empowered on its own to make decisions over your head without great consideration, that's kind of problematic. That was- In my view, it is. And I think it's- That was the presentation ... and if that's the intent of the members of the current board, then I would ask that we think about that. That was the presentation at the FINCOM, is for that group to get together and review projects and things- Yeah ... and to give opinions

to other boards and FINCOM and others- Exactly ... which is circumventing the role of the town administrator. And the authority of the board as well. Effectively, right? Because you are our designee. Mm-hmm. I don't know. I think you can get the benefit of having... I'd be curious to hear from the proponents of this why this is really so essential. I get the special purpose meeting very much. I understand that. And I think those types of discussions are great, but if it's more of an advisory board, why does it need to be? It's been dormant probably since- I know ... the time the administrator came into existence. But we're totally, we've moved to a centralized unit. It sounds like there are conversations that still need to happen. Oh, I think so. Is what I'm hearing. Yeah. So why don't we put a... So what I'm hearing is- Yeah, I just want to get to the bottom because I'm not fully understanding. I don't think. Yeah Yeah, I want to get to the bottom. Yeah. Okay. It's just a governance issue. So I don't feel like we're out of place. So we have a hold, so we're

going to continue on 19, 29, and 34. Does that sound appropriate? Yeah. Okay. So people can have conversations offline, so we can come back better prepared and have these conversations. I would encourage everyone to talk to proponents- Yep ... and everyone else. Do I have the right numbers? Okay, so we're moving on. Yeah, we are. Okay. We are to an overnight. If you guys could just keep it down out there a little bit. Jason, if you guys could just keep it down a little bit. Jason? If I could have a motion to implement an overnight parking ban to facilitate street sweeping of areas in Downtown, Old Town, and Shipyard districts as submitted for the following days and times and to ensure proper notification of residents and visitors via temporary no parking signs, targeted flyering, website updates, and Marblehead Police and Town Facebook page. Monday, April 20th, 12:01 AM to 7:00 AM. Tuesday, April 21st, 2026, same time. Wednesday, April 22nd, same time, 12:01 to 7:00. Thursday, April 23rd, same time. Friday, April 20... We have a problem here. We went from April 23rd of Thursday to Friday, April 22nd. I assume that should be the

24th. Someone just look at the calendar for me. Thank you. Yeah, 21, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24. 24th is Friday? Yeah. Okay. And Friday, April 24th, 12:01 AM to 7:00 AM. Move for 7:00. Yep. Do I have a second? Second. I just want to-- This is April vacation week, right? Yeah. Okay. This is just through the chairman asking- Yeah ... a question. Just curious because, it's April vacation week for this. Do you collaborate with the schools in getting the notice out? I'm just thinking you're doing street sweeping and people are parking, but if they have time to move, a lot of people will leave for the entire week type of thing and leave their car out. So, I just didn't know how far in advance, other than obviously the meeting, but there's seven of us here, and everybody who's opening it. Sure. If you want to pick a different week, you absolutely can, so we can have more time to put it out. This is a fallout from overnight parking not happening, right? Yeah. And we got rid of the- Yeah, I'm just concerned that- Go ahead ... and maybe there's not that many vehicles,

but I just am thinking- No ... that if we want this to be as successful as possible, then unfortunately if people are like, "Oh," they leave their car, there's no parking ban anymore, right? And they're gone, then you have more people who would probably willingly move their car and participate, but they literally just aren't in Marblehead that week. And it's just a timing with, we have to go to the select board, so we only have every two weeks to be able to do it. Right. Yeah. We just got both our street sweepers back, so we're ready to go out. Right. But we have to now wait to get approval. So- So would you- We can absolutely change the times. Does it matter if you push it out two weeks? I'm just thinking again, with that notice, if everyone's gone for April vacation, right before, does there- No. Does there sort of just because- So you- ... this is when we could come, and this is when we do it. Yeah, I was thinking, but then people will actually be in town. We do need it to get it done before Mother's Day. Which is? Because

that's Piper and Fluffy starts, and then all that stuff will flock into the storm. Yeah. Makes sense. It does have to be done. Well, let's do it, if you're okay doing it May 4th through May 8th? Which is the- Oh, Tommy. Oh, no way. Yeah, that's it. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Let's just put it off one extra rough a week. Sure. Go for it. I mean, the other issue is the boat, because of the way the off-street parking is, it can only be from midnight to 7:00. Right. That again, just sticks us with- Next week ... we have to go by how all that works. I'm open to whatever everybody else- Is the 27th through the 1st possible? Um- As far as like you scheduling, or is it all? I don't think so. That's just pushing it out one week, but then if anyone- Yeah. No, I don't have... We weren't set on those days, it's just- Okay ... those are the days- And then that's before- ... we could get on the agenda. This is the day we had the equipment. Yeah. Clean streets for public. I mean, for time. But it does have to

be done by May 8th. That's the only- Okay. Well, let's do the 27th through May 1st. So if I could have a motion to amend the prior motion to change the dates from Monday, April 27th, running through Friday, May 1st, Monday through Friday from 12:01 AM to 7:00 AM on all five days. So moved. Second. Okay. All in favor? Good call. Yeah. Good work. All right, 10, licensing. If I could have a motion to renew the following all day alcohol seasonal club licenses subject to all taxes and fees to the town being paid, receipt of all applicable departmental approvals, board approvals, in compliance with Chapter 304 of the Act of 2004. Eastern Yacht Club, pool license, 42-44 Foster Street, Manager Jared Shawnee. That's my motion. So moved. Is there a second? Second. So we pull vote. Mr. Zisson? In favor. Ms. Noonan? Here. Ms. Singer? In favor. Mr. Gray? In favor. Mr. Bos? In favor. We also have licensing local Sunday entertainment license, Dolphin Yacht Club. Motion to renew the following local Sunday entertainment license, subject to all taxes and fees to the town being paid and approved from the Commonwealth Department of Public Safety

for Sunday entertainment. The Dolphin Yacht Club, and I don't have an address. Well, up here it says local Sunday entertainment, Dolphin Yacht Club, and below I have- It says below. Which one are we doing? Which one are we doing? Yeah. Okay, so this up top, it says Dolphin, so it's the carryover. Yeah. So for the Eastern Yacht Club pool license, 42-44 Foster Street. I'll move Second. All in favor? Yep. We all vote. All in favor? Nope, that's not people versus. All in favor? Yeah. All right, we're 10 late. Consent agenda. Motion to approve the following consent agenda items subject to these rules, regs, fees, and receipts require a certificate of insurance required. Aben Hall at Marblehead School of Music, June 13th through 14th, 26. Aben Hall, National Prayer Day, May 7th, 2026, to ring the bells at Aben Hall at 12 noon for five minutes and meet in the Slack board room for 10 minutes after to pray and meditate as a unified group for continued well-being for all. Aben Hall, Marble Charter School, April 8th, 2026, student mock public meeting. Aben Hall, Marblehead Harbor Rotary Pops Concert, December 12th, 2026. Proclaim May 7th, 2026,

Marblehead Counseling Second Annual Community Champion Celebration. So moved. Second. All in favor. We have a change order of a contract. This is design and permanent bridge replacement, Village Street. It looks like we are just extending this. It's just an extension. $55,000. Extending and putting 55? Yeah. Okay. Additional $55,000. So an additional 55. Testing. Okay. And this is still Chapter 90 money? Chapter, yep. Okay. Any questions about this from... If I could have motion to approve change order number three for contract 2023-003 between the town and Freeman Peterson, Inc. in the amount of 55,000 to extend the contract term through December 31, 2026, authorize the chair to execute the change order on behalf of the board. So moved. Second. All in favor. And we have a one-day liquor license for Coastline Marine. We have actually a couple it looks like. Coastline Marine and Steven Decor. If I could have a motion to approve the request for the following one-day liquor licenses from Coastline Marine, 8 Sewall Street, May 2nd, 2026, 12 noon to 4:00 PM. Steven Decor, 4 Quick Street, April 25th, 2026 from 1:00 PM to 4:00 PM, subject to the following conditions. Delivery of

and receipt by the licensing authority of the acquired fee of $50 each. Delivery of and receipt by licensing authority of proof that the alcohol will be purchased from an authorized source. Proof that the applicant can receive proper delivery, provide proper storage and disposal of all alcoholic beverages. Purchase all in accordance with requirements of GLD C-138. Liquor liability for any event on town-owned property. Alcohol should not remain on town-opened premises overnight. Alcohol will be purchased from Harp &amp; Brewery, Mayor America Valley Distributors, and to be determined. Can I have a motion? So moved. Second. Bolt. Ms. Moon? In favor. Ms. Singh? In favor. Mr. Gray? In favor. Mr. Zisson? In favor. Mr. Palmes? In favor. We have a letter of interest, which is great. This is from, I believe Sidman, who's a junior at Marblehead High School, to express his interest in serving on the student rep for Marblehead Task Force on Discrimination. I would recommend that we set a time to bring him in. Sure. Should we do April 22nd? Everyone sound good about that? Yeah. Absolutely. Yes, it is. I would recommend that we don't do it April 22nd. Yeah. Yeah, we're really good.

I'm going to follow Tammy's here. I'm just on. Nothing, I just picked something else for the school vacation week. Why don't we do the May 13th? Thought that I just was going to interview a kid on school vacation week. She's not going to do that. Because his parents are leaving the cars in the street that week. Yeah. So we're not going to do that. We'll do May 13th, if that's all right with everyone. All right, great. Any select board announcements? It's late, but can I just make two quick ones? Please. Okay. The JJ superhero- Yeah ... everyone saw was wonderful. Great. A lot of people were pointing at Make-A-Wish Foundation, local Boston media. Sergeant Morley, in my opinion, had as much, if not more fun, than JJ. He did a great job. And I did want to mention, I met JJ's grandfather, Steve Bubba Weinstein, who was vice chair of the Fin Con back in the day. I'm calling it. And I asked him if he thought he might want to rejoin the Fin Con. He dodge that quite a bit. But, he was a classmate of Kyle's, right? Yeah. And the other thing, I

just want to recognize a few of us were at the Reynolds Field presentation. Mm-hmm. And I have to say, I have never seen a singular board member in my life take so much ownership of a project like Shelley did. She did a great job. I mean- Yeah ... like a whirlwind. But anyhow, that's fine. Yeah, thank you. That was a great presentation, and she's done great work, the numbers. Dan's got a much better- I'll talk about there. Dan's got a much better presentation. Much better. I've taken lessons from her. I have one announcement to make. I would just like to announce that I do support the police enforcing the laws- Oh. You're back on ... of Massachusetts, as well as our regulations, including the social posting law, that my focus right now is making sure that we do get money to support them, but that I do support the police enforcing all laws of Massachusetts and anything else that we have. Can I move for adjournment? So moved. Second. All right. All in favor. Thank you. Okie dokie