Appreciate that, Bud. April 22nd, 2026 to order, and ask for a motion to appoint a chair pro tem. So moved. So moved. And I nominate Alexa Singer. Okay. Second. Betten. All right. All those in favor? We need a poll vote? I don't know. Yeah, you got to do a poll vote. All right, Mrs. Zisson in favor. Mr. Grade in favor. Mr. Fox? In favor. Ms. Singer? In favor. We have to do everything by poll vote tonight. Okay. Call meeting to order. And this meeting is being recorded, and I will have Dan Fox participating remotely. Our first order on the agenda is public comment. So if you have public comment, if you can come up to the microphone stand so we can hear you and pick you up on the microphone. I don't see anyone online, Madam Chair. Okay. All right. Next order of business is town administrator update, number two. Thank you, Madam Chair. So just two quick items. One, we've done a lot of work on our Marblehead Rail Trails. Marblehead Rail Trail has been selected as one of 10 new "signature trails" for the Commonwealth's 2026 Mass Trails 10 campaign. So what this does is, it gives the designation as a Mass Trails 10 initiative. It's led by Department of Conservation and Recreation, or DCR, partnership with MassDOT and the Mass Office of Travel and Tourism. There's some other agencies. And it's actually a high-visibility campaign designed to promote Massachusetts Trail Network statewide. So they select 10 trails to be part of their advertising campaign to encourage utilization and bring attention to. So Marbleheads Rail Trail is one of the 10 being designated, so that will be part of their advertising campaigns. What it also does, by this designation, makes us look good in our future grant applications for projects. As we move forward, we can- Great ... put this on our accomplishments list as part of the trail system. And again, this is the work done through our Community Development Planning Department, but we also have Public Works, the Municipal Light, Utility, Water, Sewer. We have a lot of partners here locally at Marblehead dealing with the rail trails and utilizing them for the community. So all good news. And then the second item, we received the Fiscal 26 Firefighter Safety Equipment Grant award. So it'll be a grant of $17,230 through this grant program. What this does, it helps us to purchase safety equipment for the firefighters and such that we would otherwise have to use our own funds. So it stretches our dollar by doing that. So again, this is work through fire department folks in applying for and achieving these grants, saving us money. Great. Awesome. I will mention, so we are planning a forum for next Monday night, 6:00, at the Community Center. I have to push out- Okay ... some literature or advertising to get it known. So I talked about it today. The town moderator and I did a presentation at the COA, covering all the warrant articles, which was well-attended. Lots of good questions, lots of good dialogue announced there. So our intent is to have basically a budget or town meeting Q&amp;A for the public that want to ask questions about items that are coming up. So I'll be there. Alicia will be there. A representative from the schools to be determined, and maybe one or two other highly informed people will join us to answer questions for the public. Great. All town meeting questions or budget or... Yeah, it's an opportunity for folks before town meeting- Yeah ... to get information. As was the case today, the budget and the override questions were the biggies- Yeah ... that people had all the questions on. Great. Thatcher, I think it just might be worth noting too, that we will be holding some times together with the school committee on both April 29th, Wednesday from 3:00 to 4:00 PM at Dunkin' Donuts, and on April 30th, 9:00 AM to 11:00 AM at Dunkin' Donuts for people to come ask questions from school committee as well as Selectboard members. Yes. Okay. Yeah. And- Wait. I'm going to get that posted for yours and them. Yeah. So just so you know, we're going to post those events as Selectboard meetings just so that if a number of you show up and participate- Yeah ... in some form, it- Great ... come online. That'd be great. Where? It's Jacobi Center did you say? Yes. Monday night. Yeah. Yeah. So April, what day? The 27th. The 27th is the Monday night. Yeah. Right. And then Dan's listed the- 29th and 30th. Yeah. 3:00 to 4:00 at Dunkin' Donuts. On April 29th, and then the April 30th is 9:00 AM till 11:00 AM At? Dunham. So, the forum on Monday night, because we now know we have a FinCom warrant hearing and follow-up warrant hearing Monday night. So they're going to start at 7:30. So we'll try to hop to the forum between 6:00 and 7:30. To make-- Myself and Alicia, obviously- Yeah ... try to make it all- Slide out of there ... fit in. Okay. Great. Anything else on forum administrator updates? Nope. That's it. Move my- All right. So next item we have is our tax collector treasurer. And if you want to have a seat, come see us. We're always good to-- happy to see you. Good evening. Hi. Welcome. Thanks for hanging out. All right. So- Great ... I have a statement from the CFO that she had asked me to read for you guys tonight. Mm-hmm. Just giving some detail on this- Yeah ... since she did good work on this. Yeah. She says, "Good evening, honorable select board. On April 16th, Marblehead successfully went to market with a general obligation bond issue totaling $24,975,000, structured with maturities extending up to 30 years. The town received 10 competitive bids, reflecting strong investor confidence and a healthy market for municipal bonds. A standout result was the approximately $1.5 million in bond premium received at the sale. This premium fully covered the cost of issuance and allowed the town to reduce the amount it needed to borrow down from $26.2 million to $24.975 million, saving taxpayers money before the first payment's even made. So the bond carries a true interest cost of 3.752%, which is a strong outcome given the current economic conditions. With inflation running near 3.3% and the Federal Reserve's new long-term 30-year inflation expectations sitting at 2.47%, locking in a sub 4% rate places the town within 1.5 percentage points of projected long-term inflation. It's a meaningful savings to the tax rate over the life of these projects. The outstanding debt prior, as of June 30, 2026, $90.16 million. The Town of Marblehead's outstanding debt increases to approximately $115,133,575. The new $24,975,000 bond carries a total interest cost of $15,366,972 through the final maturity in 2056. The annual debt service on the new issue will average approximately $1.86 million per year through fiscal year 2041, reflecting the 15-year average life of most funded projects. Debt service drops materially after that as the shorter-lived projects retire, with only the high school roof and the HVAC and Mary Ellis HVAC and ADA improvements carrying obligations through 2056. The largest maturity, as $17 million, comes due in 2035, with the remaining balance spread across 2046, 2049, 2053, and 2056." And I think that was reflected in the update of what they pinned those term loans out for you, the term bonds. "So there are seven projects being funded with this bond, representing essential investments throughout the community, the infrastructure, public safety, education, accessibility, technology, and library services as follows. We have roads and sidewalks at $9,098,250. Then we have the high school roof and HVAC at $8,441,005 million. The Mary Ellis HVAC and ADA improvements sitting at $5,637,450. Abbott Public Library renovations at $941,050. And the Mary Ellis building roof replacement, $451,550. The Franklin Street Fire Station roof and gutter replacement, $123,450. And then IT and equipment and software, $281,750, for that total of $24,975,000." So that's... Any questions from the board? Actually, it's great news. Well, there's quite a good stack, I tell you. Yeah. Fortunate. So may I have a motion that the sale of the $24,975,000 general obligation municipal purpose loan of 2026 bonds of the town dated May 14, 2026 to Oppenheimer &amp; Company Incorporated at the price of $26,402,202 in accrued interest, if any, is hereby approved and confirmed. The bond shall be payable on May 1st of this year and the principal amounts and bear interest at the respective rates as follows." Do I need to read each one? No, it's in there. It's okay. I can. All right, perfect. Okay. Okay. So moved. Second. Second. And, Mr.? In favor. Mr. Foss? In favor. Ms. Simpson? In favor. Ms. Sandy? In favor. And then, anything else? Motion that the bonds maturing on May 1st, 2047, May 1st, 2051, and May 1st, 2056, each a term bond shall be subject to mandatory redemption or mature as follows. Should we read through those? Do any of these read for the record? Term bond date May 1st, 2004. Date 2045, 615,000. 2046, 645,000. 2047, 550,000. And then term bond due May 1st, 2051. 2048 for 575,000. 2049 for 600,000. 2050 for 625,000. And 2051 for 650,000. And for term bonds due May 1st, 2056, 2055, 7700 for 770,000. 2056, 800,000. So moved. Second. Mr. Fox? In favor. Mr. Zisson? In favor. Mr. Graner? In favor. Ms. Sankey? In favor. And then we have a motion that in connection with the marketing and sale of the bonds, the preparation and distribution of a notice of sale and preliminary official statement dated April 10th, 2026, and a final official statement dated April 16th, 2026. The official statement, each in such form as may be approved by the town treasurer, being hereby ratified, confirmed, approved, and adopted. I need a full vote. So moved. Second. Mr. Zisson? In favor. Mr. Graner? In favor. Mr. Fox? In favor. Ms. Sankey? In favor. I need a motion that the bond shall be subject to redemption at the option of the town upon such terms and conditions as are set forth in the official statement. So moved. Second. Mr. Graner? In favor. Mr. Fox? In favor. Zisson? In favor. Ms. Sankey? In favor. I need a motion that the town treasurer and the select board be and hereby are authorized to execute and deliver a continuing disclosure undertaking in compliance with the SEC Rule 15c2-12 in such form as may be approved by bond counsel to the town, which undertaking shall be incorporated by reference in the bonds for the benefit of the holders of the bonds from time to time. Need a full vote. So moved. Second. Mr. Graner? In favor. Mr. Fox? In favor. Mr. Zisson? In favor. Ms. Sankey? In favor. I need a motion that we authorize and direct the town treasurer to establish post-issuance federal tax compliance procedures and continuing disclosure procedures in such forms as the town treasurer and bond counsel deem sufficient. Or if such procedures are currently in place, to review and update said procedures in order to monitor and maintain the tax-exempt status of the bonds and to comply with relevant securities laws. Need a full vote. So moved. Second. Mr. Fox? In favor. Mr. Zisson? In favor. Mr. Graner? In favor. Ms. Sankey? In favor. I need a motion that each member of the select board, the town clerk, and the town treasurer be and hereby are authorized to take any and all such actions and execute and deliver such certificates, receipts, or other documents as may be determined by them or any of them to be necessary or convenient to carry into effect the provisions of the foregoing votes. So moved. Second. Mr. Zisson? In favor. Mr. Graner? In favor. Mr. Fox? In favor. And that concludes the votes. Okay, great. Tammy, thank you. Those are great results for those rates and the different maturities, so thank you. I know that's a lot of work. Appreciate it. The best. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Looking forward to those investments. Get funded. Okay. So next item on our agenda is the FY budget and override discussion update. Okay. So give me a sec. Yeah. Okay. So, one of the items that we're planning on covering tonight, and this is from some of the feedback that we have received from the public in asking for when we put the presentations out and looking at what are the things in the columns for when we're talking about what are the things we lose, what are the things if we invest, what does that mean? And just a little bit more information in regards to each of the columns. And so within the next week, we are working, Thatcher's been doing some work, and working with Thatcher to get some updated documentation out to the public that just tells more of a story, fleshes out a lot of the questions that are being asked. So tonight we are bringing forward one of the questions that has come forward is in regards to capital projects and talking about what are the municipal buildings in town and also what are the projects that we have accomplished and been working on in 2025, 2026 for the day-to-day operations. And then looking forward at what are the things that need to be done. And so I think it's important for everyone to know in regards to Marblehead, we have a beautiful historic town, and with that there are historic buildings that are... things that they're in our custody of care, and that adds to the amount of properties that we have to take care of. So I think tonight, just a quick review of all the 20 plus properties that Marblehead does maintain for their buildings. And I think that a lot of times people think about Abbot Hall or Mary Alley, and some of the municipal buildings and the school buildings, but there's a lot of other buildings that our building commissioner and our maintenance department and GPW, and everybody who's part of our bigger scale operation has to think about when we are allocating capital. So this is the town-owned buildings overview. So looking at what are our administration buildings, what's our public safety, what's our public works, community, historic, and then our garages and storage. So these are all of the town-owned buildings we have to take a look at. We have to see what are the needs and maintain. Just a quick review of Mary Alley Building. We talk about Mary Alley Building a lot in regards to our municipal offices and all of the resources that occur there. So building one. Abbot Hall, where you are tonight. So, this is obviously our iconic town hall and home of our town government, but also a historic building, so requires a lot of financial upkeep as well. Medical building. This is a property that the town owns, and it's utilized for the local medical offices right next to Woodger Road. And our police station, right across from Seaside Park. That's another one of our properties we have to maintain and take care of. Central Fire Station, so this is the fire station on Pleasant Street that you would pass entering town. And Franklin Street Fire Station, this is our second fire station. It's where engine number two is, also in the historical district, and adds additional fire coverage, especially into the tight homes in Old Town. Public works, our Department of Public Works, so there's several buildings that are in the area up on Tioga Way, that are a part of this facility where they house all of their equipment and all the other needs of the town. Salt shed, another part of that DPW complex. That's one of the buildings we have to care for. The Jacoby Community Center, this is where our Council on Aging, our Parks and Recs programs, so maintaining and caring for that building. Across from the high school, the Hobbs House, this was donated to the town in the 1930s, and we use it currently in regards to the Marblehead Counseling Center, provides counseling services. They're located there for services for the town, offering also sliding scale representation. So this is a very unique gift that the town of Marblehead has and also provides that service to their residents. Abbot Public Library. And the Old Powder House, this is one of our historic buildings that's in our care. Ilko Building, also one of the historic buildings in regards to the fire pumper station in there. The Old Town House, downtown, obviously a staple for Marblehead and one of the things that it's a building that we have to look at some of the big maintenance issues that are up for needs right now. Vine Street Garage, this is basically town-owned storage, garage, Department of Public Works. This is where they're going to utilize the facilities that they need. And this is just a list of all the work that's been completed in 2025, looking at Mary Alley, the Hobbs House, work that's done on the community center, Franklin Street Fire Station, as well as Central Street. So, it's just this quick summary of all of the projects that are just day-to-day operations of things that have to be done on each of these individual buildings. We have the Central Fire Station, Pickett House, Old Town Hall, Abbot Hall, Department of Public Works. And so I think it's important for the citizens of Marblehead to know what each of these buildings are, and how these resources are being utilized to care for a large number of properties around town. That it's a significant number of buildings that we have to find the resources to care for. And just a reminder, we had 28 projects completed in 2025 and '26. It's a significant achievement based especially on a limited amount of resources with a lot of people just trying to work together to get things done with very limited resources. So I also want to give a shout-out to all of our employees that try to make things happen any way they can. And, with over 20 buildings to own, there's a lot of needs that we have to work to try to figure out how we're going to make that happen. And so one of the things that we're bringing forward and discussing tonight is just letting you know what are all the buildings we have to maintain, where some of these investments are going. And in the next piece there in your packet, it shows what are the buildings and what are the things that we're looking forMoving forward and some of the projects that are slated. Because one of the questions that we have received is, in some of the override scenarios, where is that money going? Where are those projects going? And the next step is... If I'm not, actually, can you pass me one? I think I gave mine away. Yeah. Thanks. So, yeah. So the upcoming projects that we're looking at, just to give some examples, because I think it helps to know is, for example, looking at the fire line system at Abbott Hall. The old townhouse, the yellow building that you saw in the pictures, it needs an elevator. It needs a fire escape. The central fire station is desperately in need of looking at a new heating system. So this is a small example of some of the concrete projects that some of these buildings that we care for and love need desperately to be able to bring them to the level they need to be. And then the next thing is part of getting the resources that we need is the dedicated maintenance technician, having someone brought on staff that is here that's trained to help with making sure that we are doing all the preventative maintenance that we want to be doing on these buildings and all the day-to-day operations. So there is obviously the big, large capital projects that we fund, and that's important, but also just as important is taking care of these buildings on a day-to-day basis. Whether it's just changing filters or doing all of the painting and side work and siding and all the things that we need to eventually, hopefully, allow us to be in a position where we are tracking our capital, and we are investing in our property and making sure that, hopefully, in a preventative way, too, that we're saving the town money. So just wanted to bring that to the board, and I think that it's important to really highlight how many properties that we own and manage. Questions, comments? Alexa, I think this is a great overview. We do have many more assets than we're accustomed to thinking about, haven't we? Yes. Now, what is the funding mechanism here? I can see this being, it sounds like it's involved in the Tier 3 proposal. Yeah. I think that's a great- And that's where it appears. I could also see this being a great standalone. So I think, yeah. So I think that's a great question. So through working with the building commission department specifically, the Tier 2 would allow the maintenance technician to come on board, and that was part of that Tier 2 was to, and to have a- A dedicated person. Yeah. So dedicated person. Yep. And then the second piece of that was some of that money was allocated to the rail trail, and then the rest of that funding, and correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe the number was 450,000 that was allocated for that. Yes. So then the rest of that funding would be the remaining, depending on what your salary line is, let's say 200,000 to 300,000 would be allocated to start some of these projects that we just listed. So these are our highest priority items that have been highlighted from the buildings department is the fire alarm system, the elevator, fire escape. So that Tier 2, we would try to stretch and go as far as we could on those projects. The Tier 3 would allow us to then do more of these projects. Obviously, even if you were allocated Tier 3 funding with 22 buildings, $1 million might, when you look and you say, "Okay, this is $1 million for this type of capital work." But when you have 22 buildings, 21 buildings, that level of projects gets- Yes ... dissipated. But I think the difference between Tier 2 and Tier 3, Tier 2 would bring on that person who is dedicated, that this is their position, and then it would also give some of the capital that we need to work on these projects. Yeah. Well, we have a buildings maintenance article in the warrant, and I guess that is another area where that could be addressed. Which we're not funding in the- Right ... proposed budget because it wasn't the dollars to do that. So we're- Understood ... relying on the override to fund- That piece of it? That piece. Okay. My assumption was that the article actually made its way into an operating override. It just had to be renewed then. Yeah. So we carry a warrant article for, it's called the small cap. Yeah. That's one. Yeah. You have your rolling stock, your vehicles. No, that's okay. Yeah. I'm just thinking out loud. It's fine as long as we leave that in place. Yep. But I think another alternative might be to bump that up if we can justify it. But perhaps the staffing needs to be included in the override. So it's fine either way. I just raised the question. Yeah. Alexa, thank you for that, and I know, Jim, you put some time aside, and thank you to Steve Cummings. I think it highlights our deferred maintenance, and honestly, I didn't even know some of those buildings. So I'm always happy to admit when I don't know something here. But it's very clear that we do need a general buildings department and something for maintenance, as Moses was getting at, that we are not funding this this year, nor are we funding reserves. So it's very clear that this in Tier 2 and Tier 3 are something that we really need to keep our buildings going and to prevent us from having to do bigger... you know, capital projects in the future. Right. Yeah. And I think it's, obviously if we look at some of these that are safety related too, we're talking about things such as fire systems and things of that nature. But yeah, these are-- And I highlight them when we talk about trying to replace the elevator or replacing the fire escape or these types of things. These are very important, you know, heating systems. These are really honestly necessary projects that are part of these buildings. So hopefully that presentation helps to highlight, one, how many things we have to consider, but two, where the resources are going are to these essential parts of these buildings that have to be taken care of. So yeah. So I hope that within the next week, through the community forums, we'll have just additional information for the public on each of our individual departments and speaking to all of the sections in each of the tiers over, you know, there has been some questions in regards to whether it's finance department, whether it's Council on Aging, whatever the department is really, or Division of Public Works, for example. What does a heavy equipment operator, for example, what does that bring to the Department of Works? How does that impact the operation of the system? Or if someone, we're talking about the Council on Aging and nutritionists, or we're talking about the police department, and we can bring the SRO back versus fire department. What does the additional four firefighters do for the town of Marblehead? So we've heard your questions, and we're working really hard to bring you specific answers to those questions, so it's really clear in what you're going to receive in those services. Or, on the flip side, if the override doesn't pass, what's the implication of those things? So hopefully, that will help answer some of the questions that have been brought to board. And I just want to add, Alexa did a wonderful job, and this is just the town buildings. Schools have their own set. And something Alexa and I talked about, there's some smaller buildings that, restaurants, for instance, that we didn't want to go down that path. Yeah. But there's more stuff than that. And then, I'm not quite sure who owns the Necron building at Devor, but there's other structures around- Yes ... the pavilion, and so this is like the big hitters, but the list just goes on and on. Yes. There's many responsibilities for- Yeah. The chapel at the Waterside Cemetery, the niches that stands at Seaside. Yeah. There's a lot of stuff. Yeah. So. Yes. Definitely. For a municipality of our size- Mm-hmm ... we have a tremendous amount of assets to manage. So, thank you for your time, and thank you for all the members of the public that have been bringing things forward, and we're working as hard as we can to try to answer your questions and bring you the resources that you've been asking for. Thank you, Alexa. So, yeah. Do you mind at the end? Okay. Thank you. Okay. Next item on our agenda, number five, collective bargaining. Can I ask a- Oh, sorry. Can I ask you- Yeah. Can I just add- Yeah ... one question on the override? Yeah. I know the language for the motions, the various articles that are being worked on. When do we anticipate seeing those, Tom? Most of them are-- I've got sort of the latest verbiage. Most are complete. There's just a couple of them that have to be worked out, obviously like the override question itself. Yeah. So, the motions are mostly done, except for a couple of the more technical ones, I think. Yeah, I've been just getting a lot of questions, how that's going to work and- Yep ... there's a lot of interest in it. How is the waste collection going to be parsed out? Just there's a million questions, so the sooner we see those, the better, I guess. Yeah. It's obviously 80s. And actually, the town folk, the sooner the better, because it's good to start, get notes. Yeah. Because I think if we ask 10 people, we'd probably get 10 different answers on what the motion's going to look like. Yeah. We want to get loading the laptop that's going to manage the voting at the town meeting too. Yeah. I'm sure Mr. Attridge wants to get them too, so. Yeah. Great, thank you. Yeah. So, we have the next item is the collective bargaining memorandum. Do you want to speak to that? Yeah, so, this vote tonight is to ratify the action in public that the select board met in an executive session. So, as you know, we negotiated a new collective bargaining agreement with the International Association of Firefighters. It's a three-year contract. The basic information, it's 3% COLA, 3% COLA, and 3.5% COLA for the next three years, which puts it at par with what we've been agreeing to in the other collective bargaining agreements. There are a few other provisions in here, in addition that he went through in theIn the executive session. So we tweaked, for example, the good service award amounts by a small amount. Basically, after a number of years of service, we tweaked education levels a small amount. So we currently would award for associate, bachelor, and master's degree, so we bumped up those numbers slightly. But we also recognize certified trade positions to be equivalent with either an associate's, bachelor's, or master's. So an apprentice journeyman or master would be associated and be eligible for the education benefit. We found that valuable. So those are the main adjustments. We're doing a sick bank, creating a sick bank that would be jointly managed between the union and management. So if there's a need for a firefighter on extended leave has used up all of their paid time off, we have a mechanism in order to jointly award additional sick days. Okay. Yeah. Through the chair, this will be one year out of sync with the police and MMEU? Yeah. The contracts in Marblehead have not really been synced up. So we did do, with the firefighters last year, a one-year extension because- Yeah ... we didn't get to agreement on a number of items, so we did the one-year COLA, and so this is now a new three-year agreement. So MMEU, I think we start next year negotiating, and police, that ended up covering four years, if I remember correctly. Okay. Because we did one year in arrears and then three years forward. Okay. So yeah, they're not in sync. Yeah, I don't know if there's any value in that or not either. I don't know. Elsewhere, I've synchronized because it makes for a lot of workload during that period of time. But if you're trying to implement changes, certain employment changes, you want to apply it across the board- Yeah ... it's easier to be negotiating them all at the same time than to try to implement a change in one and then wait to implement it in another. Understood. There are pluses and minuses. And it seems you might have a consistent COLA maybe, across rather- Yeah. Anyhow, okay. It is what it is. Yeah. Thank you. Okay. So I need a motion to approve the memorandum of agreement between the Town of Marblehead and the International Association of Fire Fighters, AFL-CIO, AFL-CIO Local 2043 for the period of July 1st, 2026 to June 30th, 2029, as presented and prepared by Town Council, and approve the following salary increases subject to town meeting approval effective July 1st, 2026, 3% COLA; effective July 1st 2027, 3% COLA; effective July 1st 2028, 3.5% COLA. This needs to be a full vote. So moved. Second. Mr. Gray? In favor. Mr. Fox? In favor. Zisson, in favor. Ms. Singer? In favor. So the next order of business is the NEMLEC Memorandum of Understanding update. So NEMLEC, which stands for Northeastern Massachusetts Law Enforcement Council, is a coalition of police departments in order to jointly respond to, I will say, significant events in specialized situations. So, member police departments of the communities that make up this membership will have individual officers in departments who are specially trained, organized, and available if any of the membership communities that have a situation in which to deploy. So be it a terrorist event, natural disasters, search and rescue operations, anything that's requiring exceptional police action response. So it's pooling the resources of multiple communities for responses drawn from other member communities. So this is a renewal of agreement with some updates to the language of the previous agreements. We've been participating in this for quite some time. Great. Any questions? Yeah. One quick question. How does the chain of command work when these different police forces come with that? I'm just curious. So- I think it's-- Yeah. So I can start, and the chief can correct me. No, I'm just curious, that's all. So through NEMLEC, they have an off-- I forget the terminology, an overall leader of it. But they have leaders of each specialty area- Yeah ... who are, I think they're captains, right? They refer to them as specialty cap-- Come in, chief. Bail me out. Anyway, so yeah. They specialize- Specialty chiefs ... their teams that specialize in the different areas. When the need comes, the community will request the services. So, yeah. That captain will sign off, that specialty area captain. Like- Right ... "Yep, we're here." And they will- So whoever requests, I guess. Yeah. Is that true? Ultimately, we're at the top of the chain of command. So the- They're the requestor ... the operation chiefs will make the tactical decisions after consultation with me. Got it. Thank you. Yeah. The local community's in chargeBut they have a team leader that deploys, that works with the- Got you. How's that? Thank you. Mm-hmm. Just a curiosity question. Yeah. Thank you, Chief. All right. Motion to approve the Interagency Mutual Aid Assistance program with the Northeastern Massachusetts Enforcement Council, NEMLEC for them lock, as presented and prepared by town council, and authorize the chair to sign on behalf of the board. Roll vote. So moved. Second. Mr. Fox? In favor. Mr. Zisson? In favor. Mr. Grady? In favor. Ms. Singh? In favor. Next order of business, the consent agenda items in your packet. Let me take a look, see if you have any questions. And if not, I have a motion to approve the following consent agenda items subject to the usual rights... I'm sorry, the usual rules, regulations, fees, and receipt of the required certificate of insurance as required. The minutes for March 11th, 2026, March 28th, 2026. Marblehead Rotary 5K, November 1st, 2026 at 11:00 a.m. The race will start and finish at Crocker Park, subject to approval from police and fire, police details, and the required certificate of liability. No permanent markings are allowed on the public way, and all temporary markings must be removed at the end of the race. Declare the following items as surplus and no longer needed for municipal purpose, so that it may be disposed of in accordance with the town's policy on surplus equipment. The Recreation and Parks Department, a John Deere Gator. Roll vote. So moved. Second. Mr. Zisson? In favor. Mr. Grady? In favor. Mr. Fox? In favor. Ms. Singh? In favor. Next order of business, the National Opioid Settlement vote to authorize Thatcher. Yeah. This is another new agreement, opioid settlement. This is being managed nationally, and it has to do with the outfall of the opioid epidemic, in which it's been determined there's harm at the local level. And so, as these companies settle agreements with the attorneys representing all of us, municipalities and states, settle agreements, which ultimately ends up in proceeds coming to the community, to be used for dealing with the impact of the opioid epidemic. So this is a new one. It's referred to as the Remnant Defendants Settlement, but it's a cleanup of some remaining businesses or companies that are being subject to the settlement. And so, it's not a very large one. It's going to be a one-time payment. We don't know what the exact amount will be, but it's I think like a 94 million nationwide. So it's going to be a nominal benefit. But, the request is for the vote to allow me to sign off as being a participant in the settlement. And then there'll be a one-time payment, the amount to be determined ultimately, that'll come in. It'll go into our opioid fund, and this settlement has the same restrictions as the previous settlements, that there are certain categories of uses that we can use the funds for. So mental health services, addiction services, education about addictions and such. So there's certain categories. So these funds will be rolled into that same fund. Great. Any questions from the board? No. Okay. A motion that the select board authorize the town administrator to execute all documents and take all actions necessary on behalf of the town of Marblehead to participate in the national opioid settlement with the remnant defendants, consistent with terms presented. Roll vote. So moved. Second. Mr. Zisson? In favor. Mr. Grady? In favor. Mr. Fox? In favor. Singh? In favor. Our next order of business, the cultural council. We have a letter of resignation from Mark Phillip. He has served on the cultural council and is in need of stepping away, and he's put in a beautiful letter and thanking us for the opportunity to serve. So we acknowledge that we've received that and sent a little thank you for his service. And we also should open up, there are several spots on that, so open up a date. Yeah, for additional applications. Lou, do you have any set that you know? You just appointed someone at the last meeting. That's one of those kind of large committees. Okay. It's always on the website. We can post it and give it a little bit of time. Yeah. Okay, perfect. Sounds great. Okay, so, our next order of business is select board announcements. What do you have, gentlemen? All set, thank you. All set. All set. It's all quiet on the town. Well, I would just reiterate what we said earlier in regards to the forum, to the other opportunities that we have coming up. We encourage the public to please join us as much as possible. And we also are working on the additional information to bring to those forums to make sure we highlight all of our departments and what the override means to them, and what are the things that your financial resources will be doing for each department specifically. And working with the schools to get you the information for the questions that you've asked as well. So thank you for everyone who's participated and has reached out via email or coming to public meetings, and we are doing our best to reach out to you and get you what you're looking for. So thank you, and thank you for our town staff for taking the time to host the community forums and spend their time speaking to the citizens and hopefully bringing you the answers that you need. Nothing's ever perfect, but we're doing the best we can to bring you what you need. So thank you. Okay. Great. Meeting adjourned. So moved. So moved. Oh, I need a vote. Yeah, you need a second. Just kidding. Mr. Zisson? In favor. Mr. Grady? In favor. Mr. Fox? In favor. In favor. Now we can do it. Meeting adjourned. All right.
