                MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                         Tuesday, October 27, 2015
                    80 Commercial Street, Marblehead, MA

                                       Minutes


Present for the meeting were: Chairman Hull, Commissioners Homan, Kowalik and
Maccario, General Manager Hadden, Manager of Finance Dugan and Financial Assistant
Barrett.

           1) Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 P.M. and proceeded with
              agenda item one – Approve minutes of the September 29, 2015 meeting.

           It was moved by Commissioner Kowalik, second by Commissioner Homan
           and unanimously.

              Vote #2015-48
              Voted: To approve the minutes of the September 29, 2015 Commission
                     Meeting as presented.

           2) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item two – Financial Reports.

              a) Manager of Finance Dugan distributed to and discussed with the
                 Commission the departments July 2015 Operating Statement and the
                 August 2015 Accrued Operating Statement.

              b) The Purchased Power Adjustment for September 2015 remains at .16
                 cents per Kwh for all customers.

              c) Manager of Finance Dugan informed the Commission that we have
                 received a draft of our 2014 annual audit which will be finished up
                 next week and we will start work on the 2015 audit the end of
                 November.




      3)      Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item three – Managers Report.
Marblehead Municipal Light Commission
October 27, 2015
Page 2 of 3




             a) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that there is not
                much going on with the Building Renovations at the moment as we
                haven’t heard from Dana Weeder since the building survey was done
                two weeks ago. We also didn’t get any bids on removing the roof to
                get the diesel out of the building.

             b) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that the Wilkins
                situation is moving along as the emissions and noise factors are the
                biggest issues. The paperwork is back and needs to be put together
                and we need to get a performance bid out in the near future.

             c) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that he has to find
                out who is responsible for putting in a bench at the park for the
                Macomber family. He is going to call and ask the Park and Rec
                Department.

             d) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that MMWEC is
                just waiting on a figure from us for the Building Renovations Project
                to prepare a financing proposal and get us in line for financing for the
                current year. Manager of Finance Dugan and Financial Assistant
                Barrett will look further into it.

             e) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that he is looking
                into other possible office locations for us to move into while the
                building renovations are going on; one of which is up at Tioga Way.

             f) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that there was an
                outage on the Maple Circuit over the weekend.

             g) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that the new
                regulators on the Neck have been in service for two weeks now.

             Commissioner Tumulty discussed with the Commission that when Bill
             Snow went from Interim General Manager to Assistant General Manager
             his salary never got adjusted to the proper amount which it should be
             effective November 1st. The Commission reaffirmed their vote of the
             January 29, 2015 Commission Meeting.


             General Manager Hadden discussed with the Commission that he
             recommends we return to normal office hours and revisit the Friday office
             hours in the spring.
Marblehead Municipal Light Commission
October 27, 2015
Page 3 of 3



             Chairman Hull informed the Commission that the Town wants us to take
             over the maintenance of the traffic lights in town in the future.

      4) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item four – Underground Services for
         Rolleston Road.

         There was a discussion concerning another group of neighbors on Rolleston
         Road who want their services underground. The project should be their
         responsibility and their cost not ours. We can give them guidance only.

      5) Chairman Hull requested a motion to adjourn.

         It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner Maccario
         and unanimously.

             Vote #2015-49
             Voted: To adjourn this meeting at 6:50 P.M.
