               MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                         Tuesday, July 28, 2015
                   80 Commercial Street, Marblehead, MA

                                        Minutes


Present for the meeting were: Chairman Hull, Commissioners Kowalik, Maccario and
Tumulty, General Manager Hadden, Manager of Finance Dugan and Financial Assistant
Barrett.

      1) Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:10 P.M.

          Dana Weeder of Winter Street Architects discussed with the Board the options
          for taking the roof off over the diesel generator to remove it from the building.
          He needs to research the options a little more and get back to us.

          Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item one – Approve minutes of the
          June 30, 2015 meeting.

          It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner Maccario
          and unanimously.

             Vote #2015-36
             Voted: To approve the minutes of the June 30, 2015 Commission Meeting
                    as presented.

      2) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item two – Approve minutes of the
         July 14, 2015 meeting.

          It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner Maccario
          and unanimously.

             Vote #2015-37
             Voted: To approve the minutes of the July 14, 2015 Commission Meeting
                    as presented.



      3) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item three – Financial Reports.
Marblehead Municipal Light Commission
July 28, 2015
Page 2 of 2




             a) Manager of Finance Dugan distributed and discussed with the
                Commission the departments May 2015 Operating Statement and the
                June 2015 Accrued Operating Statement.

             b) The Purchased Power Adjustment for July 2015 remains at .16 cents
                per Kwh for all customers.

      4) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item four – Manager’s Report.

             a) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that MMWEC
                will prepare a financing proposal for the building renovations project,
                they just need a figure on the project from us.

             b) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that we had about
                six transformer issues during the heat last Monday.

             c) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that we are in the
                process of purchasing a new Delta Truck from Kiley Company for
                $210,000 which will be delivered in about two weeks and would like
                the Commission’s approval.

         It was moved by Chairman Hull, second by Commissioner Maccario and
         unanimously.

             Vote #2015-38
             Voted: To approve the purchase of a new Delta Truck

             d) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that the ROWs
                will be getting trimmed over the next couple weeks.

      5) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item five – Motion to go to Executive
         Session to discuss personnel issues. Not to return to Open Session.

         Chairman Hull took a poll vote of the Commission to go to Executive Session
         to discuss personnel issues. Not to return to Open Session. Commissioner
         Tumulty – yes; Commissioner Maccario – yes; Commissioner Kowalik – yes;
         Chairman Hull – yes.

             Vote #2015-39
             Voted: Motion to go to Executive Session at 5:38 P.M. to discuss
                    personnel issues. Not to return to Open Session.
