               MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                        Thursday, January 29, 2015
                   80 Commercial Street, Marblehead, MA

                                      Minutes


Present for the meeting were: Chairman Hull, Commissioners Homan, Kowalik and
Tumulty, General Manager Hadden, Manager of Finance Dugan and Business Assistant
Stone.

      1) Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:10 P.M. and proceeded with agenda
         item one – Approve minutes of the December 16, 2014 meeting.

          It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner Homan
          and unanimously.

             Vote #2015-1
             Voted: To approve the minutes of the December 16, 2014 Commission
                    Meeting as presented.

      2) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item two – Financial Reports.

             a) Manager of Finance Dugan distributed to and discussed with the
                Commission the departments November 2014 Operating Statement
                and the December 2014 Accrued Operating Statement.

             b) Manager of Finance Dugan informed the Commission that the
                Purchased Power Adjustment for January 2015 will be increased to .16
                cents per Kwh for all customers.

             c) Manager of Finance Dugan informed the Commission that our 2013
                annual audit is complete and we are getting ready for the 2014 annual
                audit.
Marblehead Municipal Light Commission
January 29, 2015
Page 2 of 4



             d) Manager of Finance Dugan informed the Commission that we are still
                working on the 5 Year Budget and Work Plan to present to the
                Commission soon.

         3) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item three – General Manager’s
            Report.

             a) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that the Neck
                Circuit Project is progressing along as the new hendrix is up and
                energized and cut over and the project is about seventy percent done.

             b) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that we had a
                noisy transformer problem on Seaview Avenue recently and it was
                changed out before Christmas.

             c) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that we had an
                accident on Churchill Road on Christmas night which knocked a
                transformer off the pole and had to be replaced.

             d) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that we recently
                had an outage on Leo Road as well.

             e) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission of a recent
                accident on Follett Street involving a padmount transformer spill in
                which Clean Harbors had to get involved which cost us over $30,000
                and will be submitted to insurance for reimbursement to the
                department.

             f) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that we were very
                fortunate during the recent blizzard to only experience two outages;
                one on Crowinshield Road and the other on Stonybrook Road.

             g) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission of a proposal
                from the girls in the business office to change the office hours to
                something similar to the rest of the town offices to get out early on
                Friday afternoons. The Commission tabled it for further discussion at
                a future meeting.

             h) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that he would like
                to buy more LED street lights and install them down Atlantic Avenue
                to Essex Street and back up Pleasant Street.

             i) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that he would like
                to get some prices on new regulators for the Neck Circuit Project and
                install them as well.
Marblehead Municipal Light Commission
January 29, 2015
Page 3 of 4




             j) The Commission had a discussion about the website vendor options
                and how we are going to redesign or update it going forward and how
                much control we want over the website maintaining it and being
                responsible for it. Commissioner Kowalik and Energy Services
                Adviser Snow will work together on it.

      4) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item four – Solar presentation with
         NRG Solar.

             Chairman Hull informed the Commission that the presentation had to be
             tabled to a future date due to an unforeseen emergency.

      5) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item five – Assistant General Manager
         vote.

         Upon completion of discussion it was moved by Commissioner Homan,
         second by Commissioner Tumulty and unanimously.

             Vote #2015-2
             Voted: Subject to approval by Town Council on the job description,
                    recommend to accept Bill Snow as Assistant General Manager.

         Upon completion of discussion it was moved by Commissioner Tumulty,
         second by Commissioner Homan and unanimously.

             Vote #2015-3
             Voted: A pay adjustment of $80.00 per week for the Assistant General
                    Manager position.

      The Commissioners had a discussion with two customers, one being Laurel Perry
      of 162 Jersey Street and the other being Anthony Martin of 159 Jersey Street
      regarding solar power and the use of solar panels on the roof as an electricity
      source for them and what they may have to do to enter into some sort of
      agreement with MMLD.

      The Commission needs to check with Energy Services Adviser Snow on the status
      of any type of agreement and revisit the fifty percent criteria that was discussed in
      regards to solar installations with customers and find some sort of balance here.
      This will be tabled to a future meeting.
      6) Chairman Hull requested a motion to adjourn.

         It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner Kowalik
         and unanimously.
Marblehead Municipal Light Commission
January 29, 2015
Page 4 of 4




             Vote #2015-4
             Voted: To adjourn this meeting at 6:32 P.M.
