               MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                        Thursday, February 26, 2015
                   80 Commercial Street, Marblehead, MA

                                       Minutes


Present for the meeting were: Chairman Hull, Commissioners Homan, Kowalik and
Tumulty, General Manager Hadden, Manager of Finance Dugan and Business Assistant
Stone.

      1) Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:03 P.M. and proceeded with agenda
         item one – Approve minutes of the January 29, 2015 and February 18, 2015
         meetings.

          It was moved by Commissioner Homan, second by Commissioner Tumulty
          and unanimously.

             Vote #2015-7
             Voted: To approve the minutes of the January 29, 2015 Commission
                    Meeting as presented.

          It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner Homan
          and unanimously.

             Vote #2015-8
             Voted: To approve the minutes of the February 18, 2015 Commission
                    Meeting as presented.

      2) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item two – Financial Reports.

             a) Manager of Finance Dugan informed the Commission that there are no
                financials this month as we are still closing the department’s books for
                2014 now and hopefully be up to date at the next meeting.
Marblehead Municipal Light Commission
February 26, 2015
Page 2 of 3



             b) Manager of Finance Dugan informed the Commission that the
                Purchased Power Adjustment for February 2015 remains at .16 cents
                per KWH for all customers.

             c) Manager of Finance Dugan informed the Commission that we have a
                new auditing firm on board and they are Goulet, Salvidio &
                Associates, P.C. We have a three year contract with them for
                $19,000.00 per year.

         3) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item three – Managers Report.

             a) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that we recently
                had an outage over the Neck caused by a phase which burnt out. We
                also had a couple other smaller outages during the month but nothing
                major.

             b) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that Tighe &
                Bond is still working on the Wilkins situation and trying to requalify
                the audio/sound levels at a cost of $12,000.00 and wants to give them
                the go ahead on it.

             c) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that Andy Petty
                from the Board of Health is coming in next Tuesday to talk to him as
                they have found some oil in the soil up at the Transfer Station site.

             d) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that the crews
                have been doing a lot of snow removal lately; especially over on
                Ocean Avenue so they can continue with the Neck Reconductor
                Project.

                Chairman Hull informed the Commission that he will table the girls’
                administration office hours’ proposal to the next meeting in executive
                session.

                Commissioner Tumulty informed the Commission that he spoke to
                John McGinn regarding the Towns website and that they are good with
                Civic Plus and aren’t expecting any major changes and are staying
                with them for the near future.

                Commissioner Kowalik and the Commission had a general discussion
                regarding the budget and work plan and the advantages of having one
                as a planning tool.
Marblehead Municipal Light Commission
February 26, 2015
Page 3 of 3



                Commissioner Tumulty made a recommendation that General
                Manager Hadden and Manager of Finance Dugan get together and
                review, modify and post Business Assistant Stone’s job posting for the
                Financial Assistant following the next meeting.

                General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that a Jewish
                Group wants to pay a pole attachment fee to us for our poles they are
                using. He will come up with some sort of negotiable flat fee.

         4) Chairman Hull requested a motion to adjourn.

             It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner
             Kowalik and unanimously.

                   Vote: #2015-9
                   Voted: To adjourn this meeting at 6:01 P.M.
