               MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                         Thursday, May 28, 2015
                   80 Commercial Street, Marblehead, MA

                                       Minutes


Present for the meeting were: Chairman Hull, Commissioners Kowalik, Tumulty and
Maccario, General Manager Hadden, Business Assistant Stone and Special Assistant
Jolly.

       1) Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:10 P.M. and proceeded with agenda
          item one – Approve minutes of the April 30, 2015, May 13, 2015 and May 21,
          2015 meetings.

          It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner Kowalik
          and unanimously.

              Vote #2015-23
              Voted: To approve the minutes of the April 30, 2015, May 13, 2015 and
                     May 21, 2015 Commission Meetings as presented.

       2) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item two – Presentation by Boston
          Solar.

          Boston Solar discussed with the Board their company and solar energy and its
          potential now and in the future as another energy source for the department.

       3) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item three – Managers Report.

              a) General Manager Hadden and Special Assistant Jolly informed the
                 Commission that the people from Ohio who are taking the Commercial
                 Street Diesel came in recently and would like to have it on their
                 premises by July 4th. We just have to work out the details to get it
                 removed such as insurance, liability, legal and engineering. It should
                 be gone by the end of June or beginning of July.

              b) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that he would like
                 to have them sign off on the agreement with the Jewish Group Greater
                 Boston ERUV Corp. for the use of our poles. There will be no pole
                 attachment fee.

              c) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that we had an
                 outage recently on the Neck caused by a transformer failure.
Marblehead Municipal Light Commission
May 28, 2015
Page 2 of 2

             d) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that the group of
                residents from the Neck still want their electric services put
                underground at their cost and have hired PLM Engineering to look into
                the cost of doing so.

             e) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that the crews
                have finished the Crowninshield Project and it is completed.

      4) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item four – Discuss policy regarding
         delinquent accounts.

         The Commission had a discussion on a policy for delinquent accounts.
         Business Assistant Stone distributed to the Commission a list from Collector
         Doggett showing the worst offenders that are property owners. There will be
         letters going out to them, giving 21days notice for payment in full or a lien
         will be put on the property.

         After considerable discussion it was moved by Commissioner Tumulty,
         second by Commissioner Kowalik and unanimously.

             Vote #2015-24
             Voted: To adopt Mass Laws Chapter 164, Section 58 A through E.

      5) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item five – Financial Reports.

             Special Assistant Jolly discussed and explained with the Commission the
             department’s monthly operating statement and power costs and answered
             their questions.

      6) Chairman Hull requested a motion to adjourn.

         It was moved by Commissioner Kowalik, second by Commissioner Maccario
         and unanimously.

             Vote #2015-25
             Voted: To adjourn this meeting at 7:15 P.M.
