               MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                        Wednesday, May 13, 2015
                   80 Commercial Street, Marblehead, MA

                                       Minutes


Present for the meeting were: Chairman Hull, Commissioners Homan, Kowalik and
Tumulty, General Manager Hadden and Business Assistant Stone.

      1) Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 P.M. and proceeded with agenda
         item one – Motion for vote on contract with Winter Street Architects.

             a) The Commission had a considerable discussion on the contract with
                Winter Street Architects on the Commercial Street building
                renovations and had some questions for Dana Weeder. The biggest
                question being how he bases his fee on the contract. Chairman Hull
                will contact him to come to a future meeting to discuss.

             b) The Commission also had a discussion regarding the financing of the
                Commercial Street building renovations. General Manager Hadden
                and Commissioner Kowalik have met separately with MMWEC
                regarding possible financing options and will contact them again to
                come in and do a presentation to the Board and or make a
                recommendation or help us with the financing.

                 There was no vote on the contract with Winter Street Architects and it
                 will be tabled to a future meeting after talking with Dana Weeder.

      2) Chairman Hull distributed a rough draft of the MMLD Handbook to General
         Manager Hadden and the other Commissioners for editing. The newly elected
         Commissioner Maccario will get a copy after his swearing in. The
         Commissioners will meet again next Thursday, May 21, 2015 at 4:00 P.M. to
         go over and hopefully finalize the handbook in executive session.

      3) General Manager Hadden and the Commission had a discussion and questions
         on overdue accounts, DPU regulations and rules and Mass Laws Chapter 164
         with further discussion to come at a future meeting.


      4) Chairman Hull requested a motion to adjourn.
Marblehead Municipal Light Commission
May 13, 2015
Page 2 of 2




      It was moved by Commissioner Homan, second by Commissioner Tumulty and
      unanimously.

             Vote #2015-19
             Voted: To adjourn this meeting at 5:15P.M.
