               MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                         Tuesday, June 30, 2015
                   80 Commercial Street, Marblehead, MA

                                       Minutes


Present for the meeting were: Chairman Hull, Commissioners Kowalik, Maccario and
Tumulty, General Manager Hadden, Special Assistant Jolly, Manager of Finance Dugan,
Financial Assistant Barrett and Business Assistant Stone.

       1) Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 P.M. and proceeded with agenda
          item one – Motion to vote on contract with Winter Street Architects.

          After considerable discussion it was moved by Commissioner Kowalik,
          second by Commissioner Tumulty and unanimously.

              Vote #2015-26
              Voted: To approve the contract with Winter Street Architects subject to
                     the conditions being satisfied.

       2) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item two – Discuss and vote on solar
          policy.

          After considerable discussion on a solar policy by the Commission, it was
          moved by Commissioner Kowalik, second by Commissioner Tumulty and
          unanimously.

              Vote #2015-27
              Voted: To allow 100% coverage on the primary dwelling pending
                     approvals from MMLD, Fire and Building Departments.




       3) Chairman Hull proceeded with approval of the minutes of the May 28, 2015
          meeting.
Marblehead Municipal Light Commission
June 30, 2015
Page 2 of 3




         It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner Maccario
         and unanimously.

             Vote #2015-28
             Voted: To approve the minutes of the May 28, 2015 Commission Meeting
                    as presented.

      4) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item three – Finance Reports.

             a) Manager of Finance Dugan distributed and discussed with the
                Commission the departments April 2015 Operating Statement and the
                May 2015 Accrued Operating Statement.

             b) The Purchased Power Adjustment for June 2015 remains at .16 cents
                per Kwh for all customers.

      5) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item four – Manager’s Report.

             a) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that we had an
                outage on June 13th caused by a transmission line not transferring over
                properly.

             b) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that we also had
                an outage this past Sunday on the Anderson Circuit.

             c) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that bids have
                gone out for a new bucket truck for the line department.

             d) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that a new
                Yankee for Distribution Manager Snow has been ordered as well.

             e) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that he will also
                be talking with Dana Weeder from Winter Street Architects regarding
                removal of the Commercial Diesel Generator through the roof.




      6) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item five – Meet with representatives
         from MMWEC.
Marblehead Municipal Light Commission
June 30, 2015
Page 3 of 3



         Representatives from MMWEC discussed with the Commission their
         company origin and service overview for MMLD and other municipal utilities
         and their contractual relationships in regards to member services and power
         supply and how we all interact and work together.

         It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner Kowalik
         and unanimously.

             Vote #2015-29
             Voted: To give employees a half day off the day before the holiday as has
                    been granted in the past to enjoy the long 4th of July weekend.

         It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner Maccario
         and unanimously.

             Vote: #2015-30
             Voted: To adjourn this meeting at 6:11 P.M.
