               MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                         Tuesday, July 14, 2015
                   80 Commercial Street, Marblehead, MA

                                     Minutes


Present for the meeting were: Chairman Hull, Commissioners Homan, Kowalik and
Tumulty, General Manager Hadden and Financial Assistant Barrett.

      1) Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 P.M. There was no approval of
         minutes for June 30th.

      2) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item two – Discuss and vote on
         contract with Winter Street Architects.

          It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner Homan
          and unanimously.

             Vote #2015-31
             Voted: To retain Kopelman and Paige in particular Rick Holland as labor
                    counsel for the General Manager and the Board in regards to Mass
                    General Laws Chapter 164.

          It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner Homan
          and unanimously.

             Vote #2015-32
             Voted: To affirm the contract with Winter Street Architects with a
                    provision that the addendum provided by Rick Holland is included.




      3) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item three – Motion to go to Executive
         Session to discuss personnel issues.
Marblehead Municipal Light Commission
July 14, 2015
Page 2 of 2




         Chairman Hull took a poll vote of the Commission to go to Executive Session
         to discuss personnel issues. Commissioner Tumulty – yes; Commissioner
         Homan – yes; Chairman Hull – yes.

             Vote #2015-33
             Voted: To go to Executive Session at 4:09 P.M. to discuss personnel
                    issues.

         The Commission returned to open session at 4:50 P.M.

         It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner Homan
         and unanimously.

             Vote #2015-34
             Voted: As of this Friday, July 17th the business office will go to half days
                    and close at 12:30 P.M. on Fridays for the remainder of the
                    summer through Labor Day, September 4th, with the understanding
                    that there will be no more comp time any further for non-union
                    personnel going forward.

         There was further discussion by the General Manager and the Commission
         regarding the Commercial Street Building Renovations concerning Winter
         Street Architects and the financing of the project.

      4) Chairman Hull requested a motion to adjourn.

         It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner Kowalik
         and unanimously.

             Vote #2015-35
             Voted: To adjourn this meeting at 5:18 P.M.
