               MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                         Thursday, May 21, 2015
                   80 Commercial Street, Marblehead, MA

                                      Minutes


Present for the meeting were: Chairman Hull, Commissioners Homan, Kowalik,
Maccario and Tumulty, General Manager Hadden and Manager of Finance Dugan.

      1) Chairman Hull called the meeting to Open Session at 4:03 P.M.

          Commissioner Tumulty introduced and welcomed Michael J. Maccario as the
          new Commissioner to the board.

          It was also moved by Commissioner Tumulty to nominate Commissioner Hull
          as Chairman of the Marblehead Municipal Light Commission for the ensuing
          year, second by Commissioner Maccario and unanimously.

             Vote #2015-20
             Voted: To elect Commissioner Hull as Chairman of the Marblehead
                    Municipal Light Commission for the ensuing year, May 2015 to
                    May 2016.

      The Commission had a general discussion on the contract with Winter Street
      Architects on the Commercial Street building renovations. Chairman Hull
      mentioned that Dana Weeder of Winter Street Architects did address and answer
      the Commission’s questions from the last meeting in an email which will be put
      into the minutes of this meeting.

      Chairman Hull informed the Commission that he will follow up some more with
      Dana Weeder before the Commission votes on the contract.

      General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that he would like to move
      ahead with the Jewish Group, Greater Boston Eruv Corp., who would like to pay
      a pole attachment fee to us for our poles they are using and come up with some
      sort of fee to charge them.

      It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner Homan and
      unanimously.
Marblehead Municipal Light Commission
May 21, 2015
Page 2 of 2




             Vote #2015-21
             Voted: To authorize the General Manager to set a pole attachment fee for
                    the Jewish Group, Greater Boston Eruv Corp. for the use of our
                    poles.

      2) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item two – Motion to go to Executive
         Session to discuss policy strategy. Not to return to Open Session.

         Chairman Hull took a poll vote of the Commission to go to Executive Session
         to discuss policy strategy. Not to return to Open Session. Commissioner
         Tumulty – yes; Commissioner Kowalik – yes; Commissioner Homan – yes;
         Commissioner Maccario – yes; Chairman Hull – yes.

             Vote #2015-22
             Voted: To go to Executive Session at 4:26 P.M. to discuss policy strategy.
                    Not to return to Open Session.
