               MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                       Wednesday, February 18, 2015
                   80 Commercial Street, Marblehead, MA

                                        Minutes


Present for the meeting were: Chairman Hull, Commissioners Homan, Kowalik and
Tumulty, General Manager Hadden, Business Assistant Stone, Energy Services Advisor
Snow and Lead Customer Service Rep Milan.

      1) Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:13 P.M. and proceeded with agenda
         item one – Discuss Accounting firm search.

          The Commission discussed the process of selecting a new accounting
          firm/auditor for 2014. The Commission suggested getting in touch with the
          Town’s auditor, Powers & Sullivan and possibly calling a few other
          municipals to see who they use as their auditors. The Commission suggested
          a timetable as such to get a new firm on board by the end of this month, a hire
          date by March 15th and a start date by March 31st.

      2) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item two – Discuss website vendor
         options.

          The Commission and Energy Services Advisor Snow discussed the two main
          options, one being a larger company the Town uses Civic Plus which
          Commissioner Kowalik prefers and the other one being a smaller company
          Comfort Zone, which Energy Services Advisor Snow prefers. The
          Commission is also going to talk to John McGinn regarding Civic Plus to get
          some more information. There will be further discussion at a future meeting.

          3) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item three – Discuss administrative
             office hours.

             Lead Customer Service Rep Milan and Energy Services Advisor Snow
             discussed with the Commission a proposal to change the administrative
             office hours to 7:30 – 5:00 with thirty minute lunches Monday thru
             Thursday and either 7:30 – 11:30 or 8:00 – 12:00 or something similar on
             Fridays similar to the rest of the Town offices.
Marblehead Municipal Light Commission
February 18, 2015
Page 2 of 2



             Chairman Hull suggested they come up with some sort of actual schedule
             first to the board which could be voted on at the next Commission
             meeting.

      4) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item four – Discuss subcommittees, i.e.
         Alternative energy, Building renovation and Website.

         Chairman Hull assigned Commissioners Kowalik and Tumulty to the
         Alternative energy subcommittee, Commissioner Homan and himself to the
         Building renovation subcommittee and Commissioners Kowalik and Tumulty
         to the Website subcommittee.

         It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner Homan
         and unanimously.

             Vote #2015-5
             Voted: To allow the Chairman to sign the payroll on behalf of the board in
                    their absence representing their proxy.

      5) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item five – Move to go to Executive
         Session; Personnel Matters. Not to return to Open Session.

         Chairman Hull took a poll vote of the Commission to go into Executive
         Session; Personnel Matters. Not to return to Open Session. Commissioner
         Tumulty – yes; Commissioner Kowalik – yes; Commissioner Homan – yes;
         Chairman Hull – yes.

             Vote #2015-6
             Voted: Move to go to Executive Session at 5:45 P.M.; Personnel Matters.
                    Not to return to Open Session.
