               MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                         Thursday, April 30, 2015
                   80 Commercial Street, Marblehead, MA

                                     Minutes


Present for the meeting were: Chairman Hull, Commissioners Homan, Kowalik and
Tumulty, General Manager Hadden and Business Assistant Stone.

      1) Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:03 P.M. and proceeded with agenda
         item one – Approve minutes of the March 25, 2015 meeting.

          It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner Homan
          and unanimously.

             Vote #2015-16
             Voted: To approve the minutes of the March 25, 2015 Commission
                    Meeting as presented.

      2) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item two – Approve minutes of the
         April 9, 2015 meeting.

          It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner Kowalik
          and unanimously.

             Vote #2015-17
             Voted: To approve the minutes of the April 9, 2015 Commission Meeting
                    as presented.

      3) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item three – Financial Reports.

             a) Business Assistant Stone distributed to the Commission the
                departments February 2015 Operating Statement and the March 2015
                Accrued Operating Statement.

             b) Business Assistant Stone informed the Commission that the Purchased
                Power Adjustment for April 2015 remains at .16 cents per KWH for
                all customers.
Marblehead Municipal Light Commission
April 30, 2015
Page 2 of 3



         4) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item four – Managers Report.

             a) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that we are
                currently in the process of having our software company Northern
                Data Systems take over the process of mailing out our customer
                billings. We may also look into other billing/financial software
                companies in the near future.

             b) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that the contract
                for the architect for the building renovations is proceeding along and
                that we will address it at the next meeting.

             c) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that Energy
                Services Advisor Snow is working on the new website design with
                ComfortZones and it is looking great.

             d) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that we have had
                only one major outage recently and it involved the Clifton Circuit.

             e) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that we generated
                today up at the Wilkins Generating Station for the noise/sound test and
                will keep them up to date on the status.

             f) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that the people
                from Ohio who are interested in the Commercial Street Diesel came by
                to check it out and take some pictures. Hopefully, they may come
                back to take it sometime in May.

             g) General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that he will be
                attending the annual MMWEC meeting on May 7th and 8th and the
                MEAM meeting on May 14th and 15th.

      5) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item five – Meet with Synergy Energy
         for solar discussion.

         Charles Jenkins, CEO of Synergy Energy LLC discussed with the Board his
         company and solar energy and its potential now and in the future as another
         energy source for the department.

      6) Chairman Hull proceeded with agenda item six – Make motion to go to
         Executive Session for policy strategy. Not to return to open session.

         Chairman Hull took a poll vote of the Commission to go into Executive
         Session for policy strategy. Not to return to Open Session. Commissioner
Marblehead Municipal Light Commission
April 30, 2015
Page 3 of 3



         Tumulty – yes; Commissioner Kowalik – yes; Commissioner Homan – yes;
         Chairman Hull – yes.

             Vote #2015-18
             Voted: Motion to go to Executive Session at 5:57 P.M. for policy strategy.
                    Not to return to Open Session.
