           MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                       Tuesday, September 27, 2016
        40 Tioga Way, 3RD Floor, Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                       Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Kowalik and Tumulty,
General Manager Hadden, Finance Manager Dugan, Finance Assistant Barrett, Manager
of Technical Operations Coleman, Rick Holland, Kopelman & Paige


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:05 P.M.


Interconnect Agreement for Solar:
Attorney Holland presented the Commissioner’s with a proposed interconnection
agreement for renewable distributed generation. Attorney Holland will meet with
Coleman and Hadden to make any necessary changes to the agreement. The
Commission will have to adopt the agreement before forwarding to the DPU for its
approval.


Minutes:
Vote: #2016 - 48
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Kowalik to
approve the minutes of the September 14, 2016 meeting. Unanimous


Financial Reports:
Finance Manager Dugan distributed to and discussed with the Commission the July 2016
actual operating statement and the August accrued operating statement.


The Purchased Power Adjustment for September 2016 remains at .14 cents per Kwh for
all customers.
The Commissioners discussed the customer deposit policy for tenants. Currently, tenants
must deposit $200.00, which is held in the consumer deposit cash account until the tenant
moves out at which time the $200.00 credit is applied to their final bill.


Vote: #2016 - 49
It was moved by Commissioner Kowalik and seconded by Commissioner Tumulty to
credit the tenant’s bill for the $200.00 initial deposit, succeeding the tenant making 24
consecutive payments before the due date. Unanimous


Manager’s Report:
Peaker provided Hadden with a detailed plan and timeframe with the expectation to meet
100% of the contract’s specifications. The new solution will take about 6 weeks to
fabricate, which involves replacing the existing exhaust stack with a modified stack,
loaded with sound attenuation pack material and a directional elbow on the top of the
muffler stack directed away from the sound area of concern.


Vote: #2016 – 50
It was moved by Commissioner Kowalik and seconded by Commissioner Tumulty to
make a payment to Peaker for 33% of the total contract. Unanimous


Hadden informed the Commission that building renovation bid will be advertised on
October 13, 2016. The garage at 80 commercial will require a three phase temp for heat
during the renovation process.


Executive Session:
Vote: #2016 - 51
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Kowalik to
enter into executive session; votes may be taken and if they are, votes will be released at a
time deemed appropriate by Board Counsel; the Board will not reconvene in open
session. The Board was polled: Tumulty – yes, Kowalik - yes, Hull - yes. Executive
session commenced at 6:05 PM.
