               MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                             Wednesday May 18, 2016
        7 Widger Road, Lower Level Small Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                          Minutes


Present for the meeting were: Chairman Hull, Commissioner’s Homan, Kowalik and
Tumulty, General Manager Hadden

Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:05 P.M.

Reorganization:
Vote: #2016/22
It was moved by Commissioner Homan and seconded by Commissioner Tumulty to
appoint Michael Hull as Chairman for another year. Unanimous

General Manager Report:
Hadden informed the Commissioners that he and Commissioner Tumulty met with Rich
Baldacci, Building Commission, and William Lanphear, Town Engineering and
Conservation Administrator, for preliminary discussions regarding permitting. The
building renovation will be on the agenda for the Conservation Commission’s meeting of
June 9, 2016. The building renovation will be on the agenda for the Zoning Board of
Appeals meeting of June 21, 2016.
Hadden also informed the Commissioners that he, Finance Manager Dugan and Finance
Assistant Barrett met with Matthew Ide, MMWEC’s Treasurer and Scott Taylor,
MMWEC’s Treasury & Financial Analyst, to discuss the financing of the building
renovation.
Hadden also informed the Commissioners that construction has begun on the Wilkins
Station foundation.

Executive Session:
Vote: #2016/23
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Homan to enter
into executive session; votes may be taken and if they are, votes will be released at a time
deemed appropriate by Board Counsel; the Board will reconvene in open session. The
Board was polled: Tumulty – yes, Kowalik - yes, Homan – yes, Hull - yes. Executive
session commenced at 4:45 PM. Returned to regular session at 6:00 PM. Unanimous

Adjourn:
Chairman Hull requested a motion to adjourn.

Vote #2016/24
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Homan to
adjourn at 6:05. Unanimous
