           MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                        Tuesday, October 25, 2016
                       RD
        40 Tioga Way, 3 Floor, Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                          Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Homan, Kowalik
Maccario and Tumulty, General Manager Hadden, Finance Manager Dugan, Finance
Assistant Barrett, Manager of Technical Operations Coleman


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 P.M.


Minutes:
Vote: #2016 - 52
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
approve the minutes of the August 30, 2016 meeting. Homan, Hull, Maccario and
Tumulty in favor; Kowalik abstained


Vote: #2016 - 53
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Kowalik to
approve the minutes of the September 27, 2016 meeting. Hull, Kowalik and Tumulty
in favor; Homan and Maccario abstained


Solar on Capped Landfill:
Director of Public Health, Andrew Petty and Chairman of the Board of Health, Michelle
Gottlieb, attended the meeting to initiate a dialogue regarding the possibility of installing
a solar array on the capped landfill. Both parties agree that the idea is worth studying and
that it will be a collaborative effort among the Town Departments and the landfill’s
abutting residents.


Financial Reports:
Finance Manager Dugan distributed to and discussed with the Commission the August
2016 actual operating statement and the September accrued operating statement.


The Purchased Power Adjustment for October 2016 remains at .14 cents per Kwh for all
customers.
Manager’s Report:
The building renovation has gone out to bid. Several subs have requested a walk through.


General Manager Hadden received the invoice from Peaker for 1/3 of the contract.
General Hadden informed the Commission that Stoddard (exhaust system designer) and
Peaker were testing the sound at Wilkins on Tuesday, October 25th. Peaker and Stoddard
will continue to work collectively until the decibel level is resolved.


It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
have General Manager Hadden draft a letter to Peaker quantifying our unanticipated costs
associated with Peaker not meeting the contract deadline of July 1, 2016. Unanimous


Chairman Hull requested a motion to adjourn.
Vote #2016 - 55
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Kowalik to
adjourn at 5:15. Unanimous
.
