           MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                          Tuesday July 25, 2017
                       RD
        40 Tioga Way, 3 Floor, Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                       Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Homan, Kowalik,
Maccario and Tumulty, General Manager Hadden, Manager of Finance Dugan, Finance
Assistant Barrett and Manager of Technical Operations Coleman.
Others Present: Billy Grant and Yura Zazulin of North Shore Consultancy, Dana Weeder
and Michael Fields of Winter Street Architects


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:03 P.M.


Minutes:
Vote #2017 - 33
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
approve the minutes of the June 27, 2017. Unanimous


North Shore Consultancy:
Billy Grant and Yura Zazulin of North Shore Consultancy updated the Commissioners on
the building renovation. There have been three scheduling delays to date: asbestos,
elevator and generator. A revised finished schedule has not been determined. The
Commissioners have asked Winter Street Architects to request quotes for a new roof over
the upper garage and switch gear room.


MMWEC Funding:


   AUTHORIZATION OF POOLED LOAN PROGRAM LOAN AGREEMENT
                             AND PROMISSORY NOTE


       WHEREAS, the Marblehead Light Department (“MMLD”) is desirous of
designing, demolishing and renovating it’s offices located at 80 Commercial Street,
Marblehead, Massachusetts (“Renovated Office”); and


       WHEREAS, the Renovated Office will be used in connection with the business
of the MMLD; and


       WHEREAS, the General Manager of the MMLD has determined that it is
prudent and in the best interests of the MMLD to finance the costs of the Renovated
Office through funds obtained by a loan from the Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale
Electric Company (“MMWEC”) through MMWEC’s Pooled Loan Program.


       WHEREFORE, it is voted:
Vote #2017 - 34
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario that
the Board hereby accepts the recommendation of the General Manager and hereby finds
that it is prudent and in the best interests of the MMLD to finance the costs of the
designing, demolishing, building and renovating it’s offices, through funds obtained by a
loan from MMWEC under MMWEC’s Pooled Loan Program; and


hereby authorizes and approves the MMLD’s borrowing of funds from MMWEC, from
time to time, pursuant to MMWEC’s Pooled Loan Program for the purposes stated in this
vote; and


hereby approves the Pooled Loan Program Loan Agreement between MMWEC and the
Town of Marblehead acting by and through the MMLD (“PLP Loan Agreement”)
substantially in the form of the PLP Loan Agreement presented to the Board at this
meeting and made a part of the record of this meeting; and


hereby authorizes the General Manager to execute and deliver the PLP Loan Agreement
substantially in the form of the PLP Loan Agreement presented to the Board at this
meeting, with such changes and amendments thereto as the General Manager, with the
advice of MMLD counsel, may deem necessary or appropriate; and


hereby approves the Promissory Note Pooled Loan Program Loan Agreement (“Note”), to
evidence the obligation to repay the loan made by MMWEC to MMLD under the PLP
Loan Agreement, substantially in the form of the Note presented to the Board at this
meeting and made a part of the record of this meeting; and


hereby authorizes the General Manager to execute and deliver the Note substantially in
the form of the Note presented to the Board at this meeting, with such changes and
amendments thereto as the General Manager, with the advice of MMLD counsel, may
deem necessary or appropriate; and
and hereby directs the General Manager to cause the MMLD to perform all of its
obligations under the PLP Loan Agreement and the Note at such time as the General
Manager determines is appropriate to carry out the intent of this vote; and


hereby authorizes the General Manager, with the advice of MMLD counsel, to execute,
accept, deliver and/or perform obligations for such further documents, or agreements and
take any and all further actions, as the General Manager deems may reasonably be
required to carry out, give effect to and consummate the PLP Loan Agreement and the
Note. Unanimous


Vote #2017 - 35
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario that
the Board hereby authorizes the General Manager to take any and all further actions the
General Manager deems may be required for the purposes of accomplishing the PLP Loan
Agreement and the Note. Unanimous


Financial Report:
Manager of Finance Dugan distributed to and discussed with the Commission the May
2017 Operating Statement and the June 2017 Accrued Operating Statement.


The Purchased Power Adjustment for June 2017 remains at .16 cents per Kwh for all
customers.

Manager of Finance Dugan informed the Commissioners that Goulet, Salvidio &
Associates P.C. has completed the 2016 financial audit.

General Manager’s Report:
General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that Tim Kucab of Tighe & Bond is
working with Sue O’Connell of the DEP to resolve the Wilkins stack issue.


The LED street light conversion is well on its way. The crews started on West Shore
Drive and Pleasant Street. The main streets will have a 150W bulb and the secondary
streets will have a 70W bulb. The fixtures have a 10 year warranty.


Colin Coleman informed the Commissioners that the Eco-net replacement program is
going well with about half of the 250 Eco-nets replaced to date.
General Manager Hadden will contact John McGinn, Town Administrator, to discuss the
Ocean Avenue underground project for the possibility of adding one more street light for
public safety reasons. The project is currently slated to have four street lights.


General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that he is in the process of taking
bids to replace the line bucket truck with a replacement cost of about $175,000.00.


General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that MMLD will contract with
SOS Mobile for the crews to have tablets which will modernize the work flow process.
Middleton and Groton report that the SOS Mobile application has been very effective for
their operations.


NREL Presentation:
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) of Denver, Colorado is a national
laboratory of the U.S. Department of Energy. Commissioner Kowalik presented to the
Commissioners NREL’s draft scope of work as follows:
Background
The Department of Energy’s (DOE) National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) is
the only DOE national laboratory solely dedicated to advancing renewable energy (RE)
and energy efficiency (EE) technologies and applications. Since its inception, NREL has
supported both the public and the private sectors in integrating EE and RE within energy
systems to lower energy use and to meet remaining energy needs with resources having
minimal environmental impact. NREL is now a sought after resource for EE, RE, and
energy integration expertise.

Marblehead Municipal Light Department (MMLD) is a municipally-owned electric
company providing electric power to the citizens and businesses of Marblehead,
Massachusetts. MMLD is interested in working with NREL to understand the technical
and economic viability of renewable energy in Marblehead.


Project Description

The goal of this project is to assess the technical and financial viability of adding RE
generation to MMLD’s electrical system and prioritize technologies with potential sites;
identify opportunities for emerging technology demonstrations; identify the potential
impact of increasing electric vehicle deployment; and understand how RE and storage can
contribute to community resiliency. Potential future NREL support could provide similar
assistance to Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company (MMWEC), which
includes twenty Massachusetts municipal utilities.

The following tasks will be performed:
   1. Assessment of Renewable Energy and Storage Techno-Economic Feasibility
      NREL will conduct a screening to evaluate the technical and economic feasibility
      of potential RE and storage opportunities in Marblehead, and prioritize potential
      technologies and associated locations to meet varying RE goals. This task will
      help MMLD to understand the economics of achieving different penetrations of
      RE.
NREL will evaluate opportunities for solar photovoltaics (PV), wind (onshore and
offshore), ground source heat pumps (GSHP), and battery storage.

MMLD will provide:
  a) Potential locations for RE and estimates of space available at each
     location.
  b) MMLD 15 minute load profile for one year.
  c) Wholesale energy prices for the same one year period that RE generation
     will offset.
  d) Information on other value streams that may be available to RE or storage,
     such as incentives, ancillary service markets or capacity markets.

NREL will work with MMLD to define analysis assumptions, including:
  a) Cost assumptions for RE and storage.
  b) Ownership models (MMLD-owned or 3rd-party financed).
  c) Economic parameters including analysis period, discount rate, utility
     escalation rate, and inflation rate.

NREL will conduct a site visit to assess potential sites, and then use existing
modeling tools and renewable energy resource data to evaluate five scenarios for
MMLD:
  a) Minimum lifecycle cost: This scenario minimizes the cost of energy to
      MMLD over the analysis period.
  b) 25% renewable energy: This scenario provides the least-cost combination
      of renewables to generate 25% of MMLD’s energy requirements from RE.
  c) 50% renewable energy: This scenario provides the least-cost combination of
      renewables to generate 50% of MMLD’s energy requirements from RE.
  d) 75% renewable energy: This scenario provides the least-cost combination
      of renewables to generate 75% of MMLD’s energy requirements from RE.
  e) 100% renewable energy: This scenario provides the least-cost mix of
      renewables to generate 100% of MMLD’s energy requirements from RE.

For each scenario described above, NREL will provide MMLD:
   a) Prioritized list of technologies and sites recommended, including
       technology type, size, and energy production.
   b) Economics including the initial cost, annual cost/savings, and lifecycle
 cost
   c) Dispatch strategy for the recommended assets.

Note that the described work only includes energy balance modeling to assess the
ability of RE generation to meet load. It does include any power flow modeling to
identify RE interconnection potential; this could be conducted in follow-on work.

Deliverable: NREL will provide a written report (~15 pages) or slide deck (~25
slides) summarizing analysis assumptions and results for each of the scenarios
outlined above. The report will provide a prioritized list of options to meet
varying levels of renewable energy generation. NREL will also provide a
spreadsheet of modeling results. The budgeted cost includes two trips to
Marblehead: one for initial site assessment, and a second to discuss study
findings.
       Schedule: Draft results will be delivered three months after receipt of all required
       data from MMLD. Final results will be delivered 1 month after receipt of MMLD
       comments on draft results.

       Budget: $90,000

   2. Emerging Technologies Evaluation
      NREL will identify up to ten emerging technologies that may be good candidates
      for demonstrations in Marblehead, such as building energy efficiency measures,
      wave power, or tidal power. NREL will outline the expected costs and potential
      energy generation of each technology, and recommend the top three technologies
      for MMLD’s consideration. If MMLD elects to conduct a technology
      demonstration, NREL can support measurement and verification (M&V) of the
      technology under a future contract. M&V is not included here.

       Deliverable: NREL will provide a slide deck (~10 slides) and webinar
       summarizing technologies MMLD could consider for technology demonstrations.

       Schedule: A draft slide deck and webinar will be delivered two months after
       kickoff. A final slide deck will be delivered 1 month after receipt of MMLD
       comments on the draft slide deck.

       Budget: $25,000

Vote #2017 - 36
Moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Homan to move
forward with NREL’s proposal #1 and #2 subject to:
   1. A discussion with Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company
       (MMWEC) for their input, ongoing involvement and financial support.
   2. Contact American Public Power Association (APPA) to inquire whether
       comparative services exist and if the NREL project qualifies for APPA DEEDS
       (Demonstration of Energy & Efficiency Developments) funding.
   3. Discussion with Mass Clean Energy (MassCEC) about their grant programs in the
       MassCEC Renewable Energy Trust Fund. MMLD would be required to join as a
       permanent participant with fees fixed by the State legislature at .0005/kwh for all
       kwh’s billed by MMLD. Once MMLD becomes a participant in the trust fund,
       MMLD could submit applications for renewable energy projects. Unanimous

Joseph Kowalik NREL:
Vote #2017 - 37
Moved by commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Homan to reimburse
Commissioner Kowalik for expenses incurred towards the NREL facility visit.
Unanimous
Adjourn:
Chairman Hull requested a motion to adjourn.


Vote #2017 - 38
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
adjourn at 6:45 P.M. Unanimous
