           MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                          Tuesday May 16, 2017
                       RD
        40 Tioga Way, 3 Floor, Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                        Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Kowalik, Maccario and
Tumulty, General Manager Hadden, Manager of Finance Dugan, Finance Assistant
Barrett, Manager of Technical Operations Coleman


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 P.M.

Reorganization:
Vote: #2016 - 23
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
appoint Michael Hull as Chairman for another year. Unanimous



John Livermore:
John Livermore, founder of Sustainable Marblehead, a centralized group of Marblehead
citizens who want to take actions on issues of energy and climate change, presented
Sustainable Marblehead’s vision for the town. Their first projects will include town-wide
carbon inventory, becoming a Massachusetts Green Community, and adoption of Mass
Power Forward’s target for the town to be 100% powered by renewable energy by 2035.


Ted Moore:
Ted Moore and Brian Herr, Vice President of Solect, attended the meeting to discuss the
new array located on Mr. Moore’s property at 21 Tioga Way. Mr. Moore distributed
several printouts of real time generation reports form the SolrenView website. Mr.
Moore expressed concerns regarding the solar credits for excess generation. The Light
Department will monitor the next few months and revisit the solar agreement if deemed
necessary.


Minutes:
Vote #2017 - 25
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
approve the minutes of March 21, 2017. Unanimous
Minutes:
Vote #2017 - 26
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Kowalik to
approve the minutes of March 28, 2017. Hull, Kowalik, and Tumulty in favor;
Maccario abstained.


MMLD Proxy - MMWEC:
Vote: #2016 - 24
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
appoint Andrew Hadden as MMLD’s proxy regarding all MMWEC matters and to
appoint Michael Hull, Chairman, as the 1st alternate and Joseph Kowalik as the 2nd
alternate. Unanimous


Financial Report:
Manager of Finance Dugan distributed to the Commission the February and March 2017
Operating Statements and the April 2017 Accrued Operating Statement.


The Purchased Power Adjustment for May 2017 remains at .16 cents per Kwh for all
customers.


General Manager’s Report:
The building renovation continues to be in the discovery stage as GVW has proposed 14
change orders to date, 8 of which have been approved. The cost of the 14 change orders
is approximately 3% of the original contract price.


National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL):
Vote #2017 - 27
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
authorize Commissioner Kowalik to enter into a discussion with NREL for an estimate of
cost to perform an analysis of potential renewable energy in Marblehead. Unanimous


MMWEC - Employee and Service Customer Nissan Group Buy Program:
Vote #2017 - 28
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
request General Manager Hadden to further explore MMWEC’s 100% Electric Nissan
LEAF program. Unanimous
Adjourn:
Chairman Hull requested a motion to adjourn.


Vote #2017 - 29
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Kowalik to
adjourn at 6:35. Unanimous
