           MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                       Tuesday November 28, 2017
                       RD
        40 Tioga Way, 3 Floor, Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                         Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Homan, Maccario and
Tumulty. General Manager Hadden, Manager of Finance Dugan, Finance Assistant
Barrett and Manager of Technical Operations Coleman


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:02 P.M.


Vote #2017 - 52
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
approve the minutes of October 24, 2017. Unanimous


Vote #2017 - 53
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Homan to
approve the minutes of November 13, 2017. Unanimous


Building Renovation Update:
Billy Grant and Yura Zazulin of North Shore Consultancy, Mike Fields and Dana Weeder
of Winter Street Architects updated the Commissioners on the building renovation. The
GVW’s target milestone schedule remains unchanged as the current target date of
substantial completion and certificate of occupancy is slated for mid-February 2018.
The elevator should be completed by end of this month. The geothermal will require a
water deionization process. Winter Street will begin the procurement for blinds and
furniture. North Shore Consultancy and Winter Street will meet later this week to
discuss all other necessities outside the scope of the renovation such as appliances.


Financial Report:
Manager of Finance Dugan distributed to and discussed with the Commission the
September 2017 Operating Statement, October’s 2017 Accrued Operating Statement,
System Sales and Aged Receivables.

The Purchased Power Adjustment for November 2017 remains at .16 cents per Kwh for
all customers.
General Manager’s Report:
General Manager Hadden informed that he will send Greg Chane and Kyle Larson to the
Virgin Islands for two weeks to assist with the hurricane aftermath. Virginia
Transformers will be hooking up the new Beacon Substation transformer within a few
weeks.


Adjourn:
Chairman Hull requested a motion to adjourn.
Vote #2017 – 54


It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
adjourn at 5:11 P.M. Unanimous
