           MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                        Tuesday, January 31, 2017
                       RD
        40 Tioga Way, 3 Floor, Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                          Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Kowalik, Maccario and
Tumulty, General Manager Hadden, Finance Assistant Barrett, Manager of Technical
Operations Coleman


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 P.M.
Minutes:
Vote: #2017 - 6
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
approve the minutes of January 10, 2017 meeting. Hull, Kowalik and Tumulty in
favor: Maccario abstained

Financial Report:
Finance Assistant Barrett distributed to and discussed with the Commission the
November 2016 Operating Statement and the December 2016 Accrued Operating
Statement.

The Purchased Power Adjustment for January 2017 will be .16 cents per Kwh for all
customers.

MMLD Reimbursement Resolution with MMWEC:
Vote: #2017 – 7
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Kowalik to
adopt the following resolution:


       WHEREAS, the Marblehead Municipal Light Department (the "MMLD"), borrowing
directly with all of the proceeds to be used for the MMLD’s benefit, has and continues to
have an intention to finance the Project (as hereinafter defined) with debt; and
       WHEREAS, the Internal Revenue Code and applicable regulations require the
MMLD to take certain action in connection with the payment of certain Project Expenditures
(as hereinafter defined) prior to the issuance of tax-exempt bonds or other evidences of
indebtedness in order to allow the MMLD to be reimbursed for such Project Expenditures;
               NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT:
               1.      The statements contained in this Resolution with respect to the
reimbursement of Project Expenditures are intended to be statements of official intent as
required by, and in conformance with, the provisions of Treasury Regulation Section 1.150-
2(e).
                2.      For purposes of this Resolution: (a) “Project” shall mean the MMLD’s
designing, permitting, building, and furnishing a renovated light department building at 80
Commercial Street, Marblehead Massachusetts; and (b) “Project Expenditures” shall mean
and include the expenditures incurred and made in connection with planning, designing or
constructing the Project, which Project Expenditures include but are not limited to
expenditures/costs for legal, consulting, engineering, environmental, construction, financial,
restriction releases and other related expenditures and costs incurred.
                3.      This Resolution is intended to clarify the MMLD’s intention that: (a)
Project Expenditures be reimbursed with the proceeds of debt issued by the MMLD through
the Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company’s (“MMWEC”) Pooled Loan
Program; and (b) this Resolution, and any prior written statements of MMLD’s intention
satisfying the requirements of Treasury Regulation section 1.150-2(e) permit reimbursement
of Project Expenditures incurred and paid within 60 days prior to the date of such
statements.


                4.      The MMLD hereby further states that commencing in 2016 and
continuing through today, it has incurred and paid preliminary Project Expenditures,
comprised of engineering, surveying, and costs similarly incurred prior to commencement of
construction, but excluding costs of site preparation, and similar costs incident to
commencement of construction and that the MMLD expects to make additional Project
Expenditures in the future.
                5.      The maximum principal amount of debt expected to be issued for the
Project is $4,500,000.00.
                6.      The MMLD reasonably expects to reimburse the Project
Expenditures with the proceeds of tax-exempt debt issued by the Massachusetts Municipal
Wholesale Electric Company (“MMWEC”) through MMWEC’s Pooled Loan Program
subsequent to the date hereof; however, this Resolution does not constitute a binding
obligation of the MMLD to issue such debt.
                7.      This Resolution shall take effect immediately. Unanimous



Building Renovation:
Vote #2017 - 8
It was moved by Commissioner Maccario and seconded by Commissioner Kowalik to
hire NSC (North Shore Consultancy Construction Consultants) as the project manager for
the building renovation. Unanimous
Adjourn:
Chairman Hull requested a motion to adjourn.

Vote #2017 - 9
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Kowalik to
adjourn at 5:45. Unanimous
.
