           MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                          Tuesday June 6, 2017
                       RD
        40 Tioga Way, 3 Floor, Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                         Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Kowalik, Maccario and
Tumulty, General Manager Hadden, Manager of Finance Dugan and Manager of
Technical Operations Coleman.


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 P.M.

Update on Commercial Street Renovation with Winter Street Architects and North
Shore Consultants:
William Grant of North Shore Consultants and Dana Weeder of Winter Street Architects
gave the Board an update on the Commercial Street Renovation Project. The monthly
bills have been going well so far to this point. There have been about eighteen change
orders so far, amounting to about three percent of the total project cost year to date. GVW
has requested an extension of time till January 18, 2018 to finish the building. The project
schedule will be ramping up over the course of the next few months. North Shore
Consultants will be providing monthly progress reports going forward to the General
Manager and the Commission.



Minutes:
Vote #2017-30
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Kowalik to
approve the minutes of May 16, 2017. Unanimous



General Manager’s Report:
General Manager Hadden and Manager of Technical Operations Coleman informed the
Commission that we have hired a new employee for the Meter Department who will be
starting work on Monday.


General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that he is looking into the need for
General Liability Insurance coverage for the Department.


General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that Sue McConnell of the DEP is
still not happy with the stacks at Wilkins and that he is going to contact Tim Kucab from
Tighe & Bond and possibly expedite the process.


General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that the Union would like to change
their work hours on a trial basis for the summer to 7:00 A.M. to 3:00 P.M.
Commissioner Kowalik informed the Commission that he would like to contact the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory and setup a conference call with the Commission
to discuss what they could do for us.


Adjourn:
Chairman Hull requested a motion to adjourn.


Vote #2017 - 31
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
adjourn at 6:40 P.M. Unanimous
