           MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                      Wednesday September 27, 2017
        40 Tioga Way, 3RD Floor, Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                        Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Homan, Kowalik, and
Tumulty. General Manager Hadden, Manager of Finance Dugan, Finance Assistant
Barrett and Manager of Technical Operations Coleman


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:05 P.M.


Minutes:
Vote #2017 - 43
It was moved by Commissioner Kowalik and seconded by Commissioner Homan to
approve the minutes of August 29, 2017. Homan, Hull and Kowalik in favor;
Tumulty abstained.


Financial Report:
Manager of Finance Dugan distributed to the Commission the July 2017 Operating
Statement and the August 2017 Accrued Operating Statement.


The Purchased Power Adjustment for September 2017 remains at .16 cents per Kwh for
all customers.


Solar Marblehead Charter:
Brian Herr, Vice President of Solect, attended the meeting to explore the possibility of
constructing a 250 KW DC solar array located at 17 Lime Street. Mr. Herr will forward
his proposal to the Commission for review and consideration.


General Manager’s Report:
General Manager Hadden updated the Commissioners on the status of building
renovation. Hadden reports that the financing for the $4.5 million has been approved.
The generator should be delivered within a few days and the geothermal is complete.


General Manager Hadden updated the Commissioners on the status of Wilkins. He will
meet with Sue McConnell of DEP and Tim Kucab of Tighe & Bond during week of
October 10th to discuss cutting the elbows off the stacks and any other issues that will
permit us to get the generator online.
Hadden reports that Kerry Homan and Kevin Stone returned from Florida where they
assisted a few communities with mutual aid in the wake of Hurricane Irma. He reports
that the crew departed on 9/10 and returned on 9/22. The crew reported that the power
restoration process went well and that they were treated well by heir host communities. A
special thanks to Kevin and Kerry for making themselves available for Florida’s mutual
aid request.


The Board decided not to go into executive session with the intent to discuss negotiations
with non-union personnel.

Adjourn:
Chairman Hull requested a motion to adjourn.


Vote #2017 - 44
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Kowalik to
adjourn at 6:20 P.M. Unanimous
