           MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                         Tuesday August 29, 2017
                       RD
        40 Tioga Way, 3 Floor, Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                       Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Kowalik, Maccario and
Tumulty, General Manager Hadden and Manager of Finance Dugan.



Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:05 P.M.


Minutes:
Vote #2017 - 39
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
approve the minutes of the July 25, 2017. Unanimous



John Livermore:
John Livermore, of Sustainable Marblehead, a centralized group of Marblehead citizens
who want to take actions on issues of energy and climate change came back with an
updated presentation on Sustainable Marblehead’s vision for the town. Their goal is to
turn Marblehead into becoming a Massachusetts Green Community and adoption of Mass
Power Forward’s target for the town to be 100% powered by renewable energy by 2035
with the support of MMLD.


North Shore Consultancy:
Billy Grant and Yura Zazulin of North Shore Consultancy updated the Commissioners on
the building renovation. There have been three scheduling delays to date: asbestos,
elevator and generator; with the generator issue being the most critical with a September
delivery date. A tentative finished schedule date could be February 15, 2018. We have hit
the halfway point on the total project cost and change orders have amounted up to 6% of
total project cost year to date.


John Arata:
John Arata of Solar Finance Strategies LLC discussed with the Commission his company
and what they could do for MMLD. They are solar consultants and help develop sites that
could become solar farms so to speak. The Commission will get back to him at a future
date.
General Manager’s Report:
General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that the Building Renovation Project
is progressing along and things with GVW are going along as well. The upper garage and
switchgear room roof will need to be replaced separately.


The LED street light conversion is well on its way and moving along nicely. The main
streets will have a 150W bulb and the secondary streets will have a 70W bulb. The
fixtures have a 10 year warranty.


General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that the Wilkins stack issue still
hasn’t been resolved yet and that he is hoping Tim Kucab of Tighe & Bond can get the
DEP to change their thinking to resolve the issue once and for all.


General Manager Hadden reviewed and discussed with the Commission MMWEC’s
recent notification that the department’s Working Capital requirements have been
reviewed and an increase of $206,092.00 is required from the current level of
1,119,532.00 to $1,325,624.00 due to an increase in capacity prices for the forecasted
2018 monthly power bill costs. General Manager Hadden requested that MMWEC
transfer funds from the NEPEX Reserve Trust Account to fund the Working Capital
increase.


It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner Kowalik and
unanimously.


 Vote #2017-40
 Voted: To confirm the General Manager’s actions in authorizing the transfer from the
MMWEC NEPEX Reserve Trust Account of $206,092.00 to the Working Capital
Account as required by MMWEC.


Adjourn:
Chairman Hull requested a motion to adjourn.


Vote #2017 - 41
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
adjourn at 6:40 P.M. Unanimous
