           MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                          Tuesday June 27, 2017
                       RD
        40 Tioga Way, 3 Floor, Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                         Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Homan, Kowalik,
Maccario and Tumulty, General Manager Hadden, and Manager of Technical Operations
Coleman.


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:01 P.M.

21 Tioga Way:
Ted Moore attended the meeting to discuss his new solar array located at 21 Tioga Way.
There was a discussion on net metering. Mr. Moore expressed his concern that the basis
used for excess generation solar credits should be revisited. Mr. Moore will analyze the
array’s generation over the next six months and provide the Commission with an update
at that time.


Wilkins:
General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that the DEP has yet to approve
Wilkins Substation for the sound remediation. He will contact Tim Kucab of Tighe &
Bond requesting his assistance with the DEP approval process.


MMWEC Funding:
The Commission tabled the vote to authorize General Manager Hadden to sign the loan
agreement to fund the building renovation.


NREL Presentation:
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) of Denver, Colorado is a national
laboratory of the U.S. Department of Energy. NREL made a video conferencing
presentation of their Renewable Energy Optimization (REopt) platform analysis.
NREL will forward a proposal for scope of work.


Annual Pay Raises as of 7/1/2017:
General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that the non-union personnel would
receive a cost of living increase as of 7/1/2017, matching the percent increase in the union
contract. He also stated that he would perform personal reviews to determine increases
for the Manager of Finance & Customer Accounts, Finance Assistant and Business
Assistant.
Adjourn:
Chairman Hull requested a motion to adjourn.


Vote #2017 - 32
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
adjourn at 6:20 P.M. Unanimous
