           MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                       Wednesday, January 25, 2017
        40 Tioga Way, 3RD Floor, Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                        Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Homan, Kowalik,
Maccario and Tumulty, General Manager Hadden, Finance Manager Dugan, Finance
Assistant Barrett, Manager of Technical Operations Coleman


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:05 P.M.


Vote: #2017 - 3
Motion to adjourn to Executive Session under M.G.L. c. 30A, Sec. 21(a)(10), to discuss
Special Project 2015A, votes may be taken, and if they are votes will be released at a time
deemed appropriate by counsel. The Commission will reconvene in open session.
The Commission was polled: Maccario – Yes, Homan – yes, Kowalik - Yes,
Tumulty – Yes, Hull - yes. Executive session commenced at 4:06 PM.
The Commission reconvened to open session at 6:07 PM.


Vote: #2017 - 4
Special Project 2015A:
Commissioner Tumulty moved and Commissioner Kowalik seconded to accept the
recommendation of the General Manager and finds that it is prudent and in the best
interests of the Marblehead Municipal Light Department to enter into the PSA, in
substantially the form of the PSA presented to this meeting and made a part of the record
of this meeting; and authorizes the General Manager to execute and deliver the PSA, to
effectuate the transactions contemplated by this vote; and directs the General Manager to
cause the Marblehead Municipal Light Department to perform all of Marblehead
Municipal Light Departments obligations under the PSA; and authorizes the General
Manager to execute, accept or deliver or perform obligations for any additional
documents or agreements, and take any and all further actions the General manager
deems may be required to carry out, give effect to, and consummate the transactions
contemplated by this vote, subject to counsel’s final review. Unanimous




Vote #2017 - 5
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Kowalik to
adjourn at 6:10. Unanimous
.
