       MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                         Tuesday July 31, 2018
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner’s Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                      Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Homan, Johnson,
Maccario and Tumulty. General Manager Kowalik, Assistant Manager Hadden, Finance
Assistant Barrett


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 P.M.


Minutes:
Vote #2018 - 32
It was moved by Commissioner Homan and seconded by Commissioner Johnson to
approve the minutes of the June 28, 2018 meeting. Homan, Hull and Johnson in
favor; Tumulty and Maccario abstained



Financial Report:
Finance Assistant Barrett distributed to the Commission the May 2018 Operating
Statement and the June 2018 Accrued Operating Statement.


The Purchased Power Adjustment for July 2018 remains at .27 cents per Kwh for all
customers.



General Manager’s Report:

Wilkins:
General Manager Kowalik, Colin Coleman and Jack Ravagno met with the DEP on July
25, 2018. The DEP is requesting MMLD to take additional steps before any approval is
granted. MMLD was advised to hire a sound engineering company with DEP experience.
MMLD will hire Ascentech or an equivalent to acquire more sound data. Jack Ravagno
will begin day-time ambient sound level measurements and close-in plant run time
measurements of external station component noise levers for cooling tower fans, air
intakes, mufflers, stack and building. MMLD will also explore sound proofing vendors
as Acoustiblok, to test impacts on noise attenuation blankets and or wall panels.
80 Commercial Street:
MMLD is currently reviewing the remaining change order list including the exterior
mortar and brick repair and granite curbing. The Hammond Park restoration, perimeter
fencing, trench drain and frosted glass have been moved outside the scope of the building
renovation.


Green Communities:
MMLD will wait for the NREL report before making any decision to join the renewable
energy Trust.


Massachusetts Muncipal Vulnerability Preparedness:
The Town Planner, Becky Curran, informed MMLD that the funding for hardened
footing at Lead Mills has been approved.


LED’s
The line crew continues with the LED replacement program. There has been an increase
in shade requests due to the increased lighting from the LED’s. MMLD will update their
website with the process to request a shade accessory.

Vote #2018 - 33
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
adjourn at 5:10. Unanimous
