       MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                       Tuesday December 18, 2018
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner’s Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                      Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Maccario, Tumulty and
Johnson. General Manager Kowalik, Manager of Finance Dugan and Technical
Operations Manager Coleman.



Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:01 P.M.


Minutes:
Vote #2018-49
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Johnson to
table approval of the minutes of November 27, 2018 till the minutes of November 14,
2018 are revised and approved at the next Commission meeting. Hull, Johnson and
Tumulty in favor; Maccario abstained.


Review and discuss Open Meeting Law complaint filed to the Attorney General’s
office by Daniel Albert and potential response:
Chairman Hull distributed and discussed the complaint from Daniel Albert with the
Commission and that it will be forwarded to Kopelman and Page for legal review. We
have 14 business days to review and respond to the complaint. Also in attendance were
members from Sustainable Marblehead; Eileen Mathieu-Longview Drive and Petra
Langer-Bubier Road who confirmed and spoke in favor of General Manager Kowalik’s
comments, regarding DOER’s request to hold announcement of participation until DOER
announcement of the program at the November 14, 2018 Commission meeting.


Review and approve revised minutes from November 14, 2018 Commission meeting:
Chairman Hull will write up a revision to the original November 14, 2018 minutes which
will be written in and approved and voted on at the next Commission meeting.


Financial Report:
Manager of Finance Dugan distributed to and discussed with the Commission the October
2018 Operating Statement and the November 2018 Accrued Operating Statement.


The Purchased Power Adjustment for December 2018 remains at .27 cents per Kwh for
all customers.


Bad Debt:
Manager of Finance Dugan discussed the 2018 schedule of bad debts to be charged off
this year. He recommended to charge off the entire schedule totaling $19,003.59 and
noted that the department will continue collection efforts on the accounts listed on the
report.


Vote #2018-50
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
charge off the department’s 2018 schedule of bad debts in the amount of $19,003.59.
Unanimous.


General Manager’s Report:


Wilkins Plant Restart:
General Manager Kowalik discussed with the Commission that we have received a
$24,750 quote from QuietStar Industries for additional sound mitigation. The materials
have been ordered from the factory. The targeted completion date is January 17th
depending on the weather.


80 Commercial Street Renovation:
General Manager Kowalik discussed with the Commission an update on the renovations.
Total project capital expense to date is $8.7 million including PCOs. The north wall
repointing and waterproofing are now complete and has substantially reduced leaks
during moderate rainstorms. Items still to go include the upper garage three south facing
windows, substation air conditioning and sealing the concrete floor as well, lower garage
linemen sink, front entrance rails and lighting and EV charger installation. The
Commercial Street fencing and gate, Hammond Park fencing, north wall gutters and
garbage disposal in first floor kitchen also remain to be done. There is also possible
FEMA or MA CZM reimbursable improvements left such as a first floor hatch door to
the basement, a flood door for the east wall basement door and trench drain from the east
wall basement door to rainwater catch basin.


NREL Renewable Energy Optimization:
General Manager Kowalik discussed with the Commission an update on NREL. There
was a revised statement of work sent to NREL. There will be a meeting with the CAI
Tech for parcel mapping tomorrow, December 19th. The billing terms issue has been
resolved. There was a meeting on December 6th with all the faith based organizations in
Town and three have opted to participate in the program. They are Temple Emanuel, St
Stephens Church and St Michaels Church.


LED Lighting Program:
General Manager Kowalik discussed with the Commission the LED Lighting Program.
The DOER inspection has been completed by Neal Duffy on December 7th. Customer
complaints about the lights being too bright and wanting shades have continued and we
are working with them.


Discuss Holiday Hours:
Vote # 2018-51
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty, second by Commissioner Maccario to follow
the rest of the Town and grant MMLD employees the day off before Christmas and New
Years. Unanimous.


Vote # 2018-52
It was moved by Commissioner Maccario, second by Commissioner Johnson to adjourn
at 5:25 P.M. Unanimous.
