       MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                        Tuesday August 28, 2018
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner’s Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                       Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Johnson, Maccario and
Tumulty. General Manager Kowalik, Assistant Manager Hadden, Manager of Finance
Dugan and Technical Operations Manager Coleman.
Finance Assistant Barrett


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 P.M.


Minutes:
Vote #2018 - 34
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
approve the minutes of the July 31, 2018 meeting. Unanimous


Financial Report:
Manager of Finance Dugan distributed to the Commission the June 2018 Operating
Statement and the July 2018 Accrued Operating Statement.


The Purchased Power Adjustment for August 2018 remains at .027 cents per Kwh for all
customers.


General Manager’s Report:
NREL Study:
General Manager Kowalik will meet with the Town Administrator and Finance Director
to discuss the possibility of prepaying the NREL study.


Wilkins:
Ascentech will conduct another sound study; results to be forwarded to the DPU for its
review.


Building Renovation:
General Manager Kowalik will discuss the remaining PCO’s with North Shore
Consultancy before any approval is granted to GVW.
LED’s
The line crew continues with the LED replacement program. There has been an increase
in shade requests due to the increased lighting from the LED’s. MMLD will maintain a
list of customer requests which will be reviewed upon the conclusion of the LED
conversion.


Vote: #2018- 35
Motion to adjourn to Executive Session under M.G.L. c. 164, Sec. 47D, for protecting
trade secrets, confidential, competitively sensitive or other proprietary information
provided in the course of proceedings conducted pursuant to this chapter when such
municipal lighting plant board determines that such disclosure will adversely affect its
ability to conduct business in relation to other entities making, selling, or distributing
electric power and energy pursuant to this chapter; The Commission will not reconvene in
open session.
The Commission was polled: Hull– Yes, Johnson – Yes, Maccario – Yes, Tumulty –
yes . Executive Session commenced at 5:40 P.M.
