       MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                        Tuesday, May 22, 2018
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner’s Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                       Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Homan, Johnson,
Maccario and Tumulty. General Manager Kowalik, Asst. General Manager Hadden,
Finance Assistant Barrett and Manager of Technical Operations Coleman


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 PM

Reorganization:
Vote: #2018 - 26
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
appoint Michael Hull as Chairman. Unanimous

Vote: #2018 - 27
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
appoint Walter Homan as Vice-Chairman. Unanimous

Minutes:
Vote #2018 - 28
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
approve the minutes of the April 24, 2018. Hull, Homan, Maccario and Tumulty in
favor: Johnson abstained.


Financial Report:
Finance Assistant Barrett distributed to and discussed with the Commission the March
2018 Operating Statement and the April 2018 Accrued Operating Statement.


The Purchased Power Adjustment for May 2018 remains at .27 cents per Kwh for all
customers.


General Manager Report:


Wilkins Generation:
Eric Feiler of Peaker is requesting a $200,000.00 payment with a contract balance due of
$200,000.00.
Peaker will add acoustic enclosure noise attenuation around the two external NOC units
(horizontal catalysts). Installation is planned for early June. Peaker estimated the elbow
cap removal plus the two enclosures at $19,143.00. Peaker is anticipating MMLD paying
for 50%.
Building Renovation:
MMLD and GVW continue to work through a punch list. Some remaining items include
fire doors with glass inserts, exterior brick and mortar repair on front door side from 80%
to 100% and exterior waterproofing north side (back) wall.


Fence, Commercial St. storm drainage and Hammond Park will be separate projects.


Finance Assistant Barrett prepared a summary of the building renovation including the
GVW contract and change orders, Winter Street Architects contract and change orders
and all other material third party payments.


Hammond Park:
Short term fix will include moving the gravel from the grass area to perimeter, reseed,
and replace 6x6 wood walkway beams. MMLD will implement a longer term resiliency
measure such as adding a 2 foot high course of granite blocks while seeking state grant
funds.


NREL Contract:
Total contract will be $115,000.00. MMLD received an APPA deed award of
$57,500.00, 50% of contract. Statement of work to be performed is currently being
updated with an emphasis on solar.


Toby Reiley:
Tobey Reiley of 16 Waldron Street, presented to the Commission the implementation of a
Town-wide microgrid and a waste to energy service program working with Schneider
Electric, a global provider of innovative solutions for electric utilities, Dynamic Energy
Networks, owner and operator of energy infrastructure including microgrids and energy
distributed energy resources, and NautiCloud, provides communications for microgrids.
MMLD will reach out to the Health Department with the intent of having a joint meeting.


Adjourn:
Chairman Hull requested a motion to adjourn.


Vote #2018 -29
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Homan to
adjourn at 6:20 PM All in favor
