          MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                       Tuesday, January 30, 2018
                      RD
       40 Tioga Way, 3 Floor, Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                         Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Homan and Tumulty.
General Manager Hadden, Finance Assistant Barrett and Manager of Technical
Operations Coleman


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 P.M.
Vote #2018 - 4
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Homan to
approve the minutes of November 28, 2017. Unanimous


Vote #2018 - 5
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Homan to
approve the minutes of January 11, 2018. Unanimous


Building Renovation Update:
Billy Grant and Yura Zazulin of North Shore Consultancy, Mike Fields and Dana Weeder
of Winter Street Architects updated the Commissioners on the building renovation. The
GVW’s target milestone schedule has changed slightly as the current target date of
substantial completion and certificate of occupancy is slated for late February 2018.
Winter Street has begun the procurement process for blinds and furniture.


Financial Report:
Business Assistant Barrett distributed to the Commission the November 2017 Operating
Statement and December’s 2017 System Sales and Aged Receivables.

The Purchased Power Adjustment for January 2018 is .20 cents per Kwh for all
customers.


General Manager Report
General Manager Hadden reports that the new transformer at the Beacon substation is
complete and operational.

General Manager Hadden and Chairman Hull will meet with Peaker, Acentech, Tighe and
Bond and the DEP on Wednesday February 7, 2018 to discuss the Wilkins’ diesels
receiving approval for generation. The MMLD will process another payment of 400K
payable to Peaker on February 8, 2018.
MMLD will be scheduling the second winter electrical capacity test at Wilkins. ISO
requires two winter tests when the temperature is below 32.


General Manager Hadden informed the Commission that he would like to contract with a
tree company for trimming.


General Manager Hadden suggested that MMLD look into a professional cleaning
company for the new building.


Adjourn:
Chairman Hull requested a motion to adjourn.


Vote #2018 - 6
It was moved by Commissioner Homan and seconded by Commissioner Tumulty to
adjourn at 5:00 P.M. Unanimous
