           MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                        Tuesday, February 27, 2018
                       RD
        40 Tioga Way, 3 Floor, Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                         Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Homan, Maccario and
Tumulty. General Manager Hadden, Manager of Finance Dugan, Finance Assistant
Barrett and Manager of Technical Operations Coleman


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 P.M.


Vote #2018 - 7
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Homan to
approve the minutes of January 30, 2018. Hull, Homan and Tumulty in favor:
Maccario abstained


Caroline May of 54 Gregory Street attended the meeting to discuss painting a portion of
the back side of the garage at 80 Commercial Street. From her back yard, the back wall is
red and the right side is a light grey. She is requesting to continue the red so the grey is
not visible from the her back yard. General Manager Hadden will follow up to assure that
the painting is included in the renovation project.


Financial Report:
Manager of Finance Dugan distributed to and discussed with the Commission the
December 2017 Accrued Operating Statement, the December power costs, the January
2018 aged receivables and system sales.


The Purchased Power Adjustment for February 2018 remains at .20 cents per Kwh for all
customers.


Manager of Finance Dugan informed the Commissioners that Goulet, Salvidio &
Associates P.C. has completed the 2017 preliminary field work and will return in
May to complete the 2017 financial audit.


General Manager’s Report:
Building Renovation:
General Manager Hadden reports that the fire alarm system is now operational.
Currently, we are waiting on inspections for the elevator and sprinkler system. Dat
Nguyen of GVW produced an 11 page punch list as the renovation is nearing its
completion. The building’s generator is operational and will be serviced by Power
Products for $700.00 annually. Billy Grant and Yura Zazulin of North Shore Consultancy
are reviewing the legitimacy of a couple Winter Street Architects change orders for
additional services. General Manager Hadden is hopeful to start moving the operation
into 80 Commercial Street by the end of March.

Wilkins
General Manager informed the Commissioners that Peaker was on site for maintenance
due to the units being out of service while the Beacon transformer was replaced. George
Lipka of Tetra Tech will remodel the exhaust system due to the stacks having a different
diameter.


MMLD still needs to schedule the second winter electrical capacity test at Wilkins. ISO
requires a winter test when the temperature is below 32.


LED’s
Manager of Technical Operations Coleman informed that the Massachusetts Department
of Energy Resources has extended the deadline for LED completion to September 30,
2018 and that the project is on schedule.


General Manager Position:
Vote #2018 - 8
It was moved and seconded by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner
Maccario to create two screening subcommittees among the four Commissioners to
review applications for the General Manager’s position. Unanimous


Adjourn:
Chairman Hull requested a motion to adjourn.
Vote #2018 - 9
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
adjourn at 4:25 P.M. Unanimous
