       MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                        Thursday June 28, 2018
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner’s Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                        Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Homan, and Johnson.
General Manager Kowalik, Assistant Manager Hadden, Manager of Finance Dugan and
Technical Operations Manager Coleman.



Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 P.M.


Minutes:
Vote #2018 - 30
It was moved by Commissioner Homan and seconded by Commissioner Johnson to
approve the minutes of the May 22, 2018 meeting. Unanimous



Financial Report:
Manager of Finance Dugan distributed to and discussed with the Commission the April
2018 Operating Statement and the May 2018 Accrued Operating Statement.


The Purchased Power Adjustment for June 2018 remains at .27 cents per Kwh for all
customers.


General Manager’s Report:


Wilkins:
Peaker added “acoustic enclosure” noise attenuation around the two catalytic converter
units on the exterior of the plant. Second nighttime run was June 7th with confirmed lower
noise level.
Peaker check for $200,000 payment is issued and now held by MMLD.
Had a good meeting with Mass DEP June 27th. DEP requested a final report data at a July
16 meeting.
MMLD to acquire commercial sound measuring equipment.


80 Commercial Street:
MMLD and GVW continue to work through punch list. Change order expenses continue:
fire doors with glass inserts, exterior brick and mortar repair on front door side from 80%
to 100% and exterior waterproofing north side (back) wall.
Fence, Commercial Street trench drain, Hammond Park and Frosted glass in office will be
separate projects.
Hammond Park:
Short term fix still includes moving gravel from the grass area to perimeter, reseed, and
replace 6x6 wood walkway beams.
MMLD received quotes on work from three other vendors, did not specify the need for
prevailing labor wage and need clarification on prevailing wage issue.
Neighborhood group attended the meeting to express their thoughts/concerns about the
park, fence and parking issues.


Massachusetts Municipal Vulnerability Preparedness:
MMLD hoping to get help with state funding on the Lead Mills issue.
Coastal erosion at Lead Mills is identified as a top priority requiring repair by the Town.
Inadequacy of in-town power supply(Wilkins 5 MW equates to 20-25% of 2017 monthly
load peaks).


General Manager Kowalik reported to the Commission that Board Chair Mike Hull, Tech
Operations Manager Colin Coleman and he had a good meeting with State Representative
Lori Erhlich and State Senator Brendan Crighton regarding possible state funding for
Lead Mills and other MMLD topics.


Distribution Manager Jackson gave the Commission an update on the LED Street Light
Conversion Project and that we need to finish the all installations by end of September, to
receive the 50% state funding. The department plans to complete the installation by
September 31st.


Vote: #2018- 31
Motion to adjourn to Executive Session under M.G.L. c. 164, Sec. 47D, for protecting
trade secrets, confidential, competitively sensitive or other proprietary information
provided in the course of proceedings conducted pursuant to this chapter when such
municipal lighting plant board determines that such disclosure will adversely affect its
ability to conduct business in relation to other entities making, selling, or distributing
electric power and energy pursuant to this chapter; The Commission will not reconvene in
open session.
The Commission was polled: Homan – Yes, Johnson – Yes, Hull – Yes. Executive
Session commenced at 5:00 P.M.
