       MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                      Thursday September 20, 2018
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner’s Conference Room, Marblehead, MA
                                Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Homan, Johnson,
Maccario and Tumulty. Assistant General Manager Hadden, Manager of Finance Dugan,
Finance Assistant Barrett


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 12:00 P.M.


Lead Mills:
Vote #2018 – 36
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
sign a Memorandum of Agreement with the Town of Marblehead: The purpose of this
Agreement is to set forth the agreement among the parties as to the repair of the Lead
Mills Embankment and implementation of the design. The Selectmen will undertake the
costs and associated work of permitting and design of the repair. The Light Commission
will pay for the costs of implementing and constructing said repairs. Unanimous


Vote #2018 – 37
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
fund the Lead Mills Embankment repair and reconstruction for $126,500.00. The
Selectmen will forward all invoices for the construction of the repair of the Lead Mills
Embankment to the Light Commission who will forthwith pay said invoices. The Town
will undertake to obtain FEMA or MEMA assistance to reimburse and/or pay for the
expenses related to the repairs incurred by the Light Commission. Unanimous


Right of Ways:
Vote #2018 – 38
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
sign a Memorandum of Agreement with the Town of Marblehead and Water and Sewer
Commission in regards to the old rail corridor throughout the Town of Marblehead; The
purpose of this Agreement is to provide the parameters by which the parties will jointly
use the corridor, provide and maintain utilities to the residents and businesses in the
Town of Marblehead and provide an area for recreation, all in a cooperative manner that
respects the responsibilities and liabilities of each of the parties and respects the duty
owed to the respective customers and residents. Unanimous

Vote #2018 - 39
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
adjourn at 12:10. Unanimous
