       MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                        Tuesday, April 24, 2018
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner’s Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                         Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Homan, Maccario and
Tumulty. General Manager Kowalik, Asst. General Manager Hadden, Manager of
Finance Dugan, Finance Assistant Barrett and Manager of Technical Operations Coleman


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 PM


Minutes:
Vote #2018 - 23
It was moved by Commissioner Homan and seconded by Commissioner Tumulty to
approve the minutes of the March 27, 2018. All in favor


Minutes:
Vote #2018 - 24
It was moved by Commissioner Homan and seconded by Commissioner Tumulty to
approve the minutes of the April 4, 2018. All in favor


Financial Report:
Manager of Finance Dugan distributed to and discussed with the Commission the
February 2018 Operating Statement and the March 2018 Accrued Operating Statement.


The Purchased Power Adjustment for April 2018 remains at .27 cents per Kwh for all
customers.


General Manager Report:


Wilkins:
DEP Recertification process is set for Thursday night for a full load run and noise test.
ISO tightening market bidders “Pay for Performance” starts on June 1.
Wilkin station upgrades will continue and we will explore the use of remote dispatch.


Building Renovation:
Employees have moved back into 80 Commercial St with a full shakeout underway. A
checklist will be kept for any issues that need to be addressed by GVW.
The GVW chain linked fence will remain in place while we find a suitable replacement.


The Commissioner’s Conference Room will be used as an Emergency Response Center.


NREL Contract:
Rick Holland is in process of reviewing the NREL, National Renewable Energy
Laboratory, contract.
APPA, American Public Power Association, DEED award notice for 50% funding is due
May 10.


Green Communities:
MMLD is searching for an exception property to avoid the need for MA CEC billing on
all MMLD customers @ 1/20 of 1 cent/kwh.
MMLD will ask Neal Duffy, Green Communities Northeast Regional Coordinator, to
attend a MMLD meeting to provide information and guidance on Green Communities.


Town Warrant, Article 45:
General Manager Kowalik distributed the 2017 power source mix provided by MMWEC
which shows that MMLD is currently using over 70% carbon-free power sources.


The Commission reviewed the current wording of Article 45 100% renewable energy
goal.
The Commission supports the following language on Article 45: “To see if the Town will
go on record supporting a goal of using 100% carbon-free energy in Marblehead,
including in electricity production, building energy use and transportation, and moving
with fiscal responsibility and all deliberate speed to achieve this goal.”


Adjourn:
Chairman Hull requested a motion to adjourn.


Vote #2018 -25
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Homan to
adjourn at 5:20 PM All in favor
