       MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                      Thursday September 27, 2018
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner’s Conference Room, Marblehead, MA
                                Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Homan, Johnson,
Maccario and Tumulty. General Manager Kowalik, Finance Assistant Barrett, Manager
of Technical Operations Coleman, Manager of Distribution Jackson



Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 P.M.


Minutes:
Vote #2018 - 40
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
approve the minutes of the August 28, 2018 meeting. Hull, Johnson, Maccario and
Tumulty in favor; Homan abstained.


Vote #2018 - 41
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
approve the minutes of the September 20, 2018 meeting. Unanimous


Financial Report:
Finance Assistant Barrett distributed and discussed the July 2018 Operating Statement
and the August 2018 Accrued Operating Statement.


The Purchased Power Adjustment for September 2018 remains at .027 cents per Kwh for
all customers.


Infrastructure Priority:
Manager of Technical Operations Coleman and Manager of Distribution Jackson made a
detailed presentation prioritizing infrastructure replacements.


General Managers Report:
Wilkins:
Ascentech draft report was received today. Kowalik, Coleman and Ravagno will review
with resolution to follow.
Agreed to contract with Tighe and Bond to assist in filing all required reports for all EPA,
ISO and DEP reports for the coming year not to exceed $19,000.
80 Commercial street Renovation:
A couple GVW proposed change orders were completed by the Town and MMLD
including, rainwater drainage on Commercial St and Hamond Park restoration. Waiting
for quote on granite curbs and bricks for the walkways for Hamond Park.. The rainwater
drainage at basement door area and the North wall drainage outside the substation are to
be determined.
Remaining work to be completed by GVW as follows: Exterior pointing and
waterproofing, substation A/C, basement dehumidification, linemen sink in garage, snow
guards, gutter extensions and miscellaneous painting.
LED Street Light Program has been completed by the linemen.


EV’s
MMLD partnered with WBZ business Reporter, Anthony Silva, at the Marblehead’s
Farmer’s Market held September 8 to promote the MMWEC Nissan Leaf Program.


Lead Mills:
Work will commence next week on securing the integrity of the transmission lines
adjacent to the Lead Mills Embankment.


Vote #2018 - 42
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
adjourn at 5:30. Unanimous
