       MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                     Wednesday November 14, 2018
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner’s Conference Room, Marblehead, MA
                               Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Homan, Johnson and
Tumulty. General Manager Kowalik, Finance Assistant Barrett, Manager of Technical
Operations Coleman, Manager of Distribution Jackson,



Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 P.M.


Maccario:
The Commission expressed their condolences to Commissioner Maccario and his family
on the passing of his Father.


Street Lights:
The Commission discussed the street lighting policy and shading. The General Manager
will assess and make a determination on any policy changes.


Peabody Lane Street Light Issue:
Residents of Peabody Lane and Harbor Avenue attended the meeting to discuss the street
light and shading at 3 Peabody Lane and the public way light at the end of Peabody Lane.
Following public input, it was determined to remove the two street light shades located at
the 3 Peabody Lane and to replace the burnt out light at the public way with the intent to
limit the light at 5 Peabody Lane.

NREL Scope of Work:
There is a consensus among the Commissioners that the scope of work is what
department is looking for as part of the study and that the General Manager will finalize
language and forward to NREL.

DOER Smart PV Rebate Program

The Commission and the General Manager discussed participation in the DOER’s solar
rebate program.
Also part of the discussion were Sustainable Marblehead members;
Eileen Mathieu-Longview Drive, Petra Langer-Bubier Road, Jean-Jacques Yarmoff-
Lookout Court.
Also part of the discussion, Dan Albert- Leicester Road.


Public input was in favor of MMLD participation in the program. General Manager
Kowalik explained that at DOER’s request no announcement would be made until DOER
released the names of participating members. Sustainable Marblehead said that other
communities had announced their participation. It was again explained by G.M. Kowalik
that there would be no public announcement from MMLD per DOER request.
The Board decided to leave the decision to participate or not to the G.M. after
investigating financial implications. The Board would not take a public meeting vote due
to DOER’s requirement that MMLD hold participation announcements until DOER grant
announcement is made by DOER.


Vote #2018 - 45
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Johnson to
adjourn at 6:13. Unanimous
