       MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                        Wednesday June 26, 2019
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner's Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                         Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners - Chainnan Hull, Homan, Maccario and
Johnson. General Manager Kowalik and Manager of Technical Operations Coleman.



Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 P.M.


Minutes:
Vote #2019-15
It was moved by Commissioner Maccario and seconded by Commissioner Johnson to
approve the minutes of the May 29, 2019 meeting. Unanimous.



Meet with Richard Downer from FEMA regarding possible grants for reliability
upgrades:
General Manager Kowalik and Richard Downer from FEMA explained and discussed
with the Commission the FEMA damage mitigation funding program and how it works
and identify which utility repairs and potential improvements to the infrastructure of
MMLD going forward would be eligible for reimbursement.



Financial Report:
General Manager Kowalik distributed to and discussed with the Commission the April
2019 Operating Statement and the May 2019 Accrued Operating Statement.


The Purchased Power Adjustment for June 2019 remains at .27 cents per Kwh for all
customers.



General Manager's Report:


NREL Renewable Energy Optimization:
General Manager Kowalik discussed with the Commission an update on NREL. We just
need to collect some information on our end to move along in the process. We have
provided them with a parcel map of Marblehead properties for possible solar arrays. Next
step will be for them to run an initial model analysis and schedule a visit to review
selected site locations.
Other Renewable Energy Initiatives:
General Manager Kowalik infonned the Commission that there has been no change or no
further infonnation recently on the DOER MLD Solar Program and the DOER EVIP
Public Charging Program.



APPA Reliable Public Power Provider<RP3) Program:
General Manager Kowalik infonned the Commission that we have started documenting
and using outage information reports from APP A.



CbargePoint:
General Manager Kowalik informed the Commission that the ChargePoint EV charger is
technically live now in our parking lot. We just need to setup the parameters. We will be
using the residential rate plus a 1% fee for the public to use it. The ideal charge time will
be about four hours.


Adam Sandler/Netflix Movie Local Filming:
General Manager Kowalik informed the Commission that there is a Adam Sandler movie
being filmed in Town, which we have been notified of and just need to stay away from
doing any work in the area during the filming.



Union Negoiations:
General Manager Kowalik informed the Commission that he has met with the Union and
they have agreed in principle on a new 3 year contract and will be meeting again with
them later this week.



Vote #2019-16
It was moved by Commissioner Maccario and seconded by Commissioner Johnson to
adjourn at 6:07 P.M. Unanimous.
