      MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                      Wednesday March 27, 2019
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner’s Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                        Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Homan, Maccario,
Tumulty and Johnson. General Manager Kowalik, Manager of Finance Dugan and
Manager of Technical Operations Coleman.



Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:07 P.M.


Minutes:
Vote #2019-8
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Johnson to
approve the minutes of the February 25, 2019 meeting. Unanimous.



Financial Report:
Manager of Finance Dugan distributed to and discussed with the Commission the
December 2018 Final Operating Statement and the January 2019 Operating Statement.


The Purchased Power Adjustment for March 2019 remains at .27 cents per Kwh for all
customers.


Vote #2019-9
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Johnson to
approve the General Manager’s recommendation for distribution of yearend 2018
available cash as follows:
Pilot Payment to the Town Of Marblehead: $330,000.00
City of Salem In Lieu Of Tax Payment: $4,000.00
Unanimous



General Manager’s Report:


Wilkins Plant Restart:
General Manager Kowalik informed the Commission that we received the DEP Approval
to Resume Operation Letter on March 5, 2019. MMWEC now placing bids daily.
Strategy is to continue high bid prices to stay offline until hot summer days. We have not
been called to run yet. We need to consider autostart and remote dispatch upgrades if
viable. Need to develop a detailed emergency run plan.


80 Commercial Street Renovation Update:
General Manager Kowalik discussed with the Commission an update on the renovations.
Total project expense to date is $8.66 million without open PCOs. There is a March 28,
2019 meeting with all parties involved to update all. Finished items include the upper
garage three south facing windows, parking lot lighting and 1st floor garbage disposal.
The ChargePoint EV charger is partially installed, baseboard heating has been installed in
the meter room and the lower garage linemen sink is partially installed as well. The well-
water heat problems continue. Items remaining to be done include Commercial Street
fencing and gate, Hammond Park fencing, substation air conditioning, north wall extend
gutters to full length and entry rails. The FEMA or MA CZM reimbursable improvements
are currently on hold.


MMWEC Pooled Loan Financing:
General Manager Kowalik discussed with the Commission an update on the MMWEC
Pooled Loan Financing. MMWEC provides a pool of funds for members to borrow on,
the total pool is around $27 million of which MMLD is in for $4.5 million on the 80
Commercial Street Renovation Project. The MMWEC closing date for the financing was
March 22, 2019.


NREL Renewable Energy Optimization:
General Manager Kowalik discussed with the Commission an update on NREL. NREL
has agreed to our terms on the signed agreement two weeks ago. We just need to collect
some information on our end to move along in the process.


Other Renewable Energy Initiatives:
General Manager Kowalik informed the Commission that there has been no change or no
further information on the DOER MLD Solar Program.
General Manager Kowalik informed the Commission that there has been some
information on the DOER EVIP Public Charging Program. The program is for smart
chargers for EVs to be placed at up to nine locations. This is a three year grant program
with two chargers at each location. The grant is for $12,000 per station.


Glover Landing-records request status:
General Manager Kowalik informed the Commission that he has been looking over the
Glover Landing records request from Nicholas Mango and Elizabeth Garthe-Elmwood
Road, Swampscott and that we gave an easement map only and will not go any further
into it.
General Manager Kowalik also informed the Commission that we are all done with the
records request from Daniel Albert as well.


Vote #2019-10
Motion to adjourn to Executive Session: To discuss strategy with respect to litigation if
an Open Meeting may have detrimental effect on the litigating position of the public body
and the Chair so declares. The Commission will not reconvene in open session.
The Commission was polled: Tumulty-Yes, Maccario-Yes, Johnson-Yes, Homan-
Yes, Hull-Yes. Executive Session commenced at 5:11 P.M.
