       MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                       Wednesday May 29, 2019
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner’s Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                        Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Johnson, Maccario and
Tumulty, General Manager Kowalik and Finance Assistant Barrett


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 P.M.

Reorganization:
Vote: #2019 - 11
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
appoint Michael Hull as Chairman. Unanimous

Vote: #2019 - 12
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
appoint Walter Homan as Vice-Chairman. Unanimous

Minutes:
Vote #2019-13
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
approve the minutes of the March 27, 2019 meeting. Unanimous.


Financial Report:
Finance Assistant Barrett distributed to and discussed with the Commission the February
and March 2019 actual operating statements and the March and April 2019 accrued
operating statements.


The Purchased Power Adjustment for May 2019 remains at .27 cents per Kwh for all
customers.


General Manager’s Report:


Wilkins Plant Restart:
General Manager Kowalik will invite MMWEC to the June or July meeting to discuss the
viability of converting the Wilkins generator into a remote dispatching unit.


80 Commercial Street Renovation Update:
General Manager Kowalik discussed with the Commission an update on the renovations.
The well-water heat problems continue. Items remaining to be done include Commercial
Street fencing and gate, Hammond Park fencing, substation air conditioning, north wall
extend gutters to full length and entry rails. The FEMA or MA CZM reimbursable
improvements are currently on hold.


NREL Renewable Energy Optimization:
General Manager Kowalik discussed with the Commission an update on NREL.
MMWEC will provide NREL with the hourly load data for 2018 for the four substations,
contractual obligations-generation for 2018, hourly LMP for 2018, incentives and markets
for RE+storage and an estimate of cost to interconnect PV from 60 acre parcel in Salem.
MMLD will provide NREL with the ESRI based arc-GIS system at parcel level indicating
land and building areas available for RE development and a spreadsheet of land and
building areas available for RE development.


Other Renewable Energy Initiatives:
General Manager Kowalik informed the Commission that there are two customers
currently in the que for the DOER MLD Solar Program.


FEMA Reimbursement:
MMLD continues to work with a FEMA representative to recover expense from the
March 2018 storms.


Vote #2019-14
Motion to go to Executive Session to discuss confidential or proprietary information
regarding activities by a governmental body as energy supplier, if an open session will
adversely affect conducting business relative to other entities making, selling or
distributing energy. The Commission will not reconvene in open session.
The Commission was polled: Tumulty-Yes, Maccario-Yes, Johnson-Yes, Hull-Yes.
Executive Session commenced at 5:45 P.M.
