       MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                       Monday February 4, 2019
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner's Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                     Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners - Chairman Hull, Homan, Maccario,
Tumulty and Johnson. General Manager Kowalik.



Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 P.M.

Minutes:
Vote #2019-1
It was moved by Commissioner Maccario and seconded by Commissioner Tumulty to
approve the minutes of the December 18, 2018 meeting. Hull, Johnson, Maccario and
Tumulty in favor; Homan abstained.

Review and approve amended minutes of November 14, 2018 meeting due to Open
Meeting Law complaint rded by Daniel Albert to the Attorney General's office:
Chairman Hull read correspondence from Attorney General's office regarding the
November 14, 2018 meeting minutes Open Meeting Law violation complaint from Daniel
Albert-Leicester Road. Chairman Hull read the amended minutes and asked for a motion
to approve said minutes into the public record.

Minutes:
Vote #2019-2
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Johnson to
approve the minutes of the November 14, 2018 meeting. Hull, Homan, Johnson and
Tumulty in favor; Maccario abstained.

Minutes:
Vote #2019-3
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Johnson to
approve the minutes of the November 27, 2018 meeting. Hull, Johnson and Tumulty in
favor; Homan and Maccario abstained.




Financial Report:
The Commissioners received the November 2018 Operating Statement and the
December 2018 Accrued Operating Statement.
The Purchased Power Adjustment for January 2019 remains at .27 cents per Kwh for all
customers.



General Manager's Report:

Wilkins Plant Restart:
General Manager Kowalik discussed with the Commission that the sound mitigation is
nearing completion from QuietStar Industries and that we are looking into a final letter
review to DEP for startup approval.

80 Commercial Street Renovation Update:
General Manager Kowalik discussed with the Commission an update on the renovations.
Finished items include the upper garage three south facing windows and parking lot
lighting. Items remaining to be done include Commercial Street fencing and gate,
Hammond Park fencing, substation air conditioning and entry rails. There was discussion
on weather or not the Department should handle remaining items to be done internally
going forward and get away from continued involvement with G.V.W and Winter Street
Architects.

NREL Renewable Energy Optimization Study:
General Manager Kowalik discussed with the Commission an update on NREL. The
billing terms have been finalized between MMLD and NREL. There has been a finalized
statement ofwork with NREL. We have secured cooperation of six faith based
organizations to participate in the study as well as the Clifton Approval Association.

EV Program:
General Manager Kowalik discussed with the Commission the EV Program. The DOER
has grant programs for EVs with a deadline ofMarch 181h. MMLD will look into possible
grants for chargers for placement in public parking areas around town which are to be
determined. DOER is also encouraging the public to reach out to private organizations
regarding having chargers on their property. There are also grant possibilities for private
entities.
Eileen Mathieu-Longwood Drive ofSustainable Marblehead inquired about the
possibility ofa mailing regarding the promotion ofEVs and MMLD's incentives with the
town's tax bills. Commissioner Tumulty will follow up with the Tax Collector.




Freedom Of Information Act Requests:
General Manager Kowalik informed the Commission that we have two pending Freedom
of Information Act Requests. One is from Daniel Albert-Leicester Road who has
requested information regarding how many clicks it takes on our website to get any
information on solar and EV programs and also how many "unique" IP addresses have
shown up. The other request is from Nicholas Mango and Elizabeth Garthe-Elrnwood
Road, Swampscott. who has requested information on MMLD engagement/involvement
with Glover Landing properties from 1964-present. MMLD has fulfilled the obligation
for Daniel Albert's request and is currently working to fulfill the Mango/Garthe request.

Vote #2019-4
It was moved by Commissioner Twnulty and seconded by Commissioner Johnson to
adjourn at 6:15 P.M. Unanimous.
