          MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                          Tuesday June 30, 2020
        GoTomeeting: https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/482259709
              Access Code: 482-259-709; (872) 240-3412

                                       Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Homan, Maccario,
Johnson and Wolf. General Manager Kowalik, Finance Manager Barrett and Manager of
Technical Operations Coleman.


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:10 P.M.


Reorganization:
Chairman Hull thanked Commissioner Tumulty for his six years of service as an MMLD
Commissioner. Chairman Hull also welcomed recently elected Commissioner Lisa Wolf.

Reorganization:
Vote: #2020 - 15
It was moved by Commissioner Homan and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
appoint Michael Hull as Chairman. Unanimous

Vote: #2020 - 16
It was moved by Commissioner Maccario and seconded by Commissioner Johnson to
appoint Walter Homan as Vice-Chairman. Unanimous

Minutes:
Commissioner Wolf requested to amend the NREL section of the May 28, 2020 minutes
by adding “and to increase renewables in MMLD’s energy portfolio” at the end of the
first sentence and added the last sentence “A summary of the NREL report will be made
available on MMLD’s website. The May 28, 2020 minutes will be approved at the July
meeting. Unanimous


Financial Report:
Finance Assistant Barrett forwarded to the Commission via electronic files of the April
2020 operating statement, the May 2020 accrued operating statement and the April 2020
power costs.


The Purchased Power Adjustment for June 2020 is 3.1 cents per Kwh for all customers.
Citizen’s Proposed Articles:
Commissioner Hull solicited the Commissioner’s opinions with respect to taking
positions on citizen sponsored articles. The general consensus was that there was no
need to unilaterally object to taking a position on articles and that the commission would
address articles if deemed necessary.


General Manager’s Report:
Covid-19:
General Manager Kowalik updated the Commissioners on the Covid-19 response more
specifically that distribution and technical services are returning to full staff on Monday
July, 6. There will be PPE and disinfectant available to each employee. The main lobby
will be reopened to public on Monday, July 6. There will be weekly fogging of the plant
and trucks. MMLD will continue to follow the Marblehead DOH and Mass guidelines.

Village 13
General Manager updated the Commissioners on the Village 13 upgrade more
specifically the cancellation of the bid award to Virginia Transformer for two (2)
18/24/30 MVA 22.9 – 13.2kV power transformers and the switchgear contract to Eaton
for $1,174,787. The cancellation was due to SESD infrastructure under the right of way
that was to be used for the delivery of the transformers. General Manager Kowalik will
consult with SESD engineering to discuss their sewer main replacement and formulate a
plan for the delivery of the transformers before sending out the invitation for bids. The
storage containers will need to be moved to another location to permit the necessary
space for battery storage. MMLD will discuss the school departments unused property
on Tioga Way which in currently zoned unclassified/industrial.


Causeway Lights:
General Manager Kowalik informed the Board that MMLD will be replacing the poles
and lights on the causeway. The lights will be replaced with LED’s a sample to be
installed next week. The poles will remain at the same height, but made with material
that can better withstand the continuous exposure to saltwater.


Bell/Gerry School:
The General Manager Kowalik and Technical Operations Manager Coleman have been in
discussion with the general contractor on how to supply the new building. The location
for the distribution and whether it will be underground or overhead are to be determined.
Vote #2020-17
Chairman Hull requested a motion to go into Executive Session to meet with a mediator
regarding any litigation or decision; provided that any decision to participate in mediation
shall be made in Open Session and the parties disclosed and no action shall be taken with
respect to the issues involved without deliberation and approval of the action at an Open
Session.
Not to return to Open Session.


It was moved by Commissioner Homan and seconded by Commissioner Johnson
to enter into executive session at 5:00 P.M. Hull- yes, Homan – yes, Johnson – yes,
Maccario – yes, Wolf – yes.
