          MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                         Thursday April 16, 2020
        GoTomeeting: https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/482259709
               Access Code: 482-259-709; (872) 240-3412

                                         Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Homan, Maccario,
Johnson and Tumulty. General Manager Kowalik, Finance Manager Dugan, Finance
Assistant Barrett and Manager of Technical Operations Coleman.


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 1:06 P.M.


Minutes:
Vote #2020-9
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
approve the minutes of the March 5, 2020 meeting. Unanimous


Financial Report:
Finance Assistant Barrett forwarded to the Commission via electronic files of the January
and February 2020 operating statements and power costs.


The Purchased Power Adjustment for April 2020 is 3.1 cents per Kwh for all customers.


Vote #2020-10
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Johnson to
approve the General Manager’s recommendation for distribution of yearend 2019
available cash as follows:
Pilot Payment to the Town Of Marblehead: $330,000.00


General Managers Report:


Covid-19
GM Kowalik informed the Commission of the measures being taken by MMLD to
mitigate the spread of the virus among MMLD employees and the public which includes
rotating schedules for all 22 employees, social distancing within the plant and the closure
of the offices to the public. He will continue to closely monitor the pandemic and adhere
to guidance provided form Governor Baker’s Administration.
Village 13 Substation:
GM Kowalik informed the Commission due to unforeseen project site concern and the
impact of the Coronavirus pandemic on normal department operations, the Marblehead
Municipal Light Department is electing to postpone the Village 13 project at this time.


Tree Survey:
GM Kowalik informed the Commission that MMLD contracted with Cicoria Tree
service to identify and document tree/wire conflicts on selected high voltage circuits,
including recommendations for tree removal and pruning to reduce the likelihood of
service interruptions due to for switchgear and transformers. We anticipate that we will
rebid later this year with the expectation of a 2021 delivery.


Causeway Light Poles:
GM Kowalik informed the Commission that the new causeway light poles and fixtures
will be shipped shortly. He will contact Town Administrator Silva to discuss splitting
the cost.


NREL:
GM Kowalik will coordinate a late April meeting between MMLD, NREL and MMWEC
to discuss NREL’s preliminary results which utilized NREL’stool called REoptto
evaluate the techno-economic report for the potential of adding PV, wind, and battery
storage to offset MMLD’s energy costs.


Vote #2020-11
It was moved by Commissioner Homan and seconded by Commissioner Johnson to
adjourn at 2:03 P.M. Unanimous.
