       MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                      Wednesday January 29, 2020
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner's Conference Room, Marblehead, MA

                                      Minutes

Present for the meeting were: Commissioners - Chairman Hull, Homan, Maccario,
Johnson and Tumulty. General Manager Kowalik, Manager of Finance Dugan, Finance
Assistant Barrett and Manager of Technical Operations Coleman.



Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:00 P.M.


Minutes:
Vote #2020-1
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Homan to
approve the minutes of the December 18, 2019 meeting. Hull, Homan, Johnson and
Tumulty in favor; Maccario abstained.



Financial Report:
Manager of Finance Dugan distributed to the Commission the November 2019
Operating Statement and the December Accrued 2019 Accrued Operating Statement.


The Purchased Power Adjustment for January 2020 remains at .27 cents per Kwh for all
customers.


MMWEC Voting Representative & Alternates:


Vote #2020-2
It was moved by Commissioner Maccario and seconded by Commissioner Tumulty to
designate the following MMWEC voting representative and alternates pursuant to Article
III, Section 6 of the Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company by­
laws(MMWEC), as revised and amended, and section 3(b) of Chapter 775 of the acts of
1975: Joseph Kowalik-Voting Representative, Michael Hull-Alternate 1, Michael
Tumulty-Alternate 2, Michael Maccario-Alternate 3, Walter Homan-Alternate 4, and Karl
Johnson-Alternate 5. Unanimous.


Town Electric Vehicle:


Vote #2020-3
It was moved by Commissioner Tumulty and seconded by Commissioner Maccario to
approve a transfer to the Town of $22,294, to be taken from the MMLD 2019 Operating
Surplus, with the understanding that the Town will deposit the funds into a Strategic
Electrification account. It is further understood that these funds will be used to purchase a
2019 Chevy Bolt Electric Vehicle, for use by the Town Building Department.
Unanimous.


General Managers Report:
Village 13 Substation Upgrade Pla·n:
General Manager Kowalik informed and discussed with the Commission the Village 13
upgrade plan to include battery integration and onsite storage and that we are evaluating
options to expand the substation perimeter as well.


DOT PleasantNineNilJage Streets Proiect:
General Manager Kowalik informed the Commission that we are not involved in the
DOT's Pleasant/VineNillage Streets Project for a new redesign and restaurant there.


Power Lines Tree Trimming Proiect:
General Manager Kowalik informed and discussed with the Commission that we are
scoping out some necessary tree trimming around the power lines in town with Arborist
Ben Staples of Cicoria Tree Service Company for an estimated $10,000.


Beacon Hill Update:
General Manager Kowalik informed the Commission that there is a lot going on lately on
Beacon Hill with the Governor, the Senate and the House regarding the Municipal Light
Departments in the state and will report back to the Commission at a future meeting.


NREL Update:
General Manager Kowalik informed the Commission that the NREL draft results are in
and received and we will plan on a public meeting to review them.


Vote #2020-4
Motion to go to Executive Session to discuss trade secrets or confidential or proprietary
information regarding activities by a governmental body as energy suppliers, municipal
aggregator, or energy cooperative, if an Open Session will adversely affect conducting
business relative to other entities making, selling, or distributing energy. The Commission
will not reconvene in Open Session.
The Commission was polled: Maccario-Y es, Tumulty-Yes, Johnson-Yes, Homan­
y es, Hull-Yes.
Executive Session commenced at 4:21 P.M.
