       MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                         Tuesday July 6, 2021
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner’s Conference Room, Marblehead, MA
     GoTomeeting: https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/482259709
              Access Code: 482-259-709; (872) 240-3412

                                         Minutes
Present for the meeting were:
MMLD Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Frechette, Homan, Johnson and Wolf, General
Manager Kowalik, Finance Manager Barrett


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:30 P.M.

Vote #2021-17
Motion made by Commissioner Homan and seconded by Commissioner Johnson to
approve the minutes of April 27, 2021, May 27, 2021 and June 8, 2021. Hull, Homan,
Johnson and Wolf in favor; Frechette abstained.


Reorganization:

Chair Vote: #2020 - 18
It was moved by Commissioner Homan and seconded by Commissioner Wolf to appoint
Michael Hull as Chairman. Unanimous



Vice Chair Vote: #2020 – 19

It was moved by Commissioner Frechette to appoint Commissioner Wolf as Vice-
Chairman: motion was not seconded

It was moved by Commissioner Hull and seconded by Commissioner Johnson to appoint
Walter Homan as Vice-Chairman. Homan, Hull, Johnson in favor; Frechette and
Wolf abstained

Rate Presentation:
Dawn Lund, Vice-President of Utility Financial Solutions, LLC, made a presentation on
basic rate concepts specifically the importance of financial projection, cost of service and
rate designs. General Manager Kowalik will follow up with Dawn to coordinate a rate
study.
Attorney Nick Scobbo
Attorney Scobbo made a brief presentation on the roles and responsibilities of the
Commissioners and General Manager. Attorney Scobbo’s presentation focused on the
origins of M.G.L. c. 164, the powers and duties of the Commission, business judgement
rule, restrictions and prohibitions for MMLD Commissioners under M.G.L. c. 164,
conflict of interest law under M.G.L. c. 268A, bribes, gifts and gratuities, other
compensation, self-dealing and nepotism, restrictions on appointments and elections and
general standards of conduct.,



General Manager’s Report:
General Manager Kowalik updated the Commissioners on 2015A specifically the
removal of a 200,000-gas oil tank, the elimination for an onsite ammonia tank for a
cleaning agent for the catalytic converter and the further development of green hydrogen
as a viable fuel source in the future.
General Manager Kowalik reviewed the department’s top 5 priorities as follows:
    1. Village 13 substation upgrade of transformers and switchgear
    2. Begin the development of a new site for a safe and secure place to store
      distribution system assets.
  3. Implement fall 2021 tree trimming program
  4. Complete a cost-of-service study & rate review
  5. Work with MMWEC to continue power portfolio transition to renewable energy
      sources
Commissioner Wolf suggested additions to the list of MMLD priorities to which General
Manager Kowalik responded that he would send his list of priorities to the
Commissioners and accept suggested additions.


Vote #2021-20
Motion to go to Executive Session to discuss trade secrets or confidential, competitively-
sensitive or other proprietary information provided in the course of activities conducted
by a governmental body as an energy supplier when such governmental body, municipal
aggregator or cooperative determines that such disclosure will adversely affect it's ability
to conduct business in relation to other entities making, selling or distributing electric
power and energy. Not to return to Open Session.
Roll call vote;
Frechette-yes
Homan- yes
Hull-yes
Johnson-yes
Wolf-yes
Executive Session commenced at 7:00 PM
