       MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                      Tuesday November 30, 2021
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner’s Conference Room, Marblehead, MA
     GoTomeeting: https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/482259709
              Access Code: 482-259-709; (872) 240-3412


                                        Minutes
Present for the meeting were:
MMLD Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Frechette, Homan, Johnson and Wolf, General
Manager Kowalik


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:34 PM

Minutes:

Vote #2021-36
Moved by Commissioner Johnson and seconded by Commissioner Wolf to approve the
minutes of November 2, 2021. Unanimous


Barbara Warren, Coastal Zone Management Project Manager:
Barbara Warren, Project Manager of Coastal Zone Management Grant, made a detailed
presentation of the coastal resilience implementation, expanded anlysis and design for
Marblehead Harbor, Commercial St. Plant and adjoining public property. Barbara
displayed graphs and pictures with predictions of coastal shallow flooding for 2030 and
2050. She looked at three strategies to address potential impacts: Natural Resource with
an emphasis on ecosystem health and resilience, Protection with an emphasis on
protection of current infrastructure and use, and Transform with an emphasis on a balance
of use now with a vision of potential transformation of future flood prone areas. Barbara
will follow up with the Commission to address near term flood proofing readiness


Matt Ide, MMWEC Executive Director, Energy & Financial Markets:
Matt Ide joined the meeting to discuss the road map to 2050 net zero. Matt showed
MMLD’s portfolio position, currently having 38% non-carbon emitting electrical
Sales for 2020. Each MLP must adopt a policy with a minimum requirement of 50%
non-carbon emitting by 2030, 75% by 2040 and net-zero by 2050. Matt presented a
graph showing a forecast portfolio composition by resource including expected contract
extensions and new renewable resources.
Strategic Plan:
Commissioner Wolf and Commissioner Frechette disseminated a document and template
survey to be used to establish the departments strategic plan. As follows:

                                           Internal
Strengths                                            Weaknesses
   ●   High customer approval                          ●   Transparency
   ●   Reliability/responsiveness                      ●   Leadership development
   ●   Professional line crew                          ●   Staffing constraints
   ●   Rates lower than IOUs                           ●   On-boarding for new commissioners
   ●   Strong financials                               ●   Employee communications
                                                       ●   Career path development (?)
                                                       ●   RPS baseline
                                                       ●   Meter limitations
                                                       ●   Succession plan for critical employees
                                                       ●   Marketing/Branding products and services


Opportunities                                        Threats
   ●   Coordination of key initiatives with Green      ●   Regulatory and legislative uncertainty
       Marblehead Committee; School Committee          ●   Limited regional renewable opportunities
   ●   Essex County MLP partnership for regional       ●   Transmission interruption/Extreme storm
       collaboration and building generation               events
   ●   Community engagement/education                  ●   Mainline vulnerability
   ●   New Transmission from Swampscott                ●   Changing demand: strategic electrification;
   ●   Battery storage for flattening peak                 efficiency
   ●   Heat pump contractor training                   ●   Cybersecurity
   ●   Update website                                  ●   Spot market vulnerability
   ●   Customer survey                                 ●   Debt; interest rate change; retirement plan
   ●   Strategic electrification                           funding
   ●   V2G, demand response, distributed resources     ●   Limited transmission from outside NE
   ●   Access to clean energy, resiliency grants
   ●   Access to financing (MMWEC)
   ●   Expand reach of MMLD through strategic
       partnership with infrastructure contractors
   ●   Develop in-house capabilities for strategic
       initiatives
   ●   Rate change


                                           External
Evaluation of opportunities
The Commissioners and General Manager agreed to use the SWOT analysis, (strengths,
weaknesses, opportunities and threats to develop the departments strategy.)


General Manager’s Report:


Marblehead Green Choice:

General Manager Kowalik disseminated a new green choice motion as follows:
A motion to offer a new “Marblehead Green Choice” opt-in charge on MMLD
customer’s monthly bills.


Customers who opt-in to this charge agree to pay an agreed-upon incremental amount for
one year, with an option to annually renew. The annual total of the agreed-upon monthly
payments represents an estimated payment amount required for MMLD to certify that the
customer’s energy use has been 100% Carbon-free over the prior year. MMLD will
accomplish that by retiring Berkshire Wind RECs or purchasing and retiring comparable
RECs on behalf of the customer.
The customer’s monthly Green Choice payment will be a fixed amount for one year,
based on:
       (1) the customer’s average monthly energy usage in the prior year (in KWH), and
       (2) the estimated carbon-free percent of MMLD’s portfolio in the prior year, as
            defined by then current Mass DOER/DEP regulations.
       (3) Actual prices of Mass Class 1 REC otherwise sold quarterly by MMWEC on
            behalf of Marblehead and other Berkshire Wind Co-op-member MLDs.


In the event of an annual estimated payment shortfall, assuming the participating
customer has made 12 timely payments, MMLD will pay the shortfall amount. Any
customer surplus payments will be applied to the purchase of additional RECs.


All customers making 12 Green Choice payments in a year will receive written
confirmation from MMLD that their prior year energy usage was in fact 100% Carbon-
free and to be included in “Green Choice Customer” recognition on the MMLD website.
Customers can opt-out of Green Choice Customer recognition.


After a lengthy discussion, the Commission decided to table the new proposal until the
rate study is completed and implemented.


Project 2015A:
General Kowalik updated the Commissioners on the 2015A Project. MMWEC will
Close on December 1. $61 million was raised and the rate came under the pro forma
assumption. Green hydrogen planning is continuing.


Vote #2021-38
It was moved by Commissioner Wolf and seconded by Commissioner Homan to adjourn
at 6:25 P.M. Unanimous.
