       MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                        Thursday May 27, 2021
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner’s Conference Room, Marblehead, MA
     GoTomeeting: https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/482259709
              Access Code: 482-259-709; (872) 240-3412

                                        Minutes
Present for the meeting were:
MMLD Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Burke, Homan, Johnson and Wolf, General
Manager Kowalik


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:30 P.M.

Minutes:
Table the vote to approve the minutes of the April 27, 2021 meeting to allow
Commissioner Wolf to add edits to the 2015A Peaking Plant discussion.


Peak Alerts:
The commissioner’s discussed ways to educate their customers on the importance of
reducing their energy consumption during the usual peak hours of 4PM and 8PM., with
the intent to reduce capacity and transmission charges.
Commissioner Wolf suggested that MMLD uses the Town’s Code Red System to alert
customers for peak alerts while General Manager Kowalik considers the logistics of using
the customer’s contact information within MMLD’s billing software Northern Data
Services. The Commission’s consensus was to use the Code Red System until an
alternative notification procedure is deployed. The Commissioner’s also suggested that
General Manager Kowalik send out an educational flyer with an emphasis of reducing
consumption during peak hours. Customers will receive the flyer via monthly billing and
the flyer will be posted on the website.
General Manager Kowalik informed the Commissioner’s that Kevin Kelly, GM of
Groton, has been studying time of use, and will request that he attend a future meeting to
discuss his experience and analysis. Time of use analysis will be incorporated in any rate
studies.


Battery Storage:
General Manager Kowalik and Commissioners discussed residential battery storage and
will work on an interconnect agreement that will address the logistics of this new
technology.
Coastal Zone Management Grants:
General Manager Kowalik, Town Planner, Becky Curran, and Barbara Warren will apply
for State Grants to address the potential flood threat to Town properties including the 80
Commercial St. Plant. Any grant award will go towards the funding of a flood door at
bottom level of the plant which is used for storage and a study of future flooding from sea
level rise and storm surge.


2015A Peaking Plant:
General Manager Kowalik informed the Commission that MMLD will hold a public
hearing in Town and MMWEC will be conducting their own public meeting in Peabody
to discuss the importance of Project 2015A Peaking Unit, its location and any alternatives
to the project.

Vote #2021-13
Motion to go to executive session to conduct contract negotiations with nonunion
personnel: Commission will return to open session.
Roll call vote;
Burke-yes
Homan- yes
Hull-yes
Johnson-yes
Wolf-yes


Executive Session commenced at 6:08
Open Session reconvened at 6:28


Project 2015A:
General Manager Kowalik requested the Commission to take a vote to reaffirm the vote
taken at the January 2017 meeting. Commissioner Wolf asked that the Commission
tables the vote until the next scheduled meeting as none of the public participants in the
open session returned subsequent to the executive session.


Vote #2021-14:
It was moved by Commissioner Homan and seconded by Commissioner Burke to adjourn
at 6:35 P.M. Unanimous.
