       MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                         Tuesday July 27, 2021
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner’s Conference Room, Marblehead, MA
     GoTomeeting: https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/482259709
              Access Code: 482-259-709; (872) 240-3412

                                         Minutes
Present for the meeting were:
MMLD Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Frechette, Homan, Johnson and Wolf, General
Manager Kowalik, Finance Manager Barrett


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:30 P.M.

Kevin Kelly – GM Groton Municipal:
Mr. Kelly made a detailed presentation of Groton’s time of use (TOU) rates offered by
Groton Municipal. Groton municipal has been testing a pilot program called 4/40, where
a group of customers would be charged 4 cents between 8PM – 4PM and 40 cents
between 4PM – 8 PM. Groton’s average usage between 4PM – 8PM is very consistent
around 21%. The conclusion was a good number of the customers changed their patterns
enough to move the average usage down by 3.3% which would result in approximately
$522,000 per year in capacity and transmission costs. Groton is going to try to increase
their program’s participation to see if similar results are achieved using a larger group.

Vote #2021-21
Motion made by Commissioner Homan and seconded by Commissioner Wolf to approve
the minutes of June 17, 2021. Unanimous


Vote #2021-22
Motion made by Commissioner Homan and seconded by Commissioner Wolf to approve
the minutes of July 06, 2021, subject to amendments suggested by Commissioner
Frechette. Unanimous


Michael Vigeant GreatBlue Research:
Mr. Vigeant presented a proposal to potentially conduct quantitative research on behalf of
MMLD, by obtaining feedback from the opinions of MMLD’s customers and employees.
This survey would be used by MMLD to better understand their employees and
customers satisfaction levels and to develop a strategic roadmap for future success.


General Manager’s Report:
General Manager Kowalik updated the Commissioners on 2015A specifically the
removal of a 200,000-gas oil tank, the elimination for an onsite ammonia tank for a
cleaning agent for the catalytic converter and the further development of green hydrogen
as a viable fuel source in the future.
General Manager Kowalik reviewed the department’s top 5 priorities as follows:
   1. Village 13 substation upgrade of transformers and switchgear
   2. Begin the development of a new site for a safe and secure place to store
      distribution system assets.
   3. Implement fall 2021 tree trimming program
   4. Complete a cost-of-service study & rate review
   5. Work with MMWEC to continue power portfolio transition to renewable energy
      sources


Commissioner Wolf suggested additions to the priority list of MMLD as follows:
“The mission of Marblehead Municipal Light Department (MMLD) is to provide
reliable power as we work towards a goal of a carbon free portfolio, while maintaining
competitive rates in a safe working environment for MMLD employees and its
customers.”


Goals and strategies:
  1. Provide reliable power
          a. Village 13 substation upgrade of transformers and switchgear
          b. Implement fall 2021 tree trimming program


   2. Decarbonize power supply
         a. Work with MMWEC to continue power portfolio transition to renewable
            energy sources
         b. Develop PV (+ storage) on school buildings, Thompson Meadow


   3. Maintain competitive rates
          a. Complete a cost-of-service study & rate review
          b. Flatten demand curve / reduce peak demand
          c. Add utility-scale battery at Village 13


   4. Provide safe working environment
         a. Begin the development of a new site for a safe and secure place to store
             distribution system assets.


Additional goals:
   5. Improve customer service and education:
           a. Conduct Customer Survey
           b. Update https://marbleheadelectric.com/ website
Develop education and outreach materials
MMLD will schedule a joint meeting with the Marblehead school department to discuss
the Tioga way land transfer and other possible joint renewable projects.

Vote #2021-24
It was moved by Commissioner Johnson and seconded by Commissioner Homan to
adjourn at 6:35 P.M. Unanimous.
