         MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                        Tuesday June 17, 2021
          Marblehead High School, 2 Humphrey St, Marblehead
        GoTomeeting: https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/482259709
              Access Code: 482-259-709; (872) 240-3412

                                  Minutes
Present for the meeting were:
MMLD Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Burke, Johnson and Wolf,
General Manager Kowalik, Manager of Technical Operations Coleman

Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 6:30 P.M.

The sole purpose of this meeting is to discuss the 2015A Peaking Plant
located off Pulaski Street, Peabody, MA.

Chairman Hull made open remarks to explain the public hearing process.

General manager Kowalik’s full presentation is available at
https://www.marbleheadelectric.com/ under the Project 2015A tab and
remarks from Kurt James, Board Chair of Sustainable Marblehead are as
follows:

                 Remarks of Kurt James, Board Chair
                         Sustainable Marblehead
                               June 17, 2021
Thank you, Joe, for your presentation and for hosting this information
session.
Sustainable Marblehead repeatedly requested that this meeting be set up as a
panel discussion, so that we could present the data we have gathered on
battery storage options being used in other parts of the country to address
peak capacity. As that request was denied, we are presenting our position on,
and questions about the Peabody Peaker Plant, also known as Project 2015A,
now, during the public comment session.

Sustainable Marblehead recognizes MMWEC’s obligation to provide
adequate power to meet peak demand. At the same time, the cost and
capacity of battery storage has changed dramatically during the six years
since the project was first designed in 2015.
Batteries now provide electricity for up to six hours of peak demand. The
cost of battery storage has dropped dramatically and continues to drop. The
federal regulations relating to capacity are also changing, with FERC, the
Federal Energy Regulatory Committee, requiring that ISO-New England
submit plans by the end of this month as to how it will include battery
storage in its capacity market.
As you all know, Massachusetts recently passed a comprehensive climate
bill which includes MMLD and other municipal light departments in its
emission standards, and Governor Baker signed the Roadmap to 2050
climate bill in March. We cite these to demonstrate that many aspects of
energy production, including sources of electricity, regulation and
technology, are evolving rapidly.
We request that MMWEC further pause this project and hire an independent,
nationally recognized organization, such as NREL (the National Renewable
Energy Lab) to study the current status and projected future status of battery
storage in capacity markets, and to look at the combined forces of the
regulatory environment, the forward capacity market, the rate that renewable
energy will come online in Massachusetts, and the role that the Roadmap to
2050 legislation will play. Depending on what this study finds, we ask that
Project 2015A be updated to reflect the current market and technology.
The Peabody Peaker Plant is projected to cost more than $84 million dollars,
with Marblehead responsible for 4.4% of the cost, and it is scheduled to run
until 2050. We feel that such a significant investment in our future should be
carefully considered and should reflect the current technology and legislative
and regulatory landscape. For example, a hybrid model that includes battery
storage along with the proposed diesel and gas fueled plant, might be a
consideration.
We feel that in addition to a third-party analysis, the Marblehead Municipal
Light Department and MMWEC should also embark on immediate
systematic efforts to reduce peak demand. These efforts will require
financial commitments from MMWEC to help customers install smart
devices and thermostats, insulate their homes and offices, and supply rebates
to consumers who participate. This full-scale effort on the part of a utility is
sometimes called a “virtual peaker” because if business and residential
electricity use can be controlled during peak events, remotely and at a utility
scale, the peak can be significantly reduced.
Sustainable Marblehead remains committed to supporting MMLD and
MMWEC in their ongoing efforts to supply reliable, affordable energy while
they explore every possible avenue to make that energy as clean as possible.
I respectfully request that these remarks be added to the official record of
this meeting.

Vote #2021-16
It was moved by Commissioner Wolfe and seconded by Commissioner
Burke to adjourn at 8:35 P.M. Unanimous.
