       MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                       Tuesday February 22, 2022
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner’s Conference Room, Marblehead, MA
     GoTomeeting: https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/482259709
              Access Code: 482-259-709; (872) 240-3412

                                        Minutes
Present for the meeting were:
MMLD Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Frechette, Homan, Johnson and Wolf, General
Manager Kowalik


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:30 PM

Minutes:

Vote #2022-05
Motion made by Commissioner Johnson and seconded by Commissioner Homan to
approve the minutes of the February 1, 2022 meeting. Unanimous


Lauren McCormack, Executive Director Marblehead Museum:
Lauren McCormack attended the meeting to petition the Commission to place a sign at
Hammond Park of the ship, Desire, built in Marblehead in 1636, the 120-ton Desire is
commonly believed to be one of the first ships to bring Enslaved People into the
Massachusetts Bay Colony. After discussion, General Manager Kowalik, Chairman Hull,
Selectmen Grader and Lauren McCormack will schedule a meeting to discuss the timing
and location for the sign. The Commission will vote at their March meeting.


General Manager’s Report:

Marblehead Green Choice:
General Manager updated the Commission on the Green Choice policy as follows:
Any interested rate payer will have to enroll by signing a form with the following
verbiage: This optional (opt-in) rate is offered to residential customers who want their
household electricity purchases to be 100% carbon-free.

These specific terms apply to this rate:
1. The definition of “carbon-free” electricity used here is defined as “non-carbon
   emitting” electricity in the “Act for Creating a Next-Generation Roadmap for
   Massachusetts Climate Policy”, Massachusetts Session Law, Acts of 2021, Section
   33.
2. The rate is currently set at $0.022 per kilowatt-hour of residential electricity
   consumed. The rate is billed monthly, in addition to the standard MMLD Residential
   Rate A (MDPU-66). The rate will be listed as a separate line item on your monthly
   electric bill. Based on Marblehead residents’ average monthly electricity usage of 662
   kilowatt-hours/month, the average monthly Go Green Now! rate due would be
   $14.56.
3. On a quarterly basis the revenue collected under this rate will be used to retire
   Berkshire Wind Mass Class 1 Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) that would
   otherwise be sold by MMLD. Additional RECs may be purchased and retired by
   MMLD, as needed.
4. Customers who enroll in this rate agree to participate for a minimum of one year.
5. On an annual basis MMLD will review all customer revenue collected under this rate.
   Any revenue shortfall caused by quarterly variations in REC prices will be paid by
   MMLD general revenue. Any customer overpayments will be used to retire addition
   RECs. If changing REC prices require the adjusting of this rate, the adjustment will
   be made with 60 days public notice.
6. An enrolled customer facing financial hardship may contact MMLD at 781-631-5600
   to opt-out of this rate for their current and all future billing periods. Any enrolled
   customer may opt-out for any reason after one year.
The new rate will be filed with DPU this week with a retroactive opt-in date to February
1, 2022.


Tree Trimming:
General Manger Kowalik informed the Commission that the department is now accepting
tree bids with said bids being opened on March 10, 2022, 10:00AM, 80 Commercial St,
Marblehead, MA, Commissioner’s Conference Room, 2nd Floor.


2050 Roadmap to Net Zero:
General manager Kowalik informed the Commission that the department would focus on
three goals during the transition to net zero:
   1. Net zero power supply portfolio by 2050
   2. Distribution system upgrades to carry increased load from electrification of
       transportation and home heating and appliances
   3. Increase distribution system resiliency to climate change, extreme weather and
       rising sea level
The Commission will discuss specific goals for its carbon free power portfolio at a future
meeting, including a discussion of accelerating the decarbonization timeline to 2040, as
specified by the Green Marblehead Committee.


Vote #2022-6
It was moved by Commissioner Johnson and seconded by Commissioner Homan to
adjourn at 6:35 P.M. Unanimous.
