Light Commission 09/08/22 meeting minutes
To:             Light Commission: Commissioners
                Light Department: J. Kowalik, General Manager, M. Barett, Business Manager
From:           Jean-Jacques Yarmoff, Secretary
Date:           September 23, 2022
Re:             Commission Meeting September 8, 2022



A quorum being present, Light Commission Chair Mike Hull opened the meeting at 5:12 pm, the meeting
being held both in person and with remote access available to the public.

Participated in meeting:
        Commissioners:           Hull and Yarmoff in person
                                 Frechette, and Wolf through remote link
        Light Department:        General Manager Joe Kowalik.

Village 13 Substation Upgrade Project

On July 26, 2022, the Light Commission approved the bid from Myers Controlled Power for the new
Village 13 switchgear for $4,347,292 subject to MMLD receiving satisfactory answers to our remaining
bid response questions (vote 2022-26). The General Manager reported that an agreement has been
reached with Myers on all open questions, the most important of which was to remove switchgear
construction price escalators from the agreement. This has caused adjustments to the project’s interim
milestone payments. These payment schedule adjustments enables Myers to purchase more materials
and components earlier in the contract. To manage the risk associated with the payment schedule, we
wish to require Myers purchase a performance bond that protects MMLD in the event Myers is not able
to deliver us the completed product. They have received a quote for $49,191 for a 100% performance
bond on the project cost. By agreement Myers will directly pass this cost on to MMLD. The General
Manager requested the board to authorize this additional expense that will secure MMLD’s early
payments and are tied to a 60 week performance.
A question was asked as to the trigger of the bond: While the 60 week time-frame is mentioned, the
trigger will not be a delay of a few days or a few weeks, rather it will be the non-performance of MCP
and their inability to deliver the switch gear that will be the trigger.
Motion: to have MMLD purchase a performance bond on the construction of new Village 13 switchgear
equipment by Myers Controlled Power LLC at a cost not to exceed $50,000.
Vote #2022-31 Moved by Commissioner Yarmoff and seconded by Commissioner Wolf. Unanimous.


Modification of rate structure

On August 30, 2022, the Light Commission reviewed the rate structure change proposed by UFS. The
General Manager requested the Commission formal approval to implement the rate structure changes
presented across the 6 customer classes. Residential rate changes were presented in Table 1 of the
minutes of that meeting, other customer classes proposed changes are detailed in the slides.

                                                                                                         1/2
A clarification was requested as the presentation by UFS included projection of rates several years in
advance, in 2025 and 2026. The General Manager explained that energy charges in the future will have
to be evaluated in view of the then existing conditions in the energy markets, and the approval
requested concerns the residential rate changes proposed in Table 1 of the minutes of the 8/30
meeting, and the similar changes for other classes described in the slides presented during the meeting.
The General Manager proposed the following motion: Move to implement the new utility rates
proposed for the six rate classes reviewed by UFS on August 30, 2022, for implementation beginning in
January 2023. The rate classes include: residential, small commercial, large commercial, off-peak water
heating, domestic storage heating and private area lighting. MMLD will coordinate multiple marketing
methods to communicate these rates to our customers, including inserts in monthly invoice mailings,
MMLD website, MMLD Facebook page, town newspaper legal notice, and public information meeting(s).
Vote #2022-32 Moved by Commissioner Wolf and seconded by Commissioner Frechette. Unanimous.


Metering Software update / migration to the cloud

MMLD purchases both meters and associated metering software and wireless data communications from
Nexgrid. The company has introduced a new upgrade, v 4, available to MMLD at no charge as part of the
existing contract, where MMLD uses the Nexgrid software in a SaaS agreement. (MMLD pays an annual
software license fee per meter that includes upgrades.) Support for Version 3 will be discontinued in the
future. MMLD has met with Nexgrid several times in the past few weeks to make plans for this upgrade.

Historically their software has run on MMLD servers located 80 Commercial Street. For the first time
Nexgrid is offering a cloud-based version of their software, and is strongly encouraging all customers to
make the move for increased reliability and cybersecurity. Nexgrid mentioned to MMLD that the great
majority of their ~40 customers have moved to the cloud, and that the Google cloud service costs are
passed through to their clients with low/no added margin. A cloud configuration for MMLD is estimated
to cost $8,700 annually. If we stay with the current SaaS service, we would need to upgrade one server,
rough estimate of $4-5K.

A discussion occurred on the merits of migrating to the cloud vs implementing the SaaS v4 version. How
long does the existing contract last, can it cover a cloud option? Can the requested modifications to
implement ToU-enabling measurements be part of the v4, and if so, what is the timing and the cost for
these modifications? The IT director of NexGrid has indicated that the modifications should be
technically possible.

The discussion was tabled until a review of the existing contract, which the General Manager and
Commissioner Yarmoff proposed to do after the meeting.



The agenda for the meeting having been exhausted, a motion was made to adjourn and adopted
unanimously at 6:05 pm.




                                                                                                      2/2
