          Notes of Light Commission – Select Board
                  Joint meeting, September 14, 2022

To:             Select Board: Select Board Members
                Light Commission: Commissioners
                Town Adminstrator: T. Kezer, Light Department: J. Kowalik, General Manager, M. Barett,
                Business Manager
From:           Jean-Jacques Yarmoff, Commission Secretary
Date:           September 20, 2022

Re:             Commission Meeting and Select Board joint meeting of September 14, 2022




Participated in meeting:
        Select Board Members: Belf-Becker, Grader, Noonan, Nye, Singer;
        Commissioners: Frechette, Hull, Johnson, Wolf and Yarmoff;
        Town Administrator: Thatcher Kezer.

Meeting: Light Commission Chair Mike Hull opened the joint session of the Select Board and the Light
Commission meeting, on September 14, at 7:10 pm. Commissioners Frechette, Wolf and Yarmoff,
together with Chair Hull were present in person at Abbot Hall. Light Commissioners joined a Select
Board meeting started at 7:00 pm, with Chair Grader, and Select Board members Belf-Becker, Noonan,
Nye, Singer in person at Abbot Hall with remote access available to the public. The joint Select Board –
Light Commission meeting was called for the Select Board members and the Commissioners to elect a
replacement to fill the seat of Commissioner Johnson until the next town elections, seat vacant since his
resignation on July 13 for health reasons.

Candidates: Eight of ten candidates who submitted a letter of interest prior to September 9 participated
in the meeting and were considered for the position: MM. P. Barnett, J. Full, C. Hardy, M. Harrington,
I. Pedan, A. Smith, T. Veilleux, J. Zisson.

Process: Each candidate gave a brief introductory statement and answers to questions from the
Commission and Select Board Members. Candidates who had not yet participated were invited to wait
outside the room. After all the candidates were heard, Commissioners and Select Board Members voted
by roll call. A first vote resulted in a tie. The candidate who received the least votes was then withdrawn
from consideration. A second round of voting resulted in a 5 – 4 vote majority.

Vote results: Frechette, Noonan, Singer, Wolf and Yarmoff voted for Smith, while Belf-Becker, Grader,
Hull and Nye voted for Veilleux.

Adam Smith will be seated as Light Commissioner, after being sworn in and until the next Town
Elections, when town residents will be able to elect a Commissioner for the remaining of the tenure.

                                                                                                        1/1
