       MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                       Tuesday February 1, 2022
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner’s Conference Room, Marblehead, MA
     GoTomeeting: https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/482259709
              Access Code: 482-259-709; (872) 240-3412


                                          Minutes
Present for the meeting were:
MMLD Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Frechette, Homan, Johnson and Wolf, General
Manager Kowalik


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:30 PM

Minutes:

Vote #2022-03

Motion made by Commissioner Wolf and seconded by Commissioner Homan to approve
the minutes of November 30, 2021 and January 4, 2022. Unanimous


Marblehead Green Choice:
Sam Bennett of 24 Central Street, Marblehead provided the following:
"There are now a growing number of municipalities which offer the option of 100%
carbon free energy. Several people I know have elected it. Marblehead should be a leader
in this area. I suspect there are many in town who feel the way I do. I understand that
Marblehead rate payers are a diverse group, and you have many factors to consider.
However, there should be no further delay in taking bold, aggressive action on climate
change wherever we can. We have waited too long and are starting to see the tragic
results of our inaction. The changes we need to make will be inconvenient, somewhat
costly and disruptive; but they will be worth it, given the alternative. Individual citizens
need a way to take positive action, and this is one very significant way for them to do so.
I applied for this option several months ago. I respectfully request that you approve my
request to purchase 100% carbon free energy at this month's meeting. Thank you very
much for your consideration.” Sincerely, Sam Bennett

General Manager Kowalik asked for a motion to offer a new “Marblehead Green Choice”
opt-in charge on MMLD customer’s monthly bills.
Customers who opt-in to this charge agree to pay an agreed-upon monthly incremental
amount, with an option to opt-out. The annual total of the agreed-upon monthly payments
represents an estimated payment amount required for MMLD to certify that the
customer’s energy use has been 100% Carbon-free over the prior year. MMLD will
accomplish that by retiring Berkshire Wind RECs or purchasing and retiring comparable
RECs on behalf of the customer.
The customer’s monthly Green Choice payment will be a fixed amount for one year,
based on:
       (1) the customer’s monthly kWh energy usage, and
       (2) the estimated carbon-free percent of MMLD’s portfolio in the prior year, as
            defined by then current Mass DOER/DEP regulations.
       (3) actual prices of Mass Class 1 REC otherwise sold quarterly by MMWEC on
            behalf of Marblehead and other Berkshire Wind Co-op-member MLDs.


All customers making 12 Green Choice payments in a year will receive written
confirmation from MMLD that their prior year energy usage was in fact 100% Carbon-
free and to be included in “Green Choice Customer” recognition on the MMLD website.
Customers can opt-out of Green Choice Customer recognition.


Moved by Commissioner Johnson and seconded by Commissioner Wolf to implement
the Green Choice Policy as stated above, subject to General Manager Kowalik filing with
the DPU, said policy to be reviewed six months from initiation. Unanimous


MMWEC Project 2022A:
General Manager Kowalik informed the Commission that the MMWEC Board voted at
their January meeting to approve up to a 400 MWH energy/100 MW power flow battery
storage project to be located at the MMWEC facility in Ludlow, MA with the intent to
bid the asset into the ISO capacity market. MMWEC is currently assessing other MLD’s
interest. This project will increase MMLD’s ownership in capacity assets.


Vote #2022-04:
Motion to go to Executive Session to discuss trade secrets or confidential, competitively-
sensitive or other proprietary information provided in the course of activities conducted
by a governmental body as an energy supplier, municipal aggregator or a cooperative
determines that such disclosure will adversely affect its ability to conduct business in
relation to other entities making, selling or distributing electric power and energy.
Not to return to Open Session.
Roll call vote;
Frechette-yes
Homan - yes
Hull-yes
Johnson-yes
Wolf-yes


Executive Session commenced at 5:40
