       MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSION
                        Tuesday March 29, 2022
80 Commercial Street, Commissioner’s Conference Room, Marblehead, MA
     GoTomeeting: https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/482259709
              Access Code: 482-259-709; (872) 240-3412

                                       Minutes
Present for the meeting were:
MMLD Commissioners – Chairman Hull, Frechette, Homan, Johnson and Wolf, General
Manager Kowalik


Chairman Hull opened the meeting at 4:30 PM

Minutes:

Vote #2022-07
Motion made by Commissioner Wolf and seconded by Commissioner Frechette to
approve the minutes of the February 22, 2022 meeting. Unanimous


Tree Contract:
Vote #2022-08
Motion made by Commissioner Homan and seconded by Commissioner Frechette to
approve the expenditure of $250,000 - $300,000 for utility tree trimming services, as
defined in the competitive bid process that concluded March 10, 2022. Such expenditure
is subject to the General Manager Kowalik’s approval of the final contract terms with the
winning bidder. Unanimous


Village 13:
General Manager Kowalik has been holding weekly meetings with PLM Engineer, Mike
Barrett, MMLD Engineer, Colin Coleman, MMLD Distribution Manager William
Jackson and former MMLD General Manager, Bob Jolly to discuss replacing Village 13
transformers and switchgear. The new design has been reviewed and will be sent out to
bid late April. The new design includes 2 transformers 18/24/30 MVA, 8 primary
switchgear, 8 secondary switchgear and employee safety features including remotely
accessible switchgear cabinets and vacuum sealed breakers. The expected delivery time
for switchgear is 72 weeks and 76 weeks for the transformers.
MMWEC Project 2022A:
Matthew Ide, Matt Ide, MMWEC Executive Director, Energy & Financial Markets joined
the meeting to inform the Commission that the MMWEC Board voted at their January
meeting to approve up to a 400 MWH energy/100 MW power flow battery storage
project to be located at the MMWEC facility in Ludlow, MA with the intent to bid the
asset into the ISO capacity market. Matt Ide made a detailed presentation of MMLD’s 5-
year power portfolio broken down by capacity, transmission, energy and other. In
addition, he discussed MMLD’s capacity obligation and composition by carbon
noncarbon classification.


UFS Rate Update:
General Manager Kowalik needs to follow up with the Commissioner’s questions from
UFS’s rate presentation at the January 4, 2022 meeting, with the hope of holding a public
hearing on rates in May.


Marblehead Green Choice:
General Manager Kowalik updated the Commission on the Green Choice policy. There
are currently 11 customers enrolled. Enrollment forms are available online at
www.marbleheadlectric.com and in the office located at 80 Commercial Street.


Assistant General Manager:

Commissioner Wolf proposed the possibility of creating an Assistant General Manager
position. She proposed the following responsivities for the position:
   1. Develop a robust communications strategy to educate customers, including
      developing a customer survey instrument and establishing a baseline of customer
      satisfaction and expectations
   2. Promote and track strategic electrification among customers
   3. Apply for grants to support decarbonization infrastructure and other resiliency and
      decarbonization measures
   4. Coordinate with local municipal and commercial entities to grow Town EV
        charging infrastructure
   5. Plan for solar installations on schools and other municipal properties
   6. Promote adoption of demand-response appliances
   7. Establish Tariff-on- Bill program
The Commissioners also suggested to include IT, engineering, legislation, and
regulations.
General Manager Kowalik will retain a headhunter to create a more formal job
description and guide us through the process of creating the new position.


Vote #2022-09:
Motion to go to Executive Session to discuss trade secrets or confidential, competitively
sensitive or other proprietary information provided in the course of activities conducted
by a governmental body as an energy supplier, municipal aggregator or a cooperative
determines that such disclosure will adversely affect its ability to conduct business in
relation to other entities making, selling or distributing electric power and energy.
Not to return to Open Session.

Roll call vote;
Frechette-yes
Homan - yes
Hull-yes
Johnson-yes
Wolf-yes


Executive Session commenced at 6:34
