Light Commission December 19, 2023 meeting minutes
To:             Light Commission: Commissioners
                Light Department: J. Kowalik, General Manager
From:           Jean-Jacques Yarmoff, Secretary
Date:           January 2, 2024
Re:             Commission Meeting December 19, 2023



A quorum being present, Chair Wolf brought the meeting to order at 4:07 pm. The meeting was held in
person and with remote internet access, both available to public participation. A recording of the
meeting is made available to the public at the following link.

Participated in meeting:
     Commissioners:         Commissioners Frechette, Hull, Smith, Wolf and Yarmoff participated in person.
     Light Department:      General Manager, J. Kowalik; Business Manager, Matt Barrett; Manager of
                            Technical Operations, Colin Coleman.

Marblehead Land Acknowledgment declaration was read by Commissioner Frechette.

Approval of minutes from previous meetings
Vote #2023-47           Motion to approve the minutes of the 11/21 Commission public meeting was
                        Moved by Commissioner Smith, seconded by Commissioner Frechette. Unanimous.

Comments from the Public Following yesterday’s storm, Mary Stuart and Christine Nuccio of Damays
Way sent a card red by Commissioner Hull to express their appreciation of the “efficient and quick job”
MMLD’s “linemen did yesterday cutting away a tree, disconnecting wiring, removing a broken telephone
pole and installing a new one. We had electricity back within hours. … You/we are fortunate to have
such capable and efficient men working for our town.”

Outstanding items
Dual meters / analogue meters retirement. Rate filing has been sent to DPU. Notice will be published in
the local newspapers this week and next. The document explaining the retirement of analogue meters is
to be drafted, but measurement equipment to test has been received. The Department is moving ahead
on all these items.
Recruiting firm/new hires: The General Manager signed a contract with the firm Stanton Chase for help
recruiting for the Engineering project manager and the IT positions. Commissioner Frechette, who has a
lot of experience, will work with the General Manager off line to assist with the process. The General
Manager will make the final call on any hiring.
With regards to the third position, the General Manager will meet on Thursday with town officials who
believe they have candidates: although he was ready to post the job description, it is possible that there
is a pool of satisfactory candidates wanting to work for the town already. The position description has
not changed significantly from a year ago: the General Manager will circulate the position description to
the Commissioners.
Duracell proposal and discussions: have not moved forward since last meeting.

                                                                                                      1/15
Update on recent storm: the General Manager commented that in spite of high winds, tree damage was
not as severe in Marblehead as it could have been (see page 6): the tree trimming program has borne fruit.
The storm has caused a lot of damage in New England, with more mutual aid requests yesterday than
ever received, from Municipal plants in every state. Marblehead crews were working all day in
Marblehead yesterday, but many requests came from Maine at end of day, requesting 20 linemen,
crews with trucks and supervisor requested. Distribution Manager Greg Chane is leading a crew from
Marblehead: they left on Tuesday morning and may well be working until Saturday in Maine.

Report of Manager of Technical Operations
Colin Coleman, Manager of Technical Operations, presented the diverse activities of the Engineering and
Technical Services team he leads: the slides are presented from page 7; the readers interested in the
details of the multiple projects managed by the team are invited to listen to the details presented during
the meeting.
In addition to the manager, the team is composed of:
    − Jack Ravago, Senior Maintenance and Operations Specialist, responsible for substation
      maintenance, distribution system switching, and the operations of the Wilkins Plant;
    − Didi Rubano, Lead Meter Technician, responsible for the Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI)
      which includes all meters and communication systems;
    − Paul Surette, Maintenance and Operations Specialist, operator of the Wilkins Plant and in charge
      of its maintenance, as well as that of the MMLD fleet and the 80 Commercial Street facilities;
    − Nate Kobialka, Advanced Electric Utility General Technician, a trainee in the team working on
      Substations, Distribution System switching and Wilkins Plant operator.
The team works on different types of projects. Some are
MMLD initiated projects which include
- large infrastructure projects: Village 13 substation upgrade, High Voltage lines upgrade (line 1304
replacement), as well as the evaluation of sites for utility scale energy storage systems;
- regular maintenance of systems: e.g. seasonal Capacitor Bank management (to control power quality),
weekly safety checks of all substations;
- AMI system management, improvements and trouble-shooting; and
- unplanned emergency interventions when necessary (recently: Water and Sewer Department pumping
station alarms and low voltage alert, setting up generator and troubleshooting underground service).
Customer initiated projects such as expanding power supply to large projects and many residential ones:
- industrial customer Blue Anchor Millworks, with tri-phase 300 kVA 277/480 V transformer installation;
- Large new residential projects at 80 Tioga Way with 48 residential units;
- Mariner Way with large 1MVA transformer, multiple pole relocation, CT installations and new wiring;
- Town Department of Public Works building at 100 Tower Way; or
- evaluating the impact of a 100 kW solar PV array at Temple Sinai.
Substations Operations and Maintenance, Transformers
Substation maintenance includes switchgear testing, replacing meters, changing breakers as needed.
MMLD works with UPG, a substation maintenance company (that also periodically tests the aging Village
13 transformers). Every maintenance operation means careful switching, de-energizing to both allow
intervention on de-energized systems while maintaining electric service to customers. Safety is paramount
and needs constant attention reinforced by training.
Management of the inventory of transformers is important, as lead time for ordering is still very long.
Wilkins Operation and Maintenance
The Wilkins Plant was recently the subject of an unscheduled DEP (Departement of Environmental
Protection) compliance inspection, which seems to have gone well. As MMLD operates the plant in the
                                                                                                     2/15
Capacity market, ISO-NE checks the readiness to operate in cold weather conditions: the ISO-NE Winter
Readyness Survey was submitted in December, and MMLD submits a monthly GADS reportWhen any
situation causes an inability to run the Plant (which can be lack of appropriate staffing) an Outages
Report is necessary, which take a substantial amount of work. Every year, a summer audit is also
necessary.
MMLD has also taken the decision to participate in the new Inventoried Energy Program which is an ISO-
NE incentive program to store more fuel on site, in order to be able to generate when called upon during
prolonged cold spells. During a cold period defined by ISO-NE, MMLD will measure between 7 and 8 am
the amount of fuel available at Wilkins and report to ISO-NE, which can calculate how long the various
generators can run. MMLD participation brings in a monetary contribution of $3,500 for each event, and
about 10-12 events are expected to be called by ISO-NE during the winter.
IT / communication
In the interest of time, this aspect of the Technical Services Team work was not reviewed.

General Manager Report
Winter Reliability Report
The General Manager explained the essence of the guidance from ISO-NE and MMWEC with regards to
the expected reliability of electric supply for this winter. The long range forecast is a 50/50 probability
that peak load this winter will reach 20,269 MW (1% higher than last year), while the weather is likely to
be warmer and wetter than usual, driven by a strong El Niño oscillation. ISO-NE has launched a new
Inventoried Energy Program to gain better visibility in the fuel supply of plants engaged in the capacity
market over the winter, and Marblehead will participate as discussed above. The summary of reserve
electric capacity in New England under different weather scenario is shown from page 10: the takeaway
message is that unlike last year, there is no particular reliability concern of load shedding this year. This
could change with extended period of cold weather and possible unplanned generation and
transmission outages. (Hence the increased emphasis of ISO-NE on ensuring that generating units that
are in the capacity market can run if called upon.)
Budget
MMLD is ending 2023 in good financial conditions. The latest forecast for bulk power purchase pricing is
not yet available from MMWEC. MMLD is also continuing to try and hedge some of the open market
power purchase positions. Based on the November forecasts, MMLD forecasts a 2024 Operating Budget of
$21.696M (p 11). The main expenses after power purchase are Payroll and Benefits, and Depreciation. The
final 2024 operating budget with new items compared to 2023 will be provided at the next meeting.
AMI (Advanced Metering Infrastructure) consultant.
MMLD has discussed with Jackie Lemmerhirt, a consultant with substantial experience in AMI systems.
See slides page 12. Having worked with several utilities professionally, in software management
positions with these companies, she understands the balance between hardware and software for AMI
and Meter Data Management (MDM) systems. As a consultant, she has worked with a number of
municipalities in MA and other states. She has experience with a number of vendors in the AMI space,
including MMLD’s supplier NexGrid. MMLD will retain her as a consultant in a contract not to exceed
$12,000, to get her expert advice on how to integrate data between proprietary system (NexGrid) and
more standardized software systems collecting and analysing the data. She is a neutral, experienced
third party, whose experience will benefit MMLD. There is no need for a formal vote of the Commission,
as the proposed contract amount is below the threshold and entering into this relationship is at the
discretion of the General Manager. The Commission does support MMLD hiring Lemmerhirt Consulting,
as proposed by the General Manager.



                                                                                                        3/15
Writing off receivables from inactive accounts
At the request of the Business Manager, the Chair moved the following proposal:
         To write off the balance due in inactive accounts with no activity between November 1, 2021
         and October 31, 2022 in the amount of $73,436.84. Seconded by Commissioner Yarmoff.
This is a similar amount as last year’s. MMLD does continue to collect on these accounts, but would like
to take this amount off the books for the accounts with no activity over a year.
Vote #2023-48           Unanimous.

MIT Sloan School of Management
The Marblehead Light Commission worked with MIT’s Sloan School in 2023, participating as a host for a
Sustainability-Lab (S-Lab) project. These projects are part of the curriculum for Sloan School MBA
students working on real sustainability problems in the corporate and industrial world, page 13. A group
of three students worked with us on the subject of solar electricity production in Marblehead and the
possibilities to increase this production. A report was produced which Commissioner Smith and Yarmoff
reviewed. It will be circulated to the Commission and MMLD.
The Sloan School contacted Commissioner Yarmoff to see if the Light Commission wants to host another
team this year. A meeting will take place with faculty on December 20. The timeline calls for potential
hosts to write up their proposal by January 10, 2024, then discuss the proposal with faculty to ensure
the problem proposed is adequate in view of the objectives of the student’s project. The proposals will
then be pitched to the students on February 7, at which point the MBA students will determine which
project they would be most interested to work on. Marblehead will be competing with companies such
as Fidelity, Procter & Gamble and GM for the students’ interest. The process, if any student choses to
work with us, will include having the team redefine the problem (“Good Problem Formulation”) then
having Commissioners work with the students on a weekly basis during the first and second quarter.
Commissioner Yarmoff and General Manager Kowalik will meet with MIT’s faculty to discuss possible
projects themes. Problems considered currently include:
  - Making ToU rates effective;
  - Interest and trade-offs between short and long term BESS Storage, residential or utility scale; or
  - Resilience and micro-grid.

Upnine Contract Proposal
MMLD has been discussing with Upnine the possibility of this company taking on the monitoring,
remediation and management of part of the communication system that MMLD maintains to gather
metering information from the field. A contract proposal has been sent to MMLD. The General Manager
recommends entering into a three year, 8 am – 4 pm remediation contract. This could be adjusted in
coming years if additional coverage is felt necessary. This $31,632 contract does not include an on-
boarding fee of $5,000.
Vote #2023-49           Motion to approve the spending of $36,632 for year one of a three-year agreement
                        to provide MMLD with the Proactive Monitoring, Remediation, and Management
                        of the MMLD Meter Data Fiber Backhaul System was moved by Commissioner
                        Smith, seconded by Commissioner Frechette. Unanimous.

Village 13 substation replacement update
Moving transformers and switchgear into the site is complicated because of the weight of the
equipment. The recommended approach into the substation would allow to avoid the electric duct
bank, if the path is widened to edge of the property line of the Sewer and Water parcel (where

                                                                                                    4/15
underground pre-cast concrete sewer parts are currently stored). The fence would have to be modified,
the transformers would not come through the entrance but where the current fence is located. MMLD
reviewed last week the proposed design of 11 precast concrete portions which would go over and
protect the forced sewer line, with South East Essex sewer district, their civil engineering firm, and
Marblehead Sewer and Water Department. The project is estimated to cost about $200K. Virginia
Transformer has sent us a document stating that the first transformer is arriving May 1, 2024. Everything
needs to be ready on site to receive the shipment.
Commissioner Yarmoff requested that a detailed timeline of all the activities be presented at the next
meeting. There are still a lot of moving parts: surveying the property; moving the sewer equipment,
MMLD’s equipment; putting out to bid the pre-cast concrete bridging elements; getting them
manufactured and installed; modifying the fence… Poles currently stored on site will be removed before
the transformers arrive. They can be moved to the Tioga way site, see below. Alternatively, they could
be stored next to the substation next to Temple Emanu-El, where MMLD owns land. All this needs to be
done before May 1. It would be very useful to have a detailed Microsoft Project Timeline to identify the
critical path, if any, and ensure that the project is on-time. The General Manager will invite Mike Barett,
who is very involved in managing this project at the next Commission meeting to present this Microsoft
project timeline.

Tioga Way property discussion
In 2019, the Town approved the transfer of the Tioga way property for use by the Light Department.
There is one entrance into the property from Lincoln Avenue. Another entrance to the parcel could be
created from Tioga way or from Hoods Lane if an easement to use this private road is obtained. Yet
another entrance could possibly be created on the side of the boat yard, which would have the added
benefit of giving fire-access to the site. In a next step, MMLD should talk with a site developer to figure
out what would be the best way to develop this site. Easements to enter the property should be
possible to obtain. The part of the property closest to Tioga way can be developed relatively easily as
access from Tioga way is straightforward, the plot can be graded and used for multiple uses by MMLD,
to store equipment, potentially for batteries installation.

Electric buses
The EPA has launched a rebate program for School Electric bus, which is a lottery not a competition,
allocating up to $200,000. EPA funding unlocks Mass CEC funding. This is an opportunity for Marblehead
which is not a town eligible for previous round of funding, as part of a non-priority district). Applications
are due January 31. The School Committee has to be the lead on such a project, but a Light Department
affirmation that the local utility is in support of the concept is necessary. This subject is on the school
committee’s agenda for their next meeting taking place this week. Highland bus would be the applicant.
If the project were to go forward, MMLD would benefit from capacity reduction from the use of the
battery (226 kWh) during the summer months. With Marblehead’s small bus fleet of 5 vehicles, there
could be an issue of range, as buses are not only used in town but also used for sports outings. The
proposed submission is non-binding. There is no expectation that the Light Department finances the
charging infrastructure: rather this statement is that MMLD will coordinate with the schools. In other
words, it would become a customer project like any other. The infrastructure in place at the Brown
school would allow installing a charger.
Commissioner Hull wants to make sure that by signing this document, MMLD is not locked into anything.
With this project, there are many reasons why the final decision may be a “no go”, but lack of support
from the Light Department should not be one: we can eliminate this point of friction so that the School
Committee can take the appropriate decision from their perspective. The General Manager stated that
if the School Committee wants to go ahead with this, MMLD will support the project. Commissioner
Yarmoff remarked that in a town government where each function works in its own silo, we know it is
                                                                                                          5/15
difficult to synchronize decisions, we know from experience that support from other town departments
is not to be taken for granted.


Vote #2023-50           Motion to have the General Manager sign the document affirming that MMLD
                        will coordinate with the school to submit an application to the EPA rebate
                        program moved by Commissioner Wolf, seconded by Commissioner Frechette.
                        Unanimous.

The General Manager noted that the board needs to direct the Light Department with regard to the role
that MMLD should play to plan for electric charging infrastructure in town, for fleets and for private uses.


The meeting concluded at 6:52 pm after a motion to adjourn was proposed, seconded and adopted
unanimously.


                                                ----****----




                 Documents presented during the 12/19/23 Light Commission Meeting



                           December 18, 2023 storm impacts
              • Wind-blown trees down at two
                locations, took down MMLD
                utility poles: Rockaway St and
                Dameys Way (off Waldron St).
              • MMLD line crews were able to
                stay on top of customer calls all
                day




                                                                                                      6/15
           December 18, 2023 storm impacts
• Widespread damage - 6 Different
  Mutual Aid requests from all 6
  New England states
• MMLD line crew Kyle Laron &
  John Ragusa, and Distribution
  Mgr Greg Chane in caravan to
  Calais, Maine ...need is until
  Saturday
• Positive benefit of tree trimming
  program is evident




             Engineering& TechServices- Update

• MMLD-initiated    New Project Engineering
• Customer-initiated    New Project Engineering
• Substations - Ongoing Operations & Maintenance
• Wilkins Plant - Operations & Maintenance
• IT/Regulatory/Other
• Emergency Response - extreme weather



            TechServicesTeam

• Colin - Group Manager and Electrical Engineer
• Jack Ravago-Senior Maintenance and Operations Specialist:
  Substation maintenance and testing, distribution system switching,
  and Wilkins Plant operator
• Didi Rubano - Lead Meter Technician
• Paul Surette - Maintenance and Operations Specialist: Fleet
  mechanic, HVAC/facilities maintenance, Wilkins Plant operator,
  shipping & receiving
• Nate Kobialka - Advanced Electric Utility General Tech: Substation
  specialist (trainee), distribution system switching (trainee), and
  Wilkins Plant operator (trainee)




                                                                       7/15
              MMLD-lnitiated Projects

• Village 13 upgrade - tech team member with PLM
• Battery storage siting evaluations - multiple locations
• 1304 line upgrade - Village 13 to Beacon substation - daily switching to
  de-energize line while line crew installs new poles (45 poles)
• (unplanned) Dec 14. Foster Street- pumping station alarms and low V
  alerts from meter. Evaluate for short term solution and long term
  redesign/refeed
• System PF correction - opened capacitor banks Nov
• AMI communication     improvements and solutions




              Customer-Initiated Projects

• Expanding power needs for Blue Anchor Millworks, Beacon St woodshop
  equipment - (3-phase 300 kVA 277/480 volt) new pad and refeed
• Sailmaker Place - 80 Tioga Way ...48 residential units
• Mariner Way- lMVA transformer and multiple pole relocations, CTsand
  wiring for metering
• Town DPW building 100 Tower Way- increased power needed
• The Elbridge - Gerry School Condos -1-ph to 3-ph, increased power needs
  ongoing, relocate feeds, additions 1-ph service requested
• Temple Sinai - 100 kw solar PV array
• Residential projects ...




              ResidentialProjects

• Bass Rock Lane
• Casino Road
• Wyman - EV charger at a ledge-challenged site
• Ocean Ave
• Harbor Ave
• Beacon St
• Solar application reviews (distribution       reliability)




                                                                             8/15
             SubstationO&M

• Clifton - Dec. switchgear testing, switching, de-energizing, and racking
  out breakers.
• Commercial St. - remote switchboard meter display
  replacements/upgrades
• Oversee/Review weekly substation visits & meter readings
• Took delivery of retired pole mount transformers from Middleboro Gas
  and Electric w/ assistance from Irby
• Transformers Spec'd and Ordered, 45kVA 3-ph pole mount stacker,
  fiberglass box pad for Blue Anchor project, 10 reconditioned S0kVA pole
  mounts for stock, 300kVA 3-ph pad mount to replenish inventory.



              Wilkins O&M

• Oct. unscheduled DEP compliance inspection
• ISO Winter Readiness Survey submitted Dec
• Participate in ISO IEP (Inventoried Energy Program)
• ISO GADS (Generating Availability Data System) monthly review
• ISO Weekly OP21 Fuel & Emissions survey
• Wilkins fence unplanned repairs
• Catalyst monitor data pulls for reporting
• ISO Summer and Winter Claimed Capability Audits



              IT/Regulatory/Other

• Dept. Network Server Maintenance Coord with IT vendor lPath
• Primary contact with Tighe & Bond for DEP& EPAWilkins filings
• EIA reports (EIA-860, EIA-861, EIA-923A), NPCCparticipation and
  UFLScompliance surveys, NERCAlert responses and reliability
  assessments, MassDPU, MMWEC tech contact and filings
• Town & MMLD fiber optic system projects - new cameras, shared
  fiber
• AED battery and pad replacements
• Backflow tests sprinkler system coordination




                                                                             9/15
                  MMWEC Winter Reliability Update
                                                2023/2024




                              WHOlUA,l!IUCTJICCOlilr.tNY
                              Public Energy Partners




                                    Background
•       In an effort to keep MLP members informed of the current outlook
        for generation in the region, MMWEC has prepared the following
        outlook for Winter 2023/2024
•       This is intended to relay forecast from ISO-NE and NOAA as well
        as provide a reminder of MLPs' roles in an energy or capacity
        deficiency




            What are the Meteorologists Saying?

                 ISO-NE                                                 NOAA
    •   Peak winter load is forecast at                    •   40%-60% chance of above
        20,269 MW (50/50 Forecast);                            average temperatures through
        260 MW higher than last                                February
    •   Peak winter load is forecast at                    •   40% chance of above average
        21,032 MW (90/ IO Forecast;                            precipitation for coastal New
        350 MW higher than last                                England
    •   Mystic RMR, still in place as is;                  •   Patterns driven strong El Nino
        IEP program to provide                                 effect in Pacific
        security

                                                                                                2




                                                                                                    10/15
     ISO Scenario Analysis (Comparison)
        Scen;:mo Oescr1pt1ons& Results

                     SCCln3riO:

                  Similar Winter
                                                               Mochir.lto

                                                       Winter 2017/2018
                                                                                                               ·-·
                                                                                                       Winter 2013/2014
                                                                                                         ,Id      tt'clncrmal
                                                          :dert aononNI
                                                        1w1
                                                                                               st.    ldsnapsoffourorincred.:,ys
          Ob!>erved
                  WeatherCondit10ns            two -..ff'k spa-, cf 511Hlcartl'~bdoN
                                                                                               ane strelth al e mni.nut         ~   a,,,.,.
                                                           l'IO'm.Jltefl'IIH
                                                                                                           ~-"-            11
               PeakLoad Modeled                            19,600MW                                        20300MW

               Total Winter Energy
                                                          Jq,JOOGWh                                        11,lOOGWh
                Demal'\d Modeled
                                              Sufficient c.a,p,elty ,nd cneriv to meet       C..p•dtydclldcacy   ,,;111,ns H.-ois • f.-
                     Results:                    peak loads ind e,,era dem.nds                     days, ener,v ~orlf1II unllUly



        Assumptions
                                                 Vatybrtwec:nl,000          -1.000~W/tv"'hffl1t20"r     1.SOOMW           whet <lO'J
            B!h nd-t~e-\'1eter PV (apacd.y                                       6.400WWiumtpliiltf




 Key Takeaways from ISO Winter Analysis
New England should have sufficient resources to meet peak demand this
winter
ISO will continue to monitor natural gas deliverability throughout the
winter; consistent with past winter seasons,the ISO assumes that
approximately 3,500 - 4,300 MW may be at risk due to constraints
Based on generator capabilities expected during the winter season,
capacity analysis indicates a surplus even after accounting for generation
at risk due to gas supply
Extended periods of cold weather may rapidly deplete stored fuel
inventories and capacity outlook will be adjusted accordingly
Unplanned generation & transmission outages could rapidly decrease
capacity surplus margins for the region


                                                                                                                                              4




                  MMLD Proposed 2024 Operating Budget ($MM} -
                                   $21.696

                                             All Other OpEx,
                                               2.620, 12%
                                                           I

         Employee Benefits & orrn•,
                    1.760, 8%




             Depreciation, 2.130,
                    10%

                                                                                                                   Bulk Power, 12. 733,
                                                                                                                          59%




                                                                                                                                                  11/15
                   2024 Operating Budget

                       Revenue & Rate Requirement Projection 2024
                                    Using 5% Depreciation
                                          (000's)
                                                                               Projected   Proposed
                                                        Budget      Budget      Actual      Budget
                                                         2022        2023        2023        2024

Total Operating & Maintenence Expense Budget             19,510.0   22,996.0    21,085.0    21,365.8
Surplus Revenues returned to Town of Marblehead             330.0      330.0       330.0       330.0
                                                              a.a        a.a         a.a         0.0
                                                              0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                              0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                              0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0
   Revenue Requirement                                   19,840.0   23,326.0    21,415.0    21,695.8




    Lemmerhirt Consulting Background

    • 20 years of consulting to utilities: IOUs, co-ops, municipals
    • Experience
         • Executive positions with Adara, Mueller Systems
         • AMI and MDM product management
         • AMI and MDM project management
    • Team with over 30 years of utility experience
    • Focused expertise: AMI, MDM, Integration, Load Research, Rates
    • Based in Framingham, MA



     Project Involvement
    Completed Projects with:                Currently Working with:
        • Concord Electric                       • North Attleborough Electric
        • Middleborough Gas & Electric           • Holden Municipal Light Dept
        • Sterling Municipal - Electric and      • Vermont Public Power Supply
          Water                                     Authority
        • Groton Electric                        • New Brunswick Power
        • Reading Municipal                      • SW Arkansas Electric Cooperative
        • Clark County Electric Cooperative      • Washington Electric Cooperative
          {Indiana)                              • Vermont Electric Cooperative
        • Ipswich MA




                                                                                                       12/15
AMI Vendor Experience

• Itron and Silver Spring                                  Vendor                   Number of
                                                           Selection                Projects
• Landis & Gyr
                                                           Eaton                              5
• Adara
                                                           Adara                              1
• Eaton
                                                           Itron                              3
• Honeywell (Elster)                                       Landis & Gyr                       2
• Trilliant                                                In progress                        2
• Sensus
• NexGrid



Our Team and Roles
    Jackie lemmerhirt - Project Lead, AMI Lead                                 Geetha Ganesan

            • Key point of contact                                 Business Process & Benefit Analysis Lead

            • Overall project management                              Conduct "as-is" and "to-be" system
            • Lead interaction with staff, AMI vendors                evaluations, including technology
            • Develop AMI Recommendations                              required

                                                                       Develop business process plan
                                                                       Lead quantification of benefits
      Barbara Leary - Stakeholder Communications

               Collaborate on stakeholder engagement

               Lead customer strategy development

               Develop stakeholder and customer communications and materials




Sloan School S-Lab Project steps

• Participated as a host in Spring 2023


• 2024 calendar
   • Scoping possible problems proposal with faculty                     2023/12/20
   • Draft of application                                                2024/01/10
   • Scoping and problem formulation workshop                            2024/01/10
   • Pitch of problems to students                                       2024/02/07

   • Work of team: 1Q24 - 2Q24



• Possible projects
   • Making Time of Use effective: what does it take?
   • Storage in Marblehead: short vs long term; Utility vs residents: aiming to
     reduce energy costs in Marblehead by x%.
   • Resilience and microgrid


• Others?

• Problems need to meet the Sloan School curriculum
• Important to have a « Good Problem Formulation »


                                                                                                              13/15
                    Three steps to good problem
                            formulation
 I. Identify the high-level process you are improving and the metric you
    care about
         • Is it cost reduction?Riskmanagement?
                                             Revenue
                                                   growth?

 2. Scope
        down to a specific
                         manifestation
                                    ofthatproblem
                                                onwhich
                                                      youcanmake
    canmakeprogress quickly
         • Ex.6-8 weeks,durationof the S-Labclass,moreprogresswith manyshort projectsthanonebig change
           big changeinitiative

 3. Formyourproblemstatement
         • A singlesentencewith a clear measurablea

                                                                                                         Mir
                                                                                                         MANAGEMENT
                                                                                                         Sustamab1htylnitialiv<l




 Anatomy of a Good Problem Statement

                                                                                     •••
                                                                                           Core Values
 It explicitlyreferences something that the organization or



                                                                                     •••
 person in question cares about
     • Revenue, profit, defects, customer satisfaction
     • Mission and values and usually a good place to start



                It contains a clear notion of a gap, shortfall, or dissatisfaction
                Target -Actual=    Gap
                                                                                     •••
                                                                                          '''''j"',,~
                                                                                    --                   --
The key variables are quantifiable (though not necessarily currently measured)       ;:




               It is as "neutral" as possible concerning causes or solutions
                                                                                                         M
                                                                                                         MANAGEMENT
                                                                                                         SustainabiilitylMiat.,.




 Common failure modes:
Skipping writing it down, because "we all know the problem" so let's
get moving
       Writing it down in one sentence forces you to be clear
Problem statement as solution in disguise
       "The problem is that our staff need more training"

'Boil the ocean'- trying to solve too much at once
       "We need to get to net zero "

Lack of precision and quantification
       "We need more workplace diversity"                                                                Mr
                                                                                                         MANAGEMENT
                                                                                                         S.-..biltty




                                                                                                                                   14/15
 Some examples (Good!):
• Bank scores a 3/10 in feeling confident in hiring and supporting an
 associate with a disability. Improve their confidence increasing their score
 to a 6/10 or better.

• Our paper losses are at least 10% versus an industry standard of 5%. This is
 negatively affecting our financial position and our ability to be competitive.

• Reduce emissions at one Pharma plant by 5% in 1 year in order to meet
 corporate climate goals.


                                                                         Mir
                                                                         MANAGEMENT
                                                                         SUlblnabllityl




Some examples (Bad!):
• The problem is we don't have a sustainability strategy.
• Our CEOdoesn't care enough.
• We need a model to identify sustainable investments for our portfolio.
• We need to re-organize our key functions to align with and support the
 emerging customer 'verticals'.
• Those guys in marketing are jerks and don't understand a thing about
 manufacturing. All the changes they request make production impossible
 to schedule and we always miss our targets.


                                                                         ...........
                                                                         MANAGEMENT
                                                                               ,,
                                                                                     r


                                  ----****----




                                                                                          15/15
