Light Commission March 28, 2023 meeting minutes
To:             Light Commission: Commissioners
                Light Department: J. Kowalik, General Manager, M. Barett, Business Manager
From:           Jean-Jacques Yarmoff, Secretary
Date:           May 4, 2023
Re:             Commission Meeting March 28, 2022



A quorum being present, Light Commission Chair Mike Hull opened the meeting at 4:04 pm, the meeting
being held both in person and with remote access available to the public. A recording of the meeting is
made available to the public at the following link.

Participated in meeting:
        Commissioners:          Hull, Frechette, Smith, Wolf and Yarmoff participated in person.
        Light Department:       General Manager, J. Kowalik and Manager of Tech. Operations, C. Coleman
        Invited:                Brooks Winner, MAPC, presenting for Green Marblehead Committee

Approval of March 1, 2023 minutes.
Vote #2023-13 Commissioner Wolf moved to approve the minutes of the March 1st, commission
              meeting, as amended. Seconded by Commissioner Frechette.
              Four in favor, Hull voted against approving the minutes because of concerns of possible
              open meeting law violations and possible Chapter 164 violations.

Public Comments
No comments from the public.

Village 13 upgrade: update
The contracts for procurement of Switch Gear and for Transformers are signed. The site needs to be
prepared later this year for installation of the equipment in early 2024, and a contract with the
appropriate civil engineering firm needs to be put in place. The team is revisiting the best access to the
site by organizing a meeting of the transportation company who know the equipment they need to
move a 100,000 lbs piece of equipment, and local engineering firms. So far, access from Westshore drive
has been privileged, but the team is revisiting access from Bessom Street. If it were possible, this would
avoid widening the right of way and encroaching on wetlands. This might end up being more expeditious
and cheaper way to bring the equipment to the site.
Slide 1 on page 6 describes the timeline for installation of switchgear, transformer and connections.
Depending on weather in winter of 2024, final work may only be completed in the spring of 2025.


Go Green Now Commercial Rate
The Go Green Rate has been available to residential customers. The General Manager is proposing to
extend the program to small commercial and to large commercial customers, under the same terms as
the existing residential Go Green Rate. In 2022, 47 participating residential customers will contribute to
retire 156 RECs. A commercial customer would like to lower their carbon footprint by accessing a similar
                                                                                                        1/15
mechanism: if they do participate, in view of the current electricity consumption, they would retire 74
RECs, which would increase the RECs retirement by 50%.

Vote #2023-14 Commissioner Wolf moved to expand the definition of the existing Go Green Now
              program for residential customers to include customers in the Small Commercial and
              Large Commercial rate classes, motion seconded by Commissioner Smith. Unanimous.

Electric and Building Code changes

Commissioner Hull explained the new Building Code that came into force at the beginning of the year
(225 CMR 22.00) at the same time as the Electrical Code was updated. New buildings over 1,500 square
feet or renovations of more than 50% of the building are concerned. The building must be prewired for
electric heating, EV charger level 2 and possible solar installation. The additional load must be
calculated, and in many situations the existing 200 Amps panel will not suffice and a new 400 Amps
service will be necessary. Residents should plan in advance as these new code requirements mean
upfront calculation of load, and possibly dealing with supply chain constraints that they might not
anticipate. For the Light Department, upgrades to the service lines to the buildings or to the pole
transformers might be necessary.

Energy Efficiency and Vulnerable Populations

The General Manager presented information on the population of Marblehead, in the slides attached
from page7, making the point that the programs the Light Department supports should be available to
all residents, irrespective of income level. Commissioner Wolf emphasized the necessity of
communication around these programs. By benefitting the department financially, they help the whole
town and every resident by keeping the rates low at the expense of people who want to take advantage
of these technologies; however, this must be better communicated. Commissioner Adam noted that the
latest census data show that the distribution of Marblehead residents by income is very different from
that presented by the General Manager. Nevertheless, it is clear that there are hundreds of vulnerable
households in Marblehead (slide 3 page 7). DOER has programs specifically dedicated to energy
efficiency and electrification, with a special focus on low and moderate income. The department is
communicating with MMWEC to provide data so that MMWEC can apply for block grants. Details will
become clear in the future, but the moneys are substantial (slide 1 page 9).

Light Commissioners’ Association

Commissioner Yarmoff reported that a number of Light Commissions are organizing a network of
commissioners to exchange information. Commissioners, with elected terms of a few years change
frequently, will more efficiently be able to learn their job. Currently 17 of the 41 systems are
participating, and there is an outreach effort so that all light commissioners in the State are aware that
they can participate. The Massachusetts Municipal Association has been approached and may recognize
this group, as it recognizes the Select Board Association. Open Meeting Law applies, and if a majority of
the commissioners of one system participate in a meeting, then some must remain “silent participants”.
Marblehead Commissioners are aware and have been invited to the meetings (the next one taking place
on May 11). The proposal is for the Marblehead Light Commission to support the effort of a group of
commissioners to create a state-wide association of commissioners of Municipal Light Plants. The goal of
this association is to support and assist commissioners in their task.

                                                                                                     2/15
Vote #2023-15 Commissioner Yarmoff proposed a motion: that the Marblehead Light Commission
              support the effort of a group of commissioners to create a state-wide association of
              commissioners of Municipal Light Plants. The goal of this association is to support and
              assist commissioners in their task. Motion seconded by Commissioner Frechette.
              Unanimous.

Green Marblehead Committee

Brooks Winner of MAPC presented the Marblehead Green Committee Road Map (Slides from page 9:
the town adopted a document “Climate Vision” in 2020, which established 2040 as a target date for the
town to reach Net Zero emissions, and the Marblehead Green Committee was established by the Select
Board to implement that vision. This work was supported by a grant from the State, to put in place the
planning process and the Road Map itself. The latest IPCC report published this March highlights the
need for urgency on these actions: while the Commonwealth is working under legal requirements to
reach Net Zero by 2050, the IPCC report highlights the fact that developed nations need to reach that
goal as early as possible and as close to 2040 as possible; hence Marblehead’s goal.
The road map highlights that electrification is the key to reaching the goals: electrification of heating, of
transportation. And the cleaner the electric portfolio of MMLD, the more reductions from electrification
we achieve. The Marblehead Green Committee made the point that Marblehead cannot reach its goal
without a carbon-free MMLD portfolio by 2040.
There are many actions that MMLD can take to help Marblehead meet its climate goals but the key
action that the Marblehead Green Committee would like the Commission to consider is:
         Transition MMLD electricity supply to 100% clean energy by 2040.
The general manager made the point that whatever the target is, from a practical perspective, to
increase the ratio of clean energy in our portfolio, we need to consider both the technologies, and the
projects. There are some proven technologies, developed at scale, that are or will be available in
principle: the question is both the timing and the projects availability for Marblehead. Some projects are
a bird in the hand, like 2023A, others are more elusive.

Commissioner Yarmoff reviewed the likely major projects and technologies that may become available
in the next 5 years.
      Off-shore wind:
             o One 800 MW project is coming on-line at the end of the year. However, MMWEC and
                 Marblehead have not been able to get a supply contract from this project.
             o There are 4,800 MW of additional off-shore wind projects at various stages of
                 permitting, contract negotiations and development: the earliest project MMLD could
                 have participated in would have provided electricity by 2028, but this project is now
                 delayed and we may not get any until 2030.
      Hydroelectricity:
             o The New England Clean Energy Connect, the transmission line to bring 1,200 MW of
                 hydroelectricity from Quebec to Massachusetts through Maine, is uncertain, wrapped
                 up in a legal battle in the Maine courts.
Which leaves us, in terms of opportunities for proven technologies and available projects, with
MMWEC’s project 2023A with non-emitting electricity proposed by NextEra, based on the Seabrook
nuclear power plant.

                                                                                                        3/15
Project 2023A (See slides on page 11) MMWEC has been discussing with NextEra Energy a long term
bilateral contract (Power Purchase Agreement between MMLD and NextEra Energy) for firm delivery of
non-intermittent carbon-free energy, sourced from the Seabrook Nuclear Station. This energy comes
with associated environmental credits that MMLD needs from a regulatory perspective. Should energy
from Seabrook not be available during the firm contract, NextEra will make best efforts to replace the
electricity from one of its many non-emitting generating facilities. The contract is long term, 20 years
from 2030, with an early option to start, which MMLD would like to adopt (2028). Delivery point is at
Mass Hub, and the price is competitive.

MMWEC is negotiating on behalf of its members and does not know exactly how much power MMLD
can get under this contract: MMWEC has proposed an allocation for each member interested in
participating, which MMLD has pushed to increase up to 3 MW of power capacity. If MMLD were able to
get its full request, the chart on page 11 shows the evolution of carbon free power in MMLD’s portfolio,
with MMWEC’s assumptions of growth and state level legal constraints. The graph shows visually that
Project 2023A would allow us to meet our 2030 obligations. Comments on this chart:
- The cliff decreases on this chart show contracts expiring, which can be extended: the cliff decreases are
not a cause of concern.
- MMWEC is using ISO-NE projection for load growth of 1.3% per year, while our projections for load
increase with transportation electrification alone is 1.7%. This does not take into account the building
electrification mandated by the new building codes. Marblehead load growth over time will likely be
higher than that shown on this graph.
In the General Manager’s opinion, any attempt to meet the Marblehead Green Committee’s goal of Net
Zero by 2040 means that we cannot pass on project 2023A.

The Commission discussed the appropriate amount of energy to request (asking for a higher amount of
energy is not guaranteed to succeed in any case; there could be a risk of having too much power in the
night-time trough consumption that can be mitigated by increased load of EV charging – not yet modeled).
It was also discussed that this contract does not increase “nuclear production” or “nuclear waste” in any
way. This is about optimizing an existing asset and Marblehead benefitting from this optimization.

The General Manager distributed a motion that states that the Light Commission:
- intends to have MMLD participate in project 2023A and pay its share of the budget in order to get an
agreement with NextEra Energy;
- directs the General Manager to execute a Participation Acknowledgement.

Vote #2023-16 The above motion was moved by Commissioner Hull, seconded by Commissioner Smith.
              Unanimous.
Vote #2023-17 A motion to have MMLD participation in project 2023A start in 2028 rather than 2030
              was moved by Commissioner Wolf, seconded by Commissioner Frechette. Unanimous.

The Secretary of the Commission will send to MMWEC a Certificate of Vote to memorialize the Light
Commission intent with regards to project 2023A, and the General Manager will send to MMWEC a
Participation Acknowledgement stating the power level and the start date expected.
                                                                                                      4/15
Resiliency of Supply

The General Manager reviewed actions taken to have a more secure supply of electricity. As our
electricity comes into town through one single point (double connector) 23 kV line, there is an inherent
risk associated with that single line. But actions have been taken to minimize the risk, described on the
slide page 12. Hardening our existing line is important work that the Department is doing. The Village 13
substation upgrade will also be a critical equipment with new capabilities that will add to our resiliency.

Commissioner Yarmoff explained that the reason this subject is regularly put on the agenda of the board
is that a well-known vulnerability for MMLD is having a single line for sourcing power into Marblehead.
At this stage we have no plan to address this vulnerability. The longer we wait to start on this project,
the longer it will take to complete. From an engineering perspective, any system with a critical piece – in
our case, one single line bringing energy into the town – without redundancies built in, is an accident
waiting to happen.

One way to address this vulnerability would be to have a second line provide power to the town. To put
in place a plan, we need to know the cost for a new line connecting to the New England grid, a line going
through Swampscott being one option. Conversations with National Grid are a necessary first step to
generate options for the board to consider, the last discussions took place in 2020. Even if a second line
goes to the Swampscott grid, it eventually links back to the same National Grid substation “Railyard #49”
located 97 Margin Street in Salem. Other options will need to be evaluated to remedy this vulnerability.
One such option is having the supply line buried along the Right of Way. Commissioner Adams reminded
the board that grants are available to increase the resiliency of the distribution system. Among the
issues we need to consider is whether an additional supply line is for emergency use only, or for regular
use. The General Manager mentioned that we can engage with the National Grid team but we need to
be ready with some answers to the questions that National Grid is going to ask us.

Rates discussions

The commission decided to postpone this discussion in view of time and the upcoming executive
session. The document prepared by Commissioner Smith “MMLD Distributed Generation Policy” was
distributed to Commissioners ahead of time. While the document has not been reviewed by the
Commission at this time, it was discussed and agreed that this document be made part of this meeting
and included in the minutes for possible public comments. This proposed policy document can be found
from page 13.

Executive session

Chair Mike Hull proposed a motion to go into Executive Session in order to conduct strategy sessions in
preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel General Manager Joe Kowalik.
Vote #2023-18 Motion proposed by Chair Hull. Frechette: yes; Hull: yes; Smith: yes; Wolf: yes; Yarmoff: yes.

The Light Commission entered into Executive Session at 5:48 pm. The Executive Session concluded at
6:15 pm after a roll call of commissioners voted to return to open session at which point a motion to
adjourn was proposed, seconded and unanimously adopted.

                                                ----****----


                                                                                                      5/15
Documents shown during the March 28 Light Commission meeting


                    Village 13 upgrade schedule

       • Late 2023- Award contract for site construction
       • Early 2024 -Village 13 Site construction begins with frost breaks.
       • By April 2024 - Widened Salem ROW access must be ready for use.
       • April 2024 -Switchgear current planned delivery
       • June 2024 - Transformers current planned delivery
       • Fall 2024- Existing 13 kV feeders will move over to the new switchgear
       • Fall/Winter 2024- Move 23 kV feeders to new transformers
       • Fall/Winter - Make all remaining connections
       • Depending on weather, final work may move into spring 2025.




                    Go Green Now for Commercial Customers

       • Design and implement the rate exactly the same as Residential
         customers.
       • 47 participating Residential Customers in 2022 - 156 Recs
         retired Avg customer, full year =4.8 RECs/yr
       • First Commercial Enrollment is QBE (Queensland Bank &
         Equitable, Australia) - insurance company with office on
         Pleasant St.
       • QBE 2022 annual electric consumption yield 74 RECs




                     Expand Go Green Now rate

       Go Green Now for Small Commercialand LargeCommercialrate
       customers

       Motion: ...to expand the definition of the existing Go Green Now program
       for residential customers to include customers in the Small Commercial
       and Large Commercial rate classes.




                                                                                  6/15
            Energy Efficiency & Decarbonization Programs
            for the Marblehead's Vulnerable Populations

• Why?
  - Recognize the unique distribution of household incomes in
    Marblehead
  - Ensure fill households have access to all MMLD programs for all
    households, regardless of HHLD income levels
  - Put a special emphasis on programs and grants that focus on
    vulnerable households




                      Household Income US Census 2018 ACS data
           40%
                                     ■ Mass       ■ Marblehead

           35%
                 ""
           30%                                                        28%
                           27"

           25%


           20%
                                       ""   17%
           15%




                                      II II I
           10%                                        ""' 10%    ""
            5%


            0%

                 $0-S0K   $50-lO0K   $100-lS0K      $150-200K    $200+K
                                        Household income




            Who are Vulnerable Households?

• 500+ Mhd households in the Federal Low Income Heating
  Assistance Program (LIHEAP)managed by the North Shore
  Community Action Program
• 307 household units: elderly, veterans and families in
  Marblehead Housing Authority units
• 200+ households in the two Comm of Mass Environmental
  Justice Census Block groups with incomes




                                                                            7/15
                                                                                                                      ,..,s.,s t,z,c.rz.y. 01
                                                                                                                      11,0«,- ~ .. Ill' •
                                                                                                               •tAIUOo'-lf'-) ~t'          11\J I&.,

                                                                                                            • Mtb<-.J l+J..,,              """°
                                                                                                                 ..~.;~
                                                                                                                !1,B•/•
                                                                                                                           1,J

                                                                                                                                 0,:,,-.Ai;{

                                                                                                       • Pol~        ?~> - 'i•l
                                                             I   ----.i                  ,rA><..('"
                                                                                  ('..t!Nt\       "t,o~-Z..
                                                                                  B~<,U~f
                                                                              , l~.1,,,.        uVd'V-                     (
                                                                              .... ~,._,,f,W,                                  "'IHt;:.
                                                                                         •·n,...._-,
                                                                              4\;'\ •u         ""      M•     S. MJ-4,H;!
                                                                                                              )\v, ,1.,,,,...c..
                                                                                                               ,:;     /~f:~\          ,,.. MA M -N.;.




                                                                                                                                          1:18,056
                                                                                                                       0        !JOO 1.000             2.00011




              .....

                                                                                           ~-,-Clfl_,_Ct




                                                    w,,...
                                                    Wood     •




                                      J
                                      !
                                                \   .
                              '
               TflCMKO
                     CoulllryCll,t>   ,_,,-•


             ~·'          ..
                      ..,......
                                                                           Mass 2020 Environmental Justice Block Grau
                                               Chl1on
                                                                          •Marblehead Housing Authority Properties




                      What Programsare available?

DOER Low and Moderate Income Housing Decarbonization Grant Program

• Energy efficiency including building envelope improvements and other measures
  resulting in electric load reduction, peak demand reduction, and demand
  management.
• Electrification (e.g. air or ground source heat pumps for space beating, air source heat
  pumps for water heating, induction cooking equipment).
• On-site renewable energy generation technologies (i.e., solar pv).
• The removal or mitigation of barriers (e.g., roofrepairs, electrical upgrades, knob and
  tube remediation, and vermiculite and asbestos removal) that result in installation of
  energy efficiency, electrification, and/or on-site renewable energy generation
  technologies.




                                                                                                                                                                 8/15
             What Programsare available?

DOERLow and Moderate Income HousingDecarbonizationGrant
Program
• Expects applicants' requests to be for grant funds of not less than
  two hundred and forty thousand dollars ($240,000)
• Buildings with 6+ units - maximum grant not to exceed $40,000
• Buildings with 5 and under units - max grant not to exceed $50,000




                                      Marblehead
                                       Net Zero
                                       Roadmap
                                           Marblehead
                                          Municipal Light
                                          Board Update
                                          March 28, 2023




  • Builds on the Marblehead Climate Vision adopted in 2020
    which identified 2040 as the target date for net zero emissions
  • Grant funding from the MA Executive Office of Energy and
    Environmental Affairs
  • Cohort of four MLP communities - Marblehead, Peabody,
    Ipswich, Belmont
  • Products: GfiG inventory, net zero planning process, and net
    zero roadmap
  • MAPC leading community engagement and roadmap
    development




                                                                        9/15
[he ~oston<!5lobc
               Followinga dismalglobalclimatereport,could
                                                      Massachusetts
                                                                 pushupitsnet-zerogoal?
                                                      a,w-       .........         c.-PIMllt                                                        [::J •   f - ijl ·-
   "On Monday, as he announced the
   release of the most recent UN
   report on climate change, Secretary
   General Antonio Guterres called on
   developed nations to achieve net­
   zero emissions by as close to 2040
   as possible. Like many states and
   countries, Massachusetts for years
   has been working toward a
   deadline of 2050, a date that grew
   out of international agreements to
   limit warming to 1.5·degrees."



                                                      r.,.. ■ _,.INllllll__,.""'_._. ....      .__,._111"1ml)•--.r• ........ Pf'IIP"l.ii,r~XM(l_..111          ___   IIOl(ITf
                                                      lt;l(ATY/AS$0ClAt{01'11l$$




Electrification is key to achieving net
          •  •
zero em1ss1ons
• From heating to cooking to transportation, electrifying end uses
  is a core strategy in the net zero roadmap
• The cleaner MMLD's portfolio is, the more emissions reductions
  we get from electrification
• Simply put, Marblehead can't meet its goals without a carbon­
  free MMLD portfolio by 2040




  Key Actions for Consideration
 T•ansition MMLDeledricity supply to 100% clean energy
 MMLD is working with MMWEC to develop o pion for transitioning to 100% carbon-free electricity by 2050 in
 compliance with An Act Creating a Next Generation Roadmap for Massachusetts Climate Policy, the climate low
 passed in Morch 2021. This plan will outline MMLD's plans for procuring power from renewable energy projects and
 other non-emitting sources. MMLD will also evaluate its current supply contracts to identify ways to reduce emissions
 and reduce exposure to price volatility from natural gos and other sources.

 Implement public housing solar program
 The town and MMLO will work with the Marblehead Housing Authority to explore the potential for installing solar PV
 at its properties to benefit residents. Housing authority residents could also participate in the community solar
 program referenced above, especially if solar is not feasible at some properties.

 Encourage residential batteries by allowing interconnectivity permits
 Battery storage for homes con help increase climate resiliency, and residential batteries can also be used as demand
 response resources to help reduce emissions by reducing the need for fossil fuel power generation during peak
 demand events. MMLO will work to enable residents to install residential-scale battery storage systems by creating a
 streamlined process for connecting such systems to the grid. MMLO will also encourage residents with battery systems
 to participate in its Connected Homes program.




                                                                                                                                                                                10/15
Executive Summary

• Special Project 2023A is long term Bilateral Contract that delivers firm
  (non-intermittent) carbon-free energy and associated environmental
  attributes ultimately sourced from the Seabrook Nuclear Generating
  Station.




Commercial Terms

Product          Firm ATCCarbon Free Energy and Emission Free Energy Credit
Term             2030 - 2050, with earlier start option beginning 2028
Volume           10% of Expected Annual Portfolio Needs (Up to 3MW capacity)
Delivery Point   Mass Hub
Price            Commercially Sensitive




                                          forec-a.stedPower Portfolio
                                                                               l




                                                                                   11/15
                     Resiliency Measures

Recognizing MMLD's electric supply is from a single source ...
• Hardened the Lead Mills berm with rip-rap
• Removed trees and trimmed others on Mhd ROWsfrom Lead
  Mills (Salem line) to Swampscott line
• Pre-stage Mayer Tree Service tree crew(s) and equipment, to
  shorten our response time to any threat from vegetation on
  our distribution system




                           ----****----




                                                                 12/15
Proposed Policy for Distributed Generation


 Marblehead Municipal Light Department
 Distributed Generation Policy
 MMLD'sDishibutedGeneiatlonPolicyallns to facilitatetile g,o\,•thof localfenew~bleene<gy
 sources, Thiswill improvepricestability.enhancesystemresiliencyand increaselocaloontrol
 wll le supportingU)etest 11ueres1
                                o.1r+,1MLD's
                                          e-ng1ne,wng,
                                                    econo1rncand environmen!al
 requireme-ms.


 Distributed Generation Customer Definition
 A distribulF!d oeneralinn r,ustnmer is a MMI O tP.lrlil c:us!omerin o:;iort,;tandina It.al uses onsit?.
 $Olaror solar+ batter.,- to f)enerateelectricIX)werfor a buildingalre<'idY    connectedto the1VJ.il.O
 distr;:bution
             system.

 The 11,;newiib!eDG syshmi, which mus! be us1=dfor the ruslomer's own consumplion, .inti
 which must operate in p.."lrallel'.'lilh MLP's P.lc°slingtransmission and distribution f~c:'lilia.. mus1
 be locatedon the customer'spror,ert\•.

 The customermusto·,inor leasetheirrenewa'OleOGS)'St~'llwith theprimaryintentof the
 systembeingusedto offsetanor pa11cf thenet meterngo.1stomersawnon-siteelectricpo\\'·er
 requirements.

 Leaseor financialarrangementsinvolvingIX)',•,rerpurchaseand salestransac:tions
                                                                              or k\+i/hsales
 betweenthe customeranda thirdpartyare not permitted. The use of a renewableD:3system
 for provJCling
             serviceto a thirdpan)'is strictlyprohibited.Undernocircumstances shall cutput
 fromtho rcncwi:ib!cDGsystem be providedor crC'd1tcd   to any tllltd l)Drty.


 Power Purchase Agreements
 Customersinterestedin developinga largersystemmustsubmita ~roposalfor a power
 purchaseagreement(PPA). The MMLDGenerc1I     Manatierhas the discretionto acceptor deny
 an·, PPA Pn:>POSfll$
                  and fo negotia:elheir lerms Ea-ohPPA p(()[.()S;,11
                                                                  will be F.!Vallmted
                                                                                   00 a
 c.a~-by-casebasis.


 System Capacity
 Exp.ic!e:J production cann:Jt exc:ei.d 90% of avemge load de!errrnned by most 1.ioenl 12 months
                                                        of bi11inghistory does not reflect avetf!r,e
 of billing hist.ory V.'here the mos! re-oent12 monih'l:>




                                                                                                            13/15
load becausebuildingwas unoccupiedor becauseload is expecte<I
                                                           to increase(i.e.due to
purchase of EV or installation or heat pump). a proforma load estimate oof'fl)teted by a oerbfied
electrician may be submitted.



Solar Credits & Billing
MMLO will compensate for ar1yexcess electricity that is fed into the grid at a rate based on the
actualoostsof <lelivenngthe electncselVice.The currentcreditis S.09t7 kw/handwill be
revisited annually based on the previous year's data derived from ISO New England and the
National Renewable Energy Lab.

Al me endor the monthlybillingpe1iod.Olecus1ornerijenera10,
                                                         will be billedro, the elecln<:ity
consumed at the designated service rate. At the end of the monthly billil)Q period, the customer­
generator's account "~II be credited for the electricity provided into the MMLO's system at an
amount equal to the then current annual rate.

For the billing period endi1)gin March of each year (or at the termination of seivice).any
remaining aedit balance m a customer-generator's aocounl ·Nillbe returned to Ule tvll\•lLD's
Sustainability
             Fund.

Custorner-generators   v,-illootreceiveanycashpaymentsforunusedcreditbalances,emaining
at the end of this annual cycle. Anycustomer charge or minimum ctiarge assoc:iatedwith a
customer-oenerator'$   Classof seivioewill still apply


Existing Net Metering Customers
Customer generators with net metering ag,eements authorized b~rthe t.•U\+ILD
                                                                           will retain their
legacyrates111)(Jer
                Ule previouscreditingstructureuntilApril 1. 2025. If <lesired.existing
customer-generators may elect to preemptively transibon to the ne•Nstructure. ahead of the
April 1. 2025 deadline



Interconnection
Custo,ners must sign the interconnection ag,eement.
The <>-rstomer-generator
                    mustcompletea,)(Jsigntile MMLD'sInterconnection
                                                                  APl)lication&
Agreement. The customer generator will be required to pay all applicable application fees and
electrical permittilg fees.
The customer-generator
                    shall build.operate.andmaintaintlle ne1meteringfacil~yso thatit
meets or exceeds all applicable safety and performance standards established by the




                                                                                            14/15
MassachusettsStltc BuildingCodes,the lv1assachusetts  DTE,th~ NationalElectricCod~,the
Instituteof Electricaland ElectronicsEngineers.and UnderwritersLaboratories.

Thenet meteringracilllym1..1st operatein parallelwith the MMLO'sexistingtransmissionand
distributionfacilities.The customer.generatorshallprovidea safetydisoconectdevice located
adjacentto the ELO'smeteringequipmentand shallbe accessibleto the fv1MLO"s    personnelat
a:1times.

The lvlMLOsh.a'.Ihavethe optionof requiringongoingtestingof the disconneciequipment.The
t,1\M.LD
       maydisconnectthe customer-generator's      net meteringfacilityfrom the fv1MLD's
<hsbi!)\1llO()
            system at any 11me,r •l da,amsu-ie-s.afet;•
                                                     and slabihly of the system 00t.1ld be
oompromised.Thi:!MMLDre::;ervesU1enuht to 1m;.pect      net mele1inglc.1c1llh.:ls
                                                                              al (tny lime with
proper noticeto the customer


Batteries
Mf•l-LDsupportsthe installationof in homebatteriesin line\vith currentStateof MA safety
regulationsant1via applicabletov1npermits.

Customersmaychooseto enrollthe batteryin the MMLONextZerodemandresponseprogram
that con-pensatesbillingcreditswhendispatched.All batterystoragedischarge.•11flen
drspatclled1s<'.OOS1derea
                        <Jama.ndra~lO()SeTtl!:!NextZem pmn,am1smaoa{Jeaser>-aralalv
                                                                                  as
an overallmonlhlyim::enlwelor a11ovm10
                                     rernoledemandmcmagernent     du1int1
                                                                        peakdemand.




                                                                                              15/15
