Light Commission September 5, 2023 meeting minutes
To:             Light Commission: Commissioners
                Light Department: J. Kowalik, General Manager
From:           Jean-Jacques Yarmoff, Secretary
Date:           October 20, 2023
Re:             Commission Meeting September 5, 2023: Public Session



A quorum being present, Chair Wolf brought the meeting to order at 4:02 pm. The meeting was held in
person and with remote internet access, both available to public participation. A recording of the
meeting is made available to the public at the following link.

Participated in meeting:
        Commissioners:      Frechette, Smith, Wolf and Yarmoff participated in person;
                            Commissioner Hull was excused.
        Light Department:   General Manager, J. Kowalik; Financial Manager, Matt Barrett; Distribution
                            Manager, Greg Chane and Manager of Technical Operations, C. Coleman.
        Invited from MMWEC: Ron DeCurzio, CEO,Justin Connell, Director Energy Markets,
                            Zoe Eckert, Sustainable Energy Policy & Program Senior Manager.


Marblehead Land Acknowledgment declaration was read prior to the start of business.


Approval of Minutes of previous meetings.
Vote #2023-35 A motion to approve the minutes of the three Light Commission meetings of:
               December 19, 2022 Executive session; July 26, 2023, Public Session; and July 26, 2023
               Executive session was moved by Commissioner Frechette and seconded by
               Commissioner Yarmoff. Unanimous.

Comments from the Public
Jim Zisson, 2 Mound Road, brought to the attention of the board that Danvers had implemented solar
projects on some of their schools, with possible learnings for Marblehead.

Outstanding items from previous meetings
Residential Batteries
Commissioner Frechette proposed to rescind motion #2022-29 and moved to replace it with the following
text: “The Board recommends that to promote residential battery storage, MMLD allow connection of UL
Certified batteries installed following the requirements of the appropriate codes (Massachusetts building
and fire codes as they may apply, and specific Marblehead requirements, if any). Batteries enrolled in the
Connected Homes Program should receive a financial incentive as recommended by MMWEC for its
members to implement.” The motion was seconded by Commissioner Yarmoff.

Discussion: As background, on August 30, 2022 the Light Commission approved motion #2022-29 which
reads: “To promote residential battery storage, MMLD will discontinue its practice of denying

                                                                                                    1/14
interconnection permits, and allow batteries to connect, provided customers participate in a demand-
response program allowing MMLD or its agent to control dispatch to and charging from the grid.”
A question was previously raised about whether Tesla would be able to bid retail customers aggregated
demand response into the forward capacity market. Commissioner Wolf was able to resolve that
question and the answer to that interrogation is “No”, Tesla cannot aggregate Marblehead batteries,
because of ISO-NE rules concerning Muni territories. Hopefully, Tesla will participate in the future to
Connected Homes program. It is the battery of choice by consumers.
Commissioner Yarmoff remarked that the MMLD interconnection agreement can (and should) state
language that reinforces that residents that want to participate in an aggregation program must be part
of the Connected Homes program. This would bring an additional level of legal protection to MMLD in
asserting its MGL Chapter 164 privilege. A discussion ensued on the likelihood that a third party would
violate the ISO-NE rules and the Massachusetts law and the possibility to detect such violations in a
hypothetical situation. General Manager Joe Kowalik agreed that such a clause in the interconnection
agreement (preventing a resident from participating in an aggregation program not approved by MMLD
in view of Chap. 164 exclusivity clauses) would be a good protection to have. Justin Connell of MMWEC
added that this clause would prevent the monetization by any potential aggregator not authorized by
MMLD, and take away any potential incentives for residents to participate.
The General Manager pointed out that the proposed motion does two things: authorize batteries on the
one hand, recommend incentives for the batteries participating in an aggregation program on the other.
Shouldn’t these two aspects be dissociated and the motion amended? He reviewed the status of MLPs
participation in MMWEC’s incentives programs, shown on the first slide page 7. The level of participation
by MLPs and by residents is low, the program cannot be characterized as a success to date, why do we
want to join? Administration of the program for potentially only very few customers is a burden on
MMLD. Commissioner Smith remarked that these administrative costs are already incurred as we are
providing residents with a $30 monthly incentive. We are also providing incentives to residents
participating in the heat pump program. There would be only very limited additional administrative
burden to add the upfront incentive. With this motion, stating “… should receive a financial incentive …”,
the Commission recommends that as a matter of policy MMLD additionally provide rebates to battery
owners, to make the program a success.

Vote #2023-36 Motion was made by Commissioner Yarmoff and seconded by Commissioner Smith to
              vote and approve the following text: “The Board recommends that to promote
              residential battery storage, MMLD allow connection of UL Certified batteries installed
              following the requirements of the appropriate codes (Massachusetts building and fire
              codes as they may apply, and specific Marblehead requirements, if any). Batteries
              enrolled in the Connected Homes Program should receive a financial incentive as
              recommended by MMWEC for its members to implement.” Unanimous

Battery Program recommended incentives: This agenda item was discussed with the previous one.

Summary of EV Charging program
There have been changes in the EV Charger program administered by MMWEC that MMLD participates
in, which prompted a review of the program. MMWEC initially worked with ChargePoint, but the
program is now administered by the company Virtual Peaker. This shift created some unexpected
changes, such as preventing some of the 27 JuiceBox chargers from charging during peak hours rather
                                                                                                     2/14
than the anticipated Level 1 slower charging during these periods. The review also highlighted that while
residents could benefit from the incentive of a free charger in consideration of a 3 years participation in
the load management program, not all participants rolled over in the longer term program.
EV Chargers can also be enrolled in different programs: - either in the EV Scheduled Charging program,
in which case they are curtailed to Level 1 charging from 5 pm to 9 pm on non-holidays week days, daily;
or, - if they participate in the Connected Homes program curtailed during peak events, happening
several times a summer. Going forward, the program will distribute Charge Point chargers, and
curtailment can be to level 1. This is what the program is supposed to be now. Yet, some MMLD
documents on the web site seem to indicate curtailment to zero.
MMLD needs to clarify the details of the proposed program going forward: Frequency of curtailment,
(curtailing every day or only during peaks), level of curtailment. It would be beneficial for the program to
be organized so that the participants stay in it for longer than three years, unless they chose to drop out.
The discussion is postponed until a written description of the EV Charging program is presented to the
Commission.

NEPPA Conference Overview
In the interest of time, the chair proposes to forego the presentation and that commissioners interested
refer to the slides that have been distributed.
Several Commissioners participated in the conference, and their participation was paid for by MMLD.
Commissioner Yarmoff proposes that, for transparency purposes, a budget dedicated to the professional
development of Commissioners be authorized by the Commission on a yearly basis, and that at the end
of the year there should be a report on the use of such funds. Similarly, a budget for legal advice and
expenses of the board should be identified as well. Commissioner Yarmoff will propose a motion for the
board’s consideration at the next meeting.

Amendment to the General Manager Contract
It was agreed during the December 12, 2022 executive session meeting that the calendar for the goals of
the General Manager should be aligned with the calendar year (also the fiscal year of MMLD). Currently
the General Manager’s contract states that the timing for the goals is on an April to April basis. A simple
amendment to the contract is necessary to adjust the timelines. The Secretary of the Commission has
sent a draft version of this amendment to the General Manager, who indicated that he has reviewed the
proposed amendment, and that it is acceptable. From a process perspective, it is proposed that both the
General Manager and the Chair (on behalf of the board) sign the amendment at a later time.

Letter to DOER
DOER is conducting a study of Long Duration Energy Storage (LDES), as directed by law: an update to the
“State of charge” study that was conducted 7 years ago. DOER and MassCEC held two public sessions to
review the progress of the study, and asked for stakeholders comments. After discussions with MMLD’s
General Manager and with Reading’s General Manager, we wrote a joint letter to highlight three points,
sent to DOER on August 31:
  - Climate is not static, and future climate conditions should be taken into consideration, not only the
    harshest historical events;
  - EVs are going to represent a large amount of potential storage over the time horizon covered by the
    study, and options to mobilize that storage should be evaluated at;
  - Munis represent an exceptional way to test different business cases of Long Duration storage.
                                                                                                       3/14
Further, the Federal DOE has published a study on use cases of Long Duration storage, and the General
Manager and Commissioner Yarmoff are talking with one supplier of LDES to evaluate whether this
could be useful to Marblehead.

General Manager Updates
Solar on Schools
MMLD is evaluating installing solar panels on six schools in Marblehead (either solar alone or in
combination with storage). The potential benefit is not limited to electricity production: local solar
production also alleviates transmission and capacity charges, bills that MMLD has to pay. All costs savings
are directly passed on to all Marblehead customers. The potential for solar production from these sites is
summarized in the slide shown page 8. At a total of 2.3% of Marblehead’s total electricity consumption, this
is not negligible production, especially given the non-emitting and local nature of the electricity produced,
which has financial advantages noted above.
Due diligence is on-going, with a proposal to start with the Brown school. Commissioner Smith remarked
that it would be good to have MMLD’s Financial Director’s take on the project, given the various
spreadsheets that have been distributed to the Commissioners. As part of this due diligence, what
assumptions will make the numbers change? Total investment for a solar array with battery option is
around $2.5M. The vendor is also proposing a PPA option, which might make the project attractive from a
financing perspective, and that we need to evaluate separately. The financial benefits are not completely
captured by the “Net Levelized Cost of Energy”, NCOE, which does not incorporate the avoided costs of
transmission and capacity. While the NCOE allows to compare energy costs from different production
methods, the location where the electricity is produced is important and has an impact as well. This would
be “home-grown” energy that will alleviate costs that MMLD would have to pay.
- One of the most impactful of these is the evolution of the price of RECs over time. This evolution is
tricky to assess as the evolution of prices will depend on policies of the New England states, which are
getting stricter meaning that there are more buyers for RECs (with New Hampshire potentially setting
new policies), while on-shore and off-shore wind projects will generate more RECs. We are evaluating
the project with both current prices continuing over the life of the project, or much more conservative
assumptions if early large scale production of RECs from wind farms does take place.
- Another impactful assumption is the level of interest rates moving forward, as the project economics
will depend on financing possibilities. A community solar type of program might allow to lower the
financing costs.
The timeline of the project depends on meetings with the School Committee and Select Board, when we
have a finalized proposal. The last formal meeting with the School was in August 2021, and MMLD has
been moving forward under the oral agreement that was reached at the time. Construction on the roof
does not have to take place during the summer. Whether MMLD go to bid on this project, if a decision
to move forward is taken, is the subject of legal considerations that will be discussed in Executive
session. Separately, we should make sure the Select Board is aware of these projects as – these activities
will benefit the town as a whole; - but also, there are several public buildings (not schools) where solar
panels could also be installed.
Next steps:
- scheduling a meeting with the school board, ideally before Thanksgiving;
- reviewing all options in writing, with an opinion from the finance director of MMLD, by next meeting.

                                                                                                     4/14
Utility-Scale Battery Electric Storage System (BESS)
The objectives of this project is to lower our transmission and capacity payments to ISO-NE, which will
generate savings to ratepayers estimated as a Net Present Value of $9.8M. An ancillary benefit is lower
GHG emissions coming from lower reliance on emitting peaker plants. We are currently looking for the
best site suitable for this 5 MW / 20 MWh battery (a site of roughly 15,000 square feet). Proximity to the
Village 13 substation will lower connection costs as there are positions in the switch gear to directly
interconnect the battery to the distribution backbone. It is also of interest to Delorean as expressed in
contractual terms: Marblehead has the highest financial share among participating MLPs in similar
projects (page 11). MMLD is evaluating whether a site on Vine Street under the Recreation and Park
jurisdiction might be a possibility (see aerial view, possible connection and foot print on site, p 9). The
Tioga Way site remains a possibility. The red areas on the Tioga Way plot could host the battery, see p 10.
There are several contractual agreements that need to be put in place to make this project work, as
shown on page 9. At this stage, the GM has been focusing on the site agreement, and selecting the site,
as without a site we do not have a project. MMLD has received drafts for the other agreements.

Fence around 80 Commercial Street
Bids were received, Premier Fence is the lowest bid, and MMLD will enter into a contract with the
company. See page 11.

Financial Operations – July 2023
Energy sales (kWh) were on line with forecast and budget, but total $ sales were lower because of the 2
cent reduction of the PPA in June. MMLD continue to have a good operating cash position of $5.7M at
the end of July. See slides page 11 and 12. Adjusted Net Income at the end of July is $1.115M.
Because of the variations in investments results between 2021 and 2022, we can expect the expenses
for pensions and OPEB for 2023 to be higher than the numbers we received from the town for the 2022
exercise (and expect 2023 numbers to be in line with what we have forecasted). Looking at the financials
for July 2023, one can notice a sizable increase of interest income: the treasurer has moved some of
MMLD funds from the National Grand Bank to the Eastern Banks and we are receiving higher returns on
our funds as a result.
A discussion of MMLD capital expenses took place: there are still some uncertainties with regards to
some of the contracts for the Village 13 substation upgrade, but if one takes into account the funds
which will be needed for all coming expenses, the Capital Expenditure fund is not so largely endowed. As
we are putting in place a plan to catch up on deferred maintenance of our distribution network, the
Commission will be attentive to the capital needed. MMLD is currently accruing into the Capital
Expenditure fund at 5% depreciation rate, which is the maximum we can as per DPU rules. Another
constraint is that net income cannot exceed 8% of MMLD’s plant equipment value. This number is
around $3.2M, is a big number: we are not close. Projecting to Year end of 2023, and including the PILOT
payment to the town of $330K, we are anticipating Adjusted Net Income at year end to reach $331K.

Vote #2023-37 Chair Wolf moved the motion to transfer $330,000 from MMLD 2022 operating revenue
Surplus to the Town of Marblehead, motion seconded by Commissioner Yarmoff. Unanimous.




                                                                                                     5/14
Organization
The current organization chart is shown on page 13. MMLD is organized with one Finance Manager, one
Distribution Manager and one Technical Services Manager reporting to the General Manager, as shown.
Since 2022, we have had two positions budgeted for staff increase. With one extra departure this year,
we have now three open positions.
New organization: At this stage, MMLD is proposing the following organization with three new positions,
keeping the organization flat, as shown below (p 13).
Capital Improvements Project Manager: MMLD is facing many projects, some on-going and more that
need to be managed. We have also new categories of assets coming in town that need to be managed
appropriately. This person could have engineering qualifications.
Energy services Manager: This position is turned towards customers rather than infrastructure, and it
will have a strong marketing component. MMLD has many programs that are geared towards residents,
such as the EV charging program. The responsibility of looking for and following up on grants will also be
with this person.
GIS/IT Tech Specialist: MMLD has an acute need of a GIS system expert, as well as for a person
responsible for the maintenance and integration of our IS and communication systems.
Next steps: The proposed new organization was shared with MMLD staff today. Position descriptions
need to be developed for these positions. Energy Services position is an evolution from the previous
position we were considering (Sustainability Manager), and is essentially ready. For the other two
positions, MMLD needs to build the job descriptions.
Commissioner Smith remarked that the plan seems to be well thought through. Implementation is
launched, starting with discussions with the staff. But we need to have commitment to make this
happen and an end date: having the new organization in place by the end of the year would be a
reasonable deadline. Otherwise, as we have seen in the past, things can slip, these positions have been
discussed for over a year. A recruitment agency will be very useful to both source candidates and sort
through the first steps of the process. Commissioner Yarmoff strongly encouraged the General Manager
to get outside help for this process, and offered to vote on a budget to this end. Chair Wolf gave the
General Manager the name of a firm that has already worked on recruiting people of this caliber and
would be turnkey for this process. Having a recruitment agency on board will help make sure the
process is on track in a timely manner.

Town Right of Way Improvement Project
The General Manager explained MMLD’s position with regards to the Right of Way improvement
project, summarized on the last two slides below.

Go Green Now rate
Given the market value of RECs and the evolution of the power portfolio of MMLD, the General
Manager proposes to reduce the opt-in rate charge for all Go Green Now participants from 2.2 cents to
2.0 cents per kilowatt-hour. Go Green Now is considered an official rate by the Department, and as for
every rate change, a vote of the Commission is requested prior to filing the new rate with DPU. This new
rate is to be effective October 1, 2023. At this stage, there are 56 customers of which one commercial
customer, who pay on average about $160 a year to participating.

Vote #2023-38 Commissioner Smith moved the motion to reduce the opt-in rate for all Go Green Now!
              Participants from 2.2 cents to 2.0 cents per kwh, effective October 1, 2023, seconded by
              Commissioner Frechette. Unanimous.
                                                                                                     6/14
Executive Session
Chair Lisa Wolf proposed a motion to enter Executive Session Motion to discuss trade secrets or
confidential or proprietary information regarding activities of a governmental body as energy supplier,
municipal aggregator or energy cooperative, if an Open Session will adversely affect conducting business
relative to other entities making, selling or distributing energy. Not to return to Open Session. Motion
moved by Commissioner Yarmoff and seconded by Commissioner Frechette.
Vote: Simon Frechette: Yes; Adam Smith: Yes; Lisa Wolf: Yes; Jean-Jacques Yarmoff: Yes.
Executive Session started at 6:05 pm.

The Executive Session concluded at 7:12 pm at which point a motion to adjourn was proposed,
seconded and after a roll call of commissioners with unanimous result, adopted.

                                                   ----****----

                Documents presented during September 5 Light Commission Meeting




                             MMWEC Residential Battery Programs
               Number of MLDs in 2023 MMWEC Energy Efficiency
               Programs                                                 21

               Number of MLDs in NextZero Connected Homes ( CH)                       I
               Program                                                  14

               Number of MLD's offering a Residential Battery Rebate
               ($100/kWh; eligible size range 7.5 kWh to 20 kWh)         s
                                                                       2now;
               ParticipatingBatteryManufacturers                       4 soon   =:;.=.,~   <l'·

               Number of CustomersReceivinga ResidentialBattery
               Rebate                                                    0
               Number of Customersw/ a ResidentialBatteryEnrolled
               in NCH($30/mo)                                            2




                              Agenda - General Manager Items

               5:00 General Manager Items
               1. Solar on Schools
               2. Utility Scale Battery update
               3. 80 Commercial St- Fence and Gates
               4. YTD Financial Update - Matt Barrett ...lnclude VOTEon Surplus
                  Payment to the Town
               5. Current MMLD Organization Chart & Proposed Changes
               6. Town ROW improvements, Salem ROW bridges & Access Control
               7. BOARDVOTE: Go Green Now! Rate reduction 2.2 to 2.0 cents/kWh



                                                                                                   7/14
                  Solar on Schools

• 6 Schools total under evaluation for solar PV-only, and 4 Schools
  total for solar PV plus on-site battery
• Solar PV plus on-site battery option significantly increases cost per
  site, but also increases the economic benefits generated at the
  site ...carbon-free energy plus the potential to lower the MMLD
  monthly ISO-NEtransmission bill and lower the monthly charge for
  capacity payments for a year. All such cost savings are directly
    passed on to all Marblehead customers.
• Continuing due diligence on analyzing the model assumptions and
  financial forecasts ...
• Process for gaining Town agreement next...




                    Solar PV on Schools
                                                        Solar P
                                                      Nameplate   25-year Average Energy
                  olar PV                        Ca aci  KW de       Production (kWh/ r)
                 Brown Elementary                           247                 260,959
                 Marblehead HS                              749                 784,690
                 Village School                             695                 703,293
                 Veterans Middle School                     389                 401,123
                 Glover School                              216                 217,097
                 Marblehead Charter                          88                  90,467
                                                          2,384               2,457,629


                 2022 MMLD Actual Wholesale Energy Supply (kWh)              106,610,000
                 Percent of 2022 Actual Energy Supply                              2.3%




              Utility-Scale Battery Electric Storage System (BESS)

•   Project objective: to lower our transmission and capacity payments to ISO-NEfor
    the next 20 years
• MMWEC analysis indicates we can save ratepayers $9.8 million over 20 years
•   Additional benefit: Reduce run-time of higher polluting peaker plants
• We need a site suitable for the 5 MW/20 MWh bat't~ry...
    - An area 150 feet x 100 feet = 15,000 square feet
•   Preferred location: Proximity to Village 13 substation, to directly connect to new
    switchgear. Evaluating a storage/open space site under Rec and Park Dept. control
•   Next Step: Rec and Park Board meeting on Weds 9/6 will discuss giving MMLD
    approval to access the site to determine the feasibility of a battery installation.




                                                                                           8/14
                     MMWEC BESSDeal Structure


I
1


2
              Document

         Memo of Understanding
    Definitive Agreement (Board Vote-
             GM Authorization)
    Administrative Services Agreement
                                          Status
                                        Completed-
                                         late 2022
                                        Completed-
                                          1/2023
                                        Completed-
                                                     MMWEC

                                                       xx

                                                       xx
                                                             --
                                                             xx
                                                                              Battery Vendor -
                                                                              Delorean Power

                                                                                        xx



3                  (ASA)                  1/2023       xx         xx
    Energy Storage Services Agreement
3                 (ESSA)                               X     X    xx                    xx
s            Site Agreement                            X     X    xx                    xx
6      Interconnection Agreeemnt                       X     X    xx                    xx

            XX - Signing Party
           X - Supporting Party




                                                                            MeasurementResutt

                                                                       Total : 450.2 Feet
                                                                       Segment : 0 Feet
                                                                           ment azimuth : o•




                                                                                                 9/14
    Area need ~1so ft xlOO ft = 15,000 sq ft
                                            -~    acama•mo
                                               ~,•a■a  I ......,,.,,,.,,,_,.
                                                                     I
                                                                              SqFee~



                                                           15,377.3 Sq Feet             I
                                                                              11:11
                                                                              •         I
                     ,•                                                           . 11
                ,•
                                                                              .._,.
                                                                                 , I
                                                                                       YI
                                                 }"                               •     I
                               .,                                                       j


                     '
                           .., 'I

                          ~l         '·/
           Utility Scale Battery Storage System

• Tioga Way remains a second preference location, due to
  distance from Village 13 and tE!rrain




                MMLD Parcel on Tioga Way/Hood's Lane




                                                  ,_
                                               02550     100
                                               w.J..u..J




                                                                                            10/14
               MMWEC Behind the Meter Battery
               Program Participants and Shared Savings
                                                                   MW      MWh       MLP Share
                                                   Boylston•        3       8.1           54.2%
                                                   Chicopee         5      20.3           52.8%
                                                  Georgetown        3       8.1           54.2%
                                                    Holden          3       8.1           54.8%
                                                     Hull           4      16.3           48.8%
                                                    Ipswich         5      20.3           52.8%
                                                  Marblehead        5      20.3           56.3%
                                                    Paxton•         2       6.1           43.6%
                                                   Peabody          5      20.3           50.1%
                                                  Princeton•        2       6.1           42.9%
                                                    Rowley          3       8.1           54.8%
                                                  Shrewsbury        5      20.3           50.1%
                                                  Wakefield         5      20.3           54.3%




                 80 Commercial St Fence & Gates Rebid

• Premier Fence LLC.,Canton, MA is the lowest price bidder

                                                                           Alternatives

                                                  Percent
                                 Variation from    from          1- Deduct chain 2-Add Seawall
        Vendor        Bid           Average       Average        link fence      Railing

 1   GVW              $406,080         $39,622           11%             -$6,000              $50,000

 2   Parker Fence     $384,500         $18,042              5%           -$9,000              $89,400

     Premier
 3   Fence           $308,795        -$57,663          -16%             -$3,572             $43,772




                 Financial Operations- July 2023

• kWh sales of 9.4 million were in line with the budget of 9.5
  million
• Sales were off $190.9K due to the .02 cent PPAreduction in
  June (beginning with the June billing, PPAwas reduced from
  .025 cents to .005 cent)
• Power costs continue to come in lower than the actual budget
  and MMWEC's subsequent updates.
• Our operating cash position: $5.7 million as of 7/31/2023




                                                                                                        11/14
           JULY2023 YTD Actual Financials
                                                                           ~
                 Total kWh Revenue                                         $12,575
                 Street Lighting                                               $29
                 Misc Revenue                                                  $22
                 Interest Income                                              lli5.
                                        Total Revenue                       $12,781

                 Operations Expense                           $4,391
                 Power Costs                                  Sl.lli
                                        Total Expenses                      $11666
                                            Net Income                       $1,115
                 Adjustments:
                 Rate Stabilization Fund Transfer                  $0
                 Grant Proceeds                                    $Q
                                   Total Adjustments                             $0
                                Adjusted Net Income                          $1,115




           Projected Year-end* 2023 Operating Statement
                                                                        (S000'sl
            Total Projected kwh Revenue..                               $21,475
            Street Lighting                                                 $52
            Misc Revenue                                                    $32
            Interest Income                                               $ill_
                                   Total Revenue                        $21,824

            Total Projected Expenses•                    $21,163
            PILOTPayment to Town                           ill.Q
                               Total Expenses                           $21,493
                                  Net Income                               $331
            Adjustments:
            Rate Stabilization Fund Transfer                 $0
            Grant Proceeds                                   $Q
                                Total Adjustments                           $0
                              Adjusted Net Income                         $331

            • Does Not Include final Pension and OPEBexpenses
            •• Continue with the current .00S cent PPA




           YTD FinancialUpdate - Matt Barrett

• VOTE:to transfer $330,000 from MMLD 2022 operating
  revenue surplus to the Town of Marblehead.
• (Normally done in March, but delayed due to Town delays in
  calculating MMLD OPEBand Retirement obligations.)




                                                                                      12/14
                                                                                         JoeK-iik

                                                                                       """'"-


                                                  ...
                                               MeganMilan
                                          leadCUSIOITlefSetvice
                                                                                           __
                                                                                         Gr-VChane
                                                                                      Dlstrb.cloo ManAgeJ


                                                                                                      ...
                                                                                             Paul camatd,,
                                                                                                                     1Tech~~1




                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                  JKkRavagno
                                                                                                                                SubstallOOS,Mainl



                                                                                                                                    DktiRubano
                                                                                                                                 lffdMel:erTech




                                                                  i
                                                                                           Man Katakoudas
                                                                                            LHdls1eman


                                                                                              .,,.u..on
                                                                                           Lineman 1st Class
                                                                                                                            ---
                                                                                                                             -     PaulSOrette




                                                                                                                              Nale Kobialka
                                                                                                                          lNd Elec Wily Gen Tech
      Marblehead Municipal Light Department
                                                                                              s.cottKent
               Current Organization                                                        lnmantstClass
                 September 2023
                                                                                             Adam Bernard
                                                                                           L>,eman2ndC1a>,


                                                                                             John Ragusa
                                                                                           """""''""a.,,


                                                                                                ,...,...
                                                                                           .........
                                                                                             T't'evo,Conroy




                                                              I
                                                              .
                                                                        JoeK-iik
                                                                      ~,ilM.-.ager



  ......... I                                                                                  __             ., I
FNnee........   .
                                                        1-~-1                                GISIITTechSpeoellisl




i""~~1                    --, .. c.m-o.


                                                                       -
                                                                    .JaekRav-ono
                                                                  ~Sr         .....


                                                                    Didi Rubano
                                                                   LeedMetefTec::11

                                                                      .........
                             ,,,.......
                                                                  ---
                                                                   -
                          """""'"'°"'
                                                                                              r        Marblehead Municipal Light Department
                                                                                                              Proposed Organization
                                                                                                                 September 2023
                            --M
                          Unlm;in2ndCla$$


                           -co-,
                          ""'"'"""'au,

                              ...,,._
                          """""""'"""



0                   Town Right of Way Improvement Project

• MMLD sees no benefit to widening Lead Mills' two bridges,
  only additional risk of unauthorized 4-wheel motorized
  vehicles crossing the bridges ...
• One bollard at each end of the two bridges is sufficient ...while
  ensuring widest passable opening is maximum of 64 inches
• MMLD sees a public safety and MMLD employee benefit by
  replacing the culvert on the Salem ROW between West Shore
  Drive and Lead Mills, currently covered by two (unstable) metal
  plates



                                                                                                                                                    13/14
MMLD   Proposed New Gate Design for the Salem and Swampscott                       ROWs protecting
                   critical MMLD Distribution System Assets

Design approach:
• A 5-foot center opening, wide enough for walkers, joggers, bikers, wheel chairs and
  baby carriages, but too narrow for a car to drive through
• Highly visible yellow metal gates locked into position, that can be unlocked and
  swung open when authorized MMLD and other Town vehicles need quick access to
  the ROW. Gates are to be set back 40-80 feet from the street or sidewalks
     o Village 13 Substation - 3 gates: placed at West Shore Drive, Maverick St., and
        Bessom St.
     o Riser Poles at Lead Mills- 2 gates: 1 gate at West Shore Drive, 1 gate at
        Lafayette St entrance at Lead Mills
• Also, remove one existing bollard from each end of the Lead Mills Wet Bridge
                                   Consistent 5-foot center
                                   opening for walkers,
                                   runners and bikers

       6-9 foot left gate varies                              6-9 foot right gate varies
       based on ROW width                                     based on ROW width




                     Go Green Now! Rate Reduction VOTE


                                                   • Given the current mkt value of
                                                     RECsand MMLD's 2022
                                                     percentage of carbon-free
                                                     electricity, the rate we charge
                                                     for opt-in participants can be
                                                     reduced from 2.2 cents to 2
                                                     cents per kilowatt-hour.



                                           ----****----




                                                                                                     14/14
