Light Commission April 30, 2024 meeting minutes
To:             Light Commission: Commissioners
                Light Department: J. Kowalik, General Manager
From:           Jean-Jacques Yarmoff, Secretary
Date:           May 31, 2024
Re:             Light Commission Meeting, April 30, 2024



A quorum being present, Chair Wolf brought the meeting to order at 4:04 pm. The meeting was held in
person and with remote internet access, both available to public participation. A recording of the
meeting is made available to the public at the following link.

Participated in meeting:
     Commissioners:          Commissioners Frechette, Smith, Wolf and Yarmoff participated in person.
                             Commissioner Hull was excused.
      Light Department:      General Manager, J. Kowalik.

Marblehead Land Acknowledgment declaration was read by Commissioner Frechette.

Comments from the Public
Albert Jordan, Roosevelt Ave, commented on
        - pole replacement: the fact that there is a double pole at a busy intersection is a hazard as it
        prevents clean light of sight, and
        - lights remain on in the Public Library: can somebody do something about it?
        General Manager response: there is a sequence to moving wires, and MMLD seems to have done
        its part with regards to the pole in question.
        Post Meeting Note: The General Manager exchanged with the director of the Public Library, who
        explained that, as it is still a work site, lights have to remain on; the status of the building will
        change shortly.
Sue Wigglesworth and other abutters on Lincoln Ave were interested in understanding better the
situation of the planned work on the Tioga way parcel. See below.

Approval of minutes of previous meetings
The minutes of the executive meetings of September 5, 2023 and October 24, 2023 have been approved
by e-mail exchanges since the last board meeting.
The minutes for the January 30, 2024 public session, January 30, executive session and February 27
public session have been sent to the commissioners for review prior to this meeting.
Vote #2024-08             Motion to approve the minutes of the January 30, public session, January 30,
                          executive session and February 27 public session was moved by Commissioner
                          Frechette and seconded by Commissioner Smith. Unanimous.




                                                                                                       1/12
Outstanding items from previous meetings
Tioga way schedule. This will be part of the General Manager updates later in the meeting.
Monthly Financial Reports. The Business Manager, Matt Barrett proposed a new format for the monthly
financial reports that takes into account the previous request of commissioners: it now shows both the
actuals and the yearly forecast. This is very helpful to follow the financials of the Light Department month
to month as business evolves during the year.


MIT Sloan School presentation - Time of Use study
Firanza Fadilla is an MBA student at the MIT Sloan School, working with the Sustainability Lab, who has
been focusing on strategies to encourage Marblehead residents to shift consumption: he is presenting his
work, a few days before graduation. The enclosed slides explain: a) the Problem statement; b) Proposed
Improvements; c) Results from data analysis; d) results from an online survey of Marblehead residents.
Key takeaways from the work are shown on slide page 9:
    1. Communication is key. Having multiple channels of communication to promote programs,
       changes, alerts and provide clear, understandable explanations is essential to educate people and
       prevent misinformation;
    2. Implementation of dynamic pricing involves several considerations: fitting the wholesale price
       pattern to better incentivize customers to shift and managing complexity. As the goal is to induce
       behavior change, preparation for implementation could take years, involving data exploration and
       pilot projects before launching the program;
    3. Customers emphasize the publication and advertisement of programs, especially for home
       batteries and solar systems as part of the solution. They also highlight the importance of usage
       monitoring and advocate for adjusting the rate structure based on survey results.
Commissioners and MMLD staff were invited to participate in the poster review session that will take
place at the MIT Sloan School on May 8: the General Manager and Commissioner Yarmoff indicated that
they would like to participate.


DOE Prize - Application for geothermal network project
The Marblehead Housing Authority is working on a project to build about 100 new units at Broughton Rd.
There are efficiency goals but geothermal is not mandated, even though it might be the most energy
efficient way to heat and cool the building. Logan Casey found out that a DOE prize could help finance the
study of such a project: as MMLD does not have the bandwidth to organize such a project currently (with
high priority projects of rebuilding Village 13 substation and the Tioga way Utility Scale battery) a group of
residents organized to apply to this DOE prize, highlighting innovative technologies to store energy,
studying MMLD potentially selling energy, and possibly controlling the geothermal loop as an energy
storage system and a way to continue to lower rates.
If such a project were possible at Broughton road, it could become a blueprint on how to run geothermal
projects in town. To our knowledge, there is one electric utility in Oklahoma that has incentivized many
(thousands!) geothermal projects, while in MA, Eversource and National Grid are each studying one pilot
(in Framingham and Lowell).
If we win the DOE prize, the Housing Authority would be the recipient of the money for the project
highlighted (see slide page 9). Answer after May 16.


                                                                                                       2/12
General Manager Updates

Village 13 update The landbridge components (to protect the sewer pipe) have been delivered. During
installation, large rocks were found that could have affected the sewer pipes if moved. Concrete was
poured in situ in two trenches and the bridge installed on this foundation. The distribution manager
Greg Chane organized to get help from line crews from Danvers, Brooklyn and Middleton to relocate the
high-tension wires. It is now possible to receive the transformers at any time. The date to receive the
transformers has shifted from May 6 and we do not have a definite date for delivery. Testing will take
place at Virginia Transformer’s facility and is not yet scheduled.

Tioga Way. Surveyors started working last week to create a detailed survey of the plot, mapping the parts
that are wetland. We will receive this detailed survey from Bayside Engineering in the next few weeks.
From this, MMLD will be able to determine areas to accommodate the utility scale battery contemplated,
as well as the department’s storage areas (for poles, …). Details of how to prepare the site for the battery
have yet to be worked out (stilts / slab, …) Drainage of the site is also an issue that could be mitigated with
this project. Next steps will be:
- receiving a detailed survey; - evaluating possible battery locations; - studying access to the site.
Residents who are abutters are encouraging MMLD to discuss the plan for the development of the site
earlier rather than later. The Light Department has organized public meetings in the past for other issues
and will plan one to hold such a meeting to inform abutters and residents.

Grants. Massachusetts did not meet the threshold for FEMA grant disaster relief after the January 2024
storms. CZM Grant, see next paragraph. Separately, MMLD is participating in a DOE Grid Resilience and
Innovation Partnership (GRIP) grant, in a project involving several other municipal light plants, Taunton,
Hingham, Braintree, Concord and Middletown (ENE communities) and Wakefield, Peabody and Marblehead
(MMWEC coordination). A further coordination meeting regarding this grant request will take place on May
14th, at which point next steps will become clear. MMLD is currently requesting over $16M for projects
shown on slide page 11, (solar rooftop, solar canopy and level 3 bus EV charging).

Fence at 80 Commercial street. The project is on-going. As the fence area along the sidewalk was
cleared, it became obvious that there is no retaining wall or other structures to mark the property side
of the sidewalk, see pictures on page 12. This will have to be rebuilt, using the precast supports for the
land bridge that were not used at Village 13. In addition, a monopole will be given to the project to hold
up the gangway to the commercial dock, freeing up the sidewalk completely. While timing is tight, the
project is on track to be completed by June 30.

National Grid forecasts. The General Manager participated in a meeting with National Grid to update
the load projections in our geographic area (which includes Salem and Swampscott), see slide page 12.
Unlike prior meetings where the update to forecasts largely caused by new developments, the changes
are now caused by the on-going electrification of transportation and building heating and cooling. While
Marblehead would have liked to understand the 15 year planning methodology used by NG for
Swampscott (which would likely be applicable to Marblehead), the forecasting team was not part of this
meeting. National Grid, while well aware that all of Marblehead electricity comes from a Salem
substation, had no comment with regards to resiliency or battery storage plans.

Hiring updates. MMLD made an offer to fill the IT position to Chris Dunbar, offer which was accepted.
Chris will start in his position on July 1st. The General Manager is now looking at the Engineering position
for which a job position description has been drafted and shared with the commission.
                                                                                                        3/12
Executive Session Chair Lisa Wolf proposed to enter Executive Session Motion to conduct strategy
sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel. Not to return to Open Session.
Motion was moved by Commissioner Yarmoff and seconded by Commissioner Frechette.
Votes: Simon Frechette: Yes; Adam Smith: Yes; Lisa Wolf: Yes; Jean-Jacques Yarmoff: Yes.
Executive Session started at 6:04 pm.
The Executive Session concluded at 7:01 pm at which point a motion to adjourn was proposed,
seconded and, after a roll call of the four commissioners present voting unanimously in favor, adopted.

                                                     ----****----


                Documents presented during the April 30, 2024 Light Commission Meeting




                                   MIT SustainableBusinessLab
                                Marblehead LightCommissionProject
                                              MMLD
                                         April 30 th , 2024
                                                                                 _J
              Firanza Fadilla
              SCM2024
                                                                    MIT
                                                                    MANAGEMENT
                                                                                 O   MITSLOA,.
                                                                                     Sustainability
                                                                                     Initiative
            '""v?,f.iieir">




                     Outline
                     1. Problem Statement

                     2. Hypothesis for Improvement

                     3. Data Analysis

                    4. Survey Results

                     5. Key Takeways




                                                                                                      4/12
    Problem statement
    MMLD identifies lowering the current peak demand up to 10% as a critical issue to lower GHG
    emissions, and to cut reliance on high-priced electricity (energy, transmission, and capacity).

    Why?

         lower the overall price

         prevent additional GHG-generating peaking electricity generation

         limit infrastructure upgrades in Marblehead

         contribute to reduced GHG emissions

         achieve goal to reach 85% GHG-free electricity by 2033



                                                                                                                       , 0   Sustolnobility
                                                                                                                             11\ltkrtlve




    Go, see, and assess
    • Through interviews, literature reviews, and site visit, it has been revealed that there is an opportunity to move towards the
     implementation of dynamic pricing as a solution to shift peak electricity consumption.

    • Time of Use pricing has been implemented in Groton and has successfully shifted their peak consumption.

    Identify Root Causes

    • MMLD has infrastructure for implementing dynamic pricing (AMI meters, data), but data at a more granular level has not been
     explored yet; data is currently retrieved for billing as monthly consumption data. On the other side, MMLD lacks the labor
     specializing particularly in preparation to implement, including roles such as project manager, IT,and communication.

    • MMLD has programs to shift consumers' behavior: e.g. WiFi thermostat and EV fast charger incentives, but with a low adoption
     rate.

    • MMLD has not identified customers' perspectives and acceptance towards dynamic pricing (specifically, Time of Use pricing to
     replace their current fixed rate scenario).




..m.,
~·,v,·,•                                                                                                               , 0   Sustainability
                                                                                                                             lnltkrt"'9




    Proposed improvement

                                                                                                       TECHNOLOGY
                PRICING                                   BEHAVIORAL




                 Interviews                                 Interviews
               Data Analysis                             CustomersSurvey




                                                                                                                             ~tolnabillty
                                                                                                                             lnlUotl'ff




                                                                                                                                              5/12
    Key takeaways from interviews
    Interviews with MMWEC, Groton/GELD, Qilowatt, and MIT Sloan Instructors ...
    What?
    • Town that has high adoption in incentive programs tends to have higher acceptance in dynamic pricing.
    • The challenge for a town in dynamic pricing: installing AMI meters (expensive) while maintaining low rates.
    • Groton is a town in Massachusetts that has already implemented exclusive dynamic pricing (Time-of-Use) of
      electricity by far and spent six years to prepare for implementation.
    Haw?
    • Dynamic pricing scenarios in electricity could be determined by the one that is closer to wholesale price.
    • Method to formulate dynamic pricing: (1) analyzing energy market data; (2) easy rate to understand but
      shows the market prices change effectively; (3) utilize smart meters data; (4) analyze demographics
    • In determining compulsory/opt-in/opt-out:                (1) acceptability, (2) consumers responsiveness, (3) equity and
      fairness
    • Compulsory; if it is regulated by the state, for example in California and Colorado. Opt-in for bigger cities,
     e.g. Chicago.
..•~~
,




    Why dynamic pricing?
    Learn from Groton ...                                                              • GELD is one of the first utilities in
                                                                                         New England to implement exclusive
                                                                                         dynamic pricing.
                                                                                       • The implementation took six years,
                                                                                         including three years of data analysis
                                                                                         with a consultant, a three-year pilot

         ~-
                         .            .
        Welcometo the GrotonElectricUsagePortal!

               - ..... c"".· ··-:· •··:.:                    ~
                                                      tre OOWff
                                                                                         project, and full implementation
                                                                                         over the past eight months.
                                                                                       • The pilot project involved the
                                                                                         division of the community into six
                       11l11=-=~tt­
            111111111111111                                                              control groups. There was pushback
                                                                                         from customers with high usage.
                             ____________           :-==---        ==--= - __,;:;;_    • Effective communication through
                                                                                         multiple channels is key. This
                                                                                         includes electricity usage monitoring
                             -•&i'MEtiiM
                                 BPM- 4PM Off-Puk      SO.OS             $0.07
                                                                                         and a newsletter         with   clear
                                                                                         explanations.
        -                         4PM - 8PM Peak       $0.50             $0.43
                                                                                                                              Sust~noblllty
                                                                                                                              lnltlat.lv•




                                                                                        Mir
                                                                                        MANAGEMENT
                                                                                                        O    MITSLO~N
                                                                                                             Sustainability
                                                                                                              Initiative




            Data Analysis




                                                                                                                                              6/12
    Why data analysis?
    Dynamic Pricing Types
        Real-Time Pricing (RTP): electricity rates fluctuate throughout the day based on actual market conditions
    •   Time-of-Use (TOU): varies the cost depending on the time of day
    •    Critical Peak Pricing (CPP): significantly increases rates during periods of exceptionally high demand
    ... and many morel (mix, Critical Peak Rebates, Variable Peak Pricing, Hourly Pricing, Demand Charges, etc.)

    Data Analysis
    Objective:
       to determine whether the hourly Time-of-Use pricing scenario throughout the day accurately replicates the
        shape of the wholesale price pattern as determined by ISO·NEusing Spearman coefficient metric
        to provide a qualitative description of three key aspects: the suitability of real-time pricing, the variety of
        dynamic pricing types, and the complexity of scenarios related to the implementation of dynamic pricing.
    Input Data: ISO-NEDay Ahead Pricing 2011·2022, Groton Pricing Data
    Literature: (1) Electricity Retail Rate Design in Decarbonizing Power Systems: A Cross-country Analysis of Time-of-use
    Rates (Reboul, 2023) (2) Electricity Retail Rate Design in a Decarbonizing Economy: An Analysis of Time-of-Use and
    Critical Peak Pricing (Schittekatte, et. al., 2022)


Ml!..                                                                                                                                                                      ,. 0   Svstolnobillty
                                                                                                                                                                                  lnltlotlve




    What the literature says...
    ISO-NEutilizes22% of its resourcemix from renewablesand hydro,with hydro itself accountingfor 10% of the total resourcemixlaJ.

                      Hydro•domlnated syst~
                   YearlySpearmanCOITf:lationlW                            Dally~~:-:,,~,!!;!;!_.                         •IIyears•   g
                                                                                                                                      10.70



                                                                                                                                      lot,



i                                                                                                                                     }uo
                                                                                                                                      tJon
                                                                                                                                               •




L                             the 3-period optimized
                                   ToUmodel VSRTP
                                                                                                the 3-period optimized
                                                                                                     ToUmodel 11S RTP
                                                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                                                      &•~
                                                                                                                                      I       ~-----~,------,--,
                                                                                                                                                         -~lnteNIIUpdatH
             -         FR    -        ISONE                                     -       FR      -           ISONE     -        SE3
                                                                 ... ,i...,.-,---,.,-,-.,,.,-,..,.,,--,,.--,.,---,,,..,.....,1
                                                                                              DayolU..¥9¥



                                                                                                    TOU design with three within-day periods, two day-types,
                                                                                                    and twa seasons strikes a balance between design
                                                                                                    simplicity and accuracy in reflecting wholesale price
                                                                                                    patterns<•!.

        (a) ISO ~ EnJland,2023                                                                                                                                                    S...,stolnobility
        (b) Reboul,2023                                                                                                                                                           lnltkrthl•




    What the data says...
    Spearman correlation between ISO-NEday-ahead hourly pricingvs Groton Time-of-Use pricing


                                                                                                    j
         C

         ~       0.4
                                                                                                    I   0.46




         ii      02
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                        0.44




         u
         ~ -0.2
                 0.0

                                       GrotonToUPridnc
                                       Dff•PeX
                                                                                                    l°"
                                                                                                    10.40



         l-a.4
                                       ....
                                       8PM- 4PM • SO.OS
                                                 (Dl!cember-M.chj = S0.07
                                       WinterR.111!
                                       4PM-8PM•S0.SO
                                       WinterR.ltl!IDl!cembl!r
                                                            - M¥chl • S0.43
                                                                                                    t   0.38
                                                                                                    i
                                 SO     100    150     200    250          300        3S0                      20112012 2013201-( 2015 20162017 2018 2019202020212022      2023
                                              Day of the Year
                                                                                                                                              "'"
         Key Takeaways:
            The efficient TOUschemereflects the dynamicsof wholesaleelectricitymarketsand providesconsumerswith the
           right incentivesto shift their demand.
           A simplerTOUscenariodoesnot accuratelycapture the pattern of wholesaleprices,as evidencedby a lower
           Spearmancorrelationcoefficient,indicatinga trade-off between simplicityand precision.
                                                                                                                                                                                   Sustainability
                                                                                                                                                                                   Initiative




                                                                                                                                                                                                      7/12
Online survey overview
                                                                           Divided into five sections:
                                                                           1. Customer Participation in Electricity

                                                                                Incentive Programs
                                                                           2. Electricity Consumption Awareness
                                -1,300 contacts                            3. Electricity Consumption Behavior
                                69 respondents (5.3%)
                                6 days (Apr 23rd-28th, 2024)               4. UnderstandingPricingScenarios:Fixed vs.
                                                                                Dynamic Electricity Rates

                                                                           5. Customer Participation Preferencesin

                                                                                Dynamic ElectricityPricingPrograms




                                                                                                                                    ~talnabitity
                                                                                                                                    lnltlotlvfl




Incentive programs
12 programs being offered In           Keyresults
Marblehead
1. Connected homes:                    • Top 3 programswith the highestawareness:energy audit services (46% are aware),
   incentive for home battery            appliance rebates (42%), and heat pump rebates (26%)
2. Connectedhomes:electric
   hot water heater incentive          • Programswith the lowest awareness:electric yard equipment rebates (68% not
3. Connected homes: monthly              aware), EV and PHEVcharger incentives (61%), and connected homes: monthly Wi­
   EVincentives
4. Connected homes: mini­                Fi thermostat incentive (58%)
   split controller incentive          • Top 3 most participated programs:energy audit services (57%), appliance rebates
5. Connected homes: monthly
   Wi-Fi thermostat incentive            (52%), and heat pump rebates (21%)
6. Connected homes: monthly
   EVlevel 2 fast charging             Reasons for not participating            What they said...
   incentives                          • not aware of these programs (35%)      • "There has been little effort to publicize these programs.H
7. EV new car incentivesfor
   trade-in from ICEcar                • did not understand how to              • "Marblehead Light...Whydon't you advertise these?"
8. EV and PHEV charger                   participate (21%)                      • "I am not convinced all of these suggestionsare better for
    incentives                         • did not think they would benefit         the environment."
9. Appliance rebates on                                                         • "Marblehead actively discourages alternative energy
    ENERGY    STAR•-certified            (8%)
                                                                                  sources by virtue of their highly imbalanced energy rate
    appliances                         • and many more...
10. Energy audit services                                                         structure (they buy at half the rate at which they selll."
                                         o home ownership
11. Heat pump rebates                                                           • "I wish solar roof tiles were allowed and storage battery
12. Electric yard equipment              o high cost to replace car or
                                                                                  had a monetary incentive."
   rebates                                 heating system

                                                                                                                            " 0      Sustolnobillty
                                                                                                                                     lnltlatkl•




Consumption awareness and behavior
                                          Awareness: key results
                                          Would usage monitoring change habits?:
                                          (1) yes, would use it strategically (46%)
                                          (2) yes, would use less (32%)




                                              I
                                                      -       Preferred media to receive high demand alert: text message {SMS)
                                                              (70%), email (38%), and mobile app notification (29%)
                                                              Behavioral perception: key results
                                                                peak consumption
                                                                       4PM
                                                                                                            • What motivates
                                                                   max. atSPM                                 consumption shift: cost
                                                                                                              (61%), environment (30%)
                                                                                                            • Would you respond ta
                                                      -0
                                                        ..    n_.;,,,:;;
                                                              What they said...
                                                                                                              high demand alert? likely
                                                                                                              & very likely (81%)


                                •-1\           • "Love the idea of monitoring my home electrical usage from my phone."
                                        o-.··-:11·,
                                               • "The most useful things ... (a) approve batteries for home use and (b)
                                                 correct the unfavorable rate structure ..."
                           -==11=111="1=1,1=11,=1
                                       !..-a     ,,Increase rates during peak periods, consumers will respond."
                                                                                                                                    Suttalnoblllty
                                                                                                                                    l"ltlotlw




                                                                                                                                                      8/12
             Dynamic pricing
             Scope: RTP,ToU, CPP,and ToU+CPP
            Key results                                                                            What they said...
            • 25% of respondents somewhat understand dynamic                                        • "I think if whatever dynamic model is used... simpler is
              pricing or do not understand it at all.                                                 better ... if too complex then userswon't understand and
            • The highest preference is for Time-of-Use (43%).                                        probably will not even try."
            • 59% of respondents strongly prefer or prefer dynamic                                  • "Why do I have to pay for the peak use caused by large
               pricing over a fixed rate, due to:                                                     users." - "My fear is that costs will go up."
                   o environmental impact (52%)                                                     • "Either the Town requires the scheme,or it doesn't work."
                   o cost (17%)                                                                     • "I think that an opt-out program gives consumers a
            • Only 28% of respondents have participated in dynamic                                   choice but helps more consumers participate."
               pricing before.
            • For 64% of respondents, a mix of ToU and CPP is the most
               complex scenario, with none selecting ToU alone.
               Preference in participation (strongly prefer and somewhat
               prefer):
                      Compuls'ory (58%)
                      Opt-in (57%)
      MIT          • Opt-out (41%)                                                                                                                   11   0     E:i~i:bility
  i.•~""'




             Key takeaways
             1. Communication is key. Having multiple channels of communication to promote programs, changes,
                   alerts, and provide clear, understandable explanations is essential to educate people and prevent
                   misinformation.

             2. The implementation of dynamic pricing involves various considerations: fitting the wholesale price
                   pattern to better incentivize customers to shift and managing complexity. As the goal is to induce
                   behavior change, preparation for implementation could take years, involving data exploration to
                   determine pricing scenarios, pilot projects, and then launching the program live.

             3. Customers emphasize and urge the publication and advertisement of programs, especially for home
                   batteries and solar systems, as part of the solution. They also highlight the importance of usage
                   monitoring and advocate for adjusting the rate structure based on survey results.



      m..                                                                                                                                        '        OSustolr,obiUty
                                                                                                                                                               lnltkrttve




            Decarbonize Massachusetts Municipalities by enabling public electric
                           utilities to run geothermal networks
       TeamENERGIZING
                    PUBLICPOWER:NETWORKED
                                        GEOTHERMAL
        Members are: Jean-Jacques Yarmoff, Encineer and elected Liaht Commission member;
        Eileen Methieu, Member of the Green M1rblehead lmplemenUltion Committee;
        Kurt J•mes, Member of M1rblehe1d Housin1 Production lmplementilltion Committee;
        Kevin Colcord, M1n11ement Consult1nt ind member of the li&ht Commission Stnitecv Workln1 Group;
        Michele Bell, Member of Sustltin1ble Mublehe1d;
        C•thy Hooe, Exe<utive Director, M1rblehe1d Housin1 Authority illnd S1lem Housin& Authority


            Marblehead is a small seaside community in Massachusetts, trying to lower its
            emission of Greenhouse Gases in both municipal and prjyate buildings. The town is
            located on a peninsula and subject to increasingly severe storms. This relative
            isolation is causing the town to explore disaster recovery options. An opportunity
            arises with the planned construction of a large housing development dedicated to
            handicapped and low-income families.
            The challenges are to provide this development with cheap, decarbonized energy for
            heating and cooling, while also increasing the resiliency of the community.
            The project will study the feasibility of a Networked Geothermal system to
                  Serve as an Energy Storage facility over - hours, - weeks. and - months;
                  Provide Energy, sold as a Utility Service to ensure a cost as low as possible;
                  Help Regulate the electric Distribution Grid and Stabilize Consumption.


            Marblehead Light Commission: Marblehead Municipal Light Department (MMLD)

            Sustainable Marblehead: Marblehead Fair Housing Committee: Marblehead Housing
            Authority

A•ERCIAJII MADE SOLVE If PIUZE I U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EIIERGT                                                                                                                    1




                                                                                                                                                                                   9/12
            Village 13 update

• Precast concrete land bridge sections delivered early-April   12;
  installation started 4/15
• Large, shallow ledge precluded the installation of precast footing
  sections; poured-in-place concrete footings installed instead
• Excellent cooperation among all involved local parties: MMLD, Mhd
  DPW & W&S, SESD,Bayside Engineering, & Cairns Construction
• Virginia Transformer 4/16 delivery schedule delay: 5/6 to 5/20 (in
  production) and 5/6 to 6/3 (production not started)
• Two minor VT contract issues identified ...resolution in process
• 26 Heritage Way - easement signed




            Tioga Way update


• Completed the wetlands flagging of the full parcel by wetlands
  scientist John Dick
• Completed topo survey field work of the entire parcel by
  Bayside Engineering survey team
• Bayside survey will indicate the size of developable sections of
  the parcel, within 100 feet and 50 feet of wetlands




            Federal & State grant applications & use


• FEMA- storm-related damage reimbursement claim Jan 10-13,
  2024. Mass did not meet the FEMA minimum-level storm
  damage threshold
• Mass CZM grant 2022-2024. Grant funds include Hammond
  Park child-safe park railings, Commercial St extension sidewalk
  installation, boat ramp hoist monopole installation, and ledge
  removal from the Commercial St extension. All improvements
  must be completed by June 30.




                                                                       10/12
                     Marblehead Proposed Projects
                          -
              Proposed Projects                      •""""-        I    Estimated Cost
                 u    IC c oo s - e ghborhood ResiliencyCenters­
                     Rooftop Solar PV (6 schools}                         $12,631,610
                     Battery Electric Storage System (4 schools)
              2. MHS Parking Lot Solar PVCanopy- Clean
              Transportation Center                                        $2,996,84?
                   Level 2 & 3 EV charging incl bus charging

              3. Brown School- CommunityShelterandClean
                                                                            $595,000
              Energy Service (CES)Center                   .
                    Level 2 & 3 EV charging Incl. bus charging
                                                               Total:




                              E G RIp Grant - Financial Impact



          -~~
        ·~i
  -
      Retail Price (no discount)
            •   ' '
              100%
      IRA Investment Tax Credi (IRA ITC)                                70%
      I RA ITC Coal Closure - nergy Community Tax                       60%
      Cr dit (ECTC) - based on loca ion
      IRA ITC DO GRIP Grant                                             35%
      IRA ITC+ CTC+ DOEGRIP                                             30½




               80 Commercial Fence & Gates

• Site prep has begun
• Trench dug for UG electric conduit for electric gate
• Premier Fence has been a very responsive vendor
• Removal of the old fence from the lower driveway to the
  Hammond Park entrance has exposed a varying (not straight)
  roadway edge and uneven roadway and sidewalk
  elevation ...making the the sidewalk edge and elevation more
  critical. ..and requiring a solid fence line footing




                                                                                         11/12
              210
                    SW
                            240
                                          w
                                          270
                                                       I
                                                       00
                                                               NW
                                                                     330
                                                                                    N
                                                                                        0           30
             •I•    I • I •I•     I•   I • I • I •I•   I •I•    I•    I•   I•   I •I•       I •I•   I
                      0 298°NW (T) @42°29'49"N, 70°51'8"W ±45ft A 11ft




           System Planning MMLD's future power needs

• April 11 technical meeting held with National Grid (NGrid}, MMLD, and
  MMWEC participating.
• NGrid plans by geographic area. Mhd is in the Salem Swampscott area.
  Future area system load and power quality needs are based on an
  internally generated 15-year load forecast.
• MMLD & MMWEC discussed our 5-year load forecast methodology.
• MMLD proposed working with NGrid forecasting team to apply their 15-
  year methodology, comparable to their Swampscott forecast.
• MMLD also identified the need for increasing resiliency in future grid
  infrastructure planning.
• Ngrid did not share any specific plans for planned Salem/Swampscott area
  grid upgrades. No comments on battery storage plans in the area


                                         ----****----




                                                                                                         12/12
