Light Commission June 25, 2024 meeting minutes
To:              Light Commission: Commissioners
                 Light Department: J. Kowalik, General Manager,
From:            Jean-Jacques Yarmoff, Secretary
Date:            July 31, 2024
Re:              Commission Meeting Public Session, June 25, 2024



A quorum being present, Chair Wolf brought the meeting to order at 4:00 pm. The meeting was held in
person and with remote internet access, both available to public participation. A recording of the meeting is
made available to the public at the following link.

Participated in meeting:
     Commissioners:         Commissioners Frechette, Hull, Smith, Wolf and Yarmoff participated in person.
     Light Department:      General Manager, J. Kowalik; Distribution Manager, Greg Chane; Business Manager,
                            Matt Barrett
      Invited:              Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company (MMWEC) Sustainable Energy
                            Policy & Program Senior Manager, Zoe Eckert.

Marblehead Land Acknowledgment declaration was read by Commissioner Frechette.

Election of officers of the Commission
Chair Wolf complimented Commissioner Frechette and Smith on their reelection. As customary after each
election, the commission decided to elect its slate of officers.
Vote #2024-09           Motion to re-elect Commissioner Wolf as chair, Commissioner Frechette as Vice-
                        Chair, and Commissioner Yarmoff as Secretary was moved by Commissioner Yarmoff,
                        seconded by Commissioner Smith. Four in favor, one abstention.

Approval of minutes
Vote #2024-10           Motion to approve the combined minutes of March 26, 2024 Public session and
                        Executive session was moved by Commissioner Frechette, seconded by Commissioner
                        Yarmoff. Unanimous
Vote #2024-11           Motion to approve the April 30, 2024 public session minutes; and the April 30,
                        executive session minutes was moved by Commissioner Yarmoff, seconded by
                        Commissioner Frechette. Four in favor. Commissioner Hull, absent at the meeting,
                        abstained.
Vote #2024-12           Motion to approve the minutes of the May 28, 2024 meeting was moved by
                        Commissioner Frechette, seconded by Commissioner Yarmoff. Four in favor.
                        Commissioner Smith, absent at the meeting, abstained.

Comments from the Public
Electric Bus. Eileen Mathieu, Longview Drive, mentioned that Marblehead had received a $200,000 grant to
purchase an electric bus. A MassCEC grant might help - study the design for and - purchase the corresponding

                                                                                                          1/9
electric charger: this is work the school will take on. The deadline for this application is July 10. It will be
useful to have the Light Department and the Light Commission sign a letter of support, as stakeholders in this
process. After discussion, it was proposed that Eileen Mathieu could work with Lisa Wolf to come up with an
appropriate letter for signature by the Light Department’s General Manager and the Light Commission.
Solar Rate. Jeffry Foley, Cherry Street, made comments regarding the Light Department’s solar rates. This is
an agenda item of the meeting and M. Fowley was invited to bring his remarks at that time.

Cliff Street work. The town is facilitating access to the seaside park on Cliff Street, between Commercial
Street and the entrance to the Marblehead Yacht club: some ledge has been removed and boulders will be
installed to delineate pedestrian access.

Outstanding items from previous meetings
Process for battery Interconnection Application. The document highlighting the process for a resident to
apply to connect a residential battery has been published on the MMLD web site, after confirmation by the
Building Inspector and the Fire Chief that this process was adequate. MMLD is accepting applications. While
MMLD has not reached out to residents that showed interest in a residential battery previously, it is
anticipated that the local press will cover this subject and let the public know.
23 kV Feeder line. Commissioner Yarmoff introduced a document, shared with MMLD in March, assessing risk
to electricity supply in Marblehead, with the goal to improve resiliency for the town. This will be discussed at
the next board meeting. See p 6 for an excerpt.
Employee Survey. The General Manager and Commissioner Yarmoff participated in a meeting with Polco’s
representative Brandon Barnett, highlighting the next steps to set up a study. The questions need to be
finalized and a timeline put in place for execution of the survey.
Solar rates review
Current Policy: The General Manager explained the economic basis for the current proposed Solar Feed-In
Tariff policy, starting with the components of the wholesale electricity cost that Marblehead pays: energy,
capacity and transmission charges. This gets the electrons to our substation. To get them to the customers,
MMLD maintains distribution wires, poles and a team of people, which brings the wholesale rate to the
current rate that residents pay, about 19 cents per kWh. When MMLD buys back energy from residents, it is
only buying back energy (not capacity, transmission or distribution). In order to make this transparent, the
proposed policy has been to use publicly available numbers: the ISO-NE Locational Marginal Price for the
North East of Massachusetts (NEMA-LMP), averaged over the previous year to fix the Feed-in Tariff.
According to the General Manager, this is the only economically valid reasoning.
Commercial customers feed-in tariff rate are set at this NEMA-LMP rate and updated every year. This
explains the 3.3 cents per kWh as described on the slide p 6. A discussion ensued as to whether this number
was the actual average 2023 NEPA-LMP, which - if 5.6 c/kWh as found on the ISO-NE web site - would mean
Marblehead significantly underpays its commercial customers.
For Residential Solar rates, the Commission previously decided (Vote #2023-45) not to change the previous
feed-in tariff of 9.9 c per kWh, as the proposed policy does not take into account the benefits of a lower
capacity and transmission charge coming from local production. The General Manager agreed that it is
necessary to take into account the avoided capacity and transmission charges, which complicates the
calculation: a simplistic evaluation yields a result very close to the previous number, which explains why the
Commission decided to not change the feed-in tariff from the previously set rate, pending in depth review. As

                                                                                                            2/9
a result, there are two different rates (commercial and residential) right now, because initially the proposed
policy was supposed to only take into account the NEMA-LMP. If it is appropriate to take into account the
transmission and capacity charge, on top of the NEMA-LMP to get a rate which is close to 9.9 cent, it does not
seem that the 3.3 cent Commercial rate is fair to these customers. Commissioner Yarmoff also reported that
commercial customers who have a choice will set up solar arrays in buildings they own in different parts of
Massachusetts rather than in Marblehead, which directly hurts Marblehead.
Portfolio considerations: the General Manager is charged with increasing MMLD carbon-free portfolio in line
with the constraints of the state and the town, as economically as possible. Faced with the two choices
described in the slide p 6, he recommends prioritizing the second scenario. Commissioner Yarmoff pointed
out that we should also consider the portfolio of sources of energy when setting the policy for Feed-In Tariff.
If solar rates in Marblehead were about the same as the LCOE (Levelized Cost of Energy) of our Berkshire
windfarms, we would be ahead, as solar in town helps with lower transmission and capacity charges, as well
as resiliency.
Net-Metering: Commissioner Wolf commented that presenting MMLD as implementing Net-Metering is
deceptive: a real Net-Metering calculation would have the meter run forward when the residents consume
electricity and backwards when electricity is exported back to MMLD. But what we do is different: we buy
back the exported electricity at a low rate. Commissioner Frechette reported that residents have complained,
after installing solar panels, that their bills were very different from what they expected to see.
Installation subsidies. While some other MLPs calculate the solar feed-in tariff in the same way as MMLD
does, they have substantial solar installation subsidies. Marblehead residents do not turn over the RECs to
the Light Department. What would be the net present value of the RECs to MMLD if they were transferred
from the residents to MMLD? Could that value be used to subsidize the upfront cost of the solar panels? This
would be of interest to both the residents who would be able to more easily install solar, and to MMLD as it
would at the same time increase the clean energy in Marblehead.
Batteries: A further issue to consider will be tariff for electricity exported from residential batteries. We
cannot differentiate from solar installations and batteries will make economic sense to residents if installed
together with a solar array. The Feed-In Tariff policy will apply to both solar and batteries.
Conflict of Interest: Commissioner Wolf added that she, like Commissioner Frechette, have solar panels on
their houses and will abstain from any vote on Solar Feed-In Tariff policy, if this comes up to a vote.
Resident comments: Jeffry Foley agreed that the way Net Metering is described is causing confusion to
residents interested in installing residential solar. He also stated that it seemed to him appropriate that the
Feed-In Tarif of residents that can install solar should be subsidized to increase the penetration of solar.
Next Steps: The Chair requested that two points be investigated, possibly with the help of MMWEC: - an
evaluation of the net present value of the RECs to consider if it would be worthwhile to take these into
account into a subsidy for installation; and the impact on MMLD’s revenues if MMLD implemented full net
metering versus the current approach.
With this information, the Commission should be able to establish a Solar Feed-In Tariff policy.


Heat Emergency and Peak Alert
Late in the week of June 10, 2024 forecasts were published for the week of June 17 that indicated that a heat
wave would reach New England and utilities could expect very high electricity consumption. Hourly

                                                                                                             3/9
consumption in Marblehead for the days of Tuesday June 18 through Friday June 21 is shown on slide page 7.
The General Manager sent a CodeRed message to Marblehead residents on Wednesday June 19 at 4:30 pm to
voluntarily curtail electric consumption if possible from 4:30 pm to 8 pm, and again the following day. This
communication raised several questions from the Commission:
  - On Tuesday, ISO-NE issued a warning that the system was in Capacity Scarcity Condition OP-4. OP-4 means
    the grid is under serious stress that could possibly escalate to load shedding orders. Yet, the CodeRed
    message was sent nearly 24 hours later, when stress conditions on the grid had normalized.
  - The concomitant heat wave and the failure of a large electricity generator meant that electricity prices
    reached an LMP of 758 $/MWh for hour 18, 25 times higher than normal (and 25 times higher than the day
    before or the day after the scarcity event). While the failure of a generator could not have been
    anticipated, the high energy consumption could have been, in view of the heatwave that was forecast.
  - While the heat wave had been forecast and started on Tuesday, the message from the Light Department
    was sent on Wednesday, requesting immediate action and focusing on a generator issue. Other Munis
    communicated the week prior to the heat wave, warning residents and enlisting their help ahead of the
    critical period. In Marblehead, no message was sent ahead of the heat wave, and no repeat happened on
    Thursday, when the heat conditions were forecast to be the worst of the week.
  - The message focused on abnormal operating conditions outside of Marblehead and not on lowering
    consumption and the capacity charges (unlike the messages sent by the Department in July).
The General Manager pointed out that he limits himself to one CodeRed message a week to avoid overloading
residents with information. The situation that week was different from that of other heat waves in that there
was an operational issue.
The Commission pointed out that the Light Department has other communication methods and relays available
to get the message to the community. The Department’s Facebook page, town sent e-mail messages, local
media, local associations can all be used to communicate ahead of a heat wave that reducing electric
consumption is saving money for everybody. We do not prepare residents by explaining the context of the
CodeRed messages, and yet this is something that we need to do to be effective. Clearly when there is an
emergency, CodeRed is important; CodeRed communications should not be abused. But other methods of
communication should be mobilized ahead of heat waves. The Connected Homes program sends daily
communications to participants.
The Chair summarized the debate: the Light Department would appreciate the Commission to set a clear
policy of what is expected in terms of communications ahead of heat waves and for peak alerts and
requested Commissioners to submit proposals to the chair regarding this Peak alert policy for MMLD.

Duracell program update
During the previous Commission meeting, MMWEC’s Zoe Eckert introduced several possible pilot schemes and
highlighted one that could be possible in the Crowninshield area, where service interruption due to weather-
related events have been frequent. As there is a possibility to organize different types of pilots, Commissioner
Yarmoff proposed several other options that MMLD could consider, see pp 8. These pilot programs, if they
were implemented, would have a positive NPV to MMLD, but raise questions that MMWEC is currently
discussing with MMLD and other municipal light plants. More information may be shared by MMWEC at the
next Commission meeting on possible pilots.


Distribution Department Update

                                                                                                          4/9
This update will be rescheduled for the next Commission meeting.
General Manager Updates

Village 13 update: MMLD is expecting to receive shipment on the transformers this week. A lot of planning
is going on to ensure smooth delivery. First a crane is coming into position. Half of the substation is going to
be de-energized to ensure safety. So MMLD is carefully looking at the weather to ensure that only one
line/transformer can carry the load of the town during that period. If necessary, MMLD will run the Wilkins
plant to guarantee appropriate supply. The Police Department will help by escorting the trucks, and
organizing parking along the delivery path. The Commission voiced appreciation for all the planning work
that is going on in ensuring smooth delivery of these exceptional loads.

Shipyard Area resiliency grant. Work is progressing and will be completed before the end of the month as
per plan. A monopole has been installed to facilitate gangway operation of the commercial dock. The
sidewalk is being reconstructed. The fence installation is nearly complete. During this work, a contractor
pierced a pipe of the geothermal loop that serves MMLD headquarter building and whose location had not
been appropriately documented. This incident was quickly resolved, with no environmental consequences.

Tioga Way update. The structural engineering firm is going to give us a preliminary estimate of the cost of
leveling the potential sites identified in the parcel, so that the Department can make a determination as to
where to focus its efforts.

New employee recruitment update. See page 7. The information systems technology manager, Chris
Dunbar starts at the beginning of July, next week. The General Manager is interviewing several candidates
for the engineering project manager position. For the Energy Services Manager position, discussions are on-
going with one person in the industry but there is currently no active search on-going with the recruiter.

The meeting concluded at 5:58 pm at which point a motion to adjourn was proposed, seconded and
adopted.

                                                  ----****----




                                                                                                             5/9
Documents presented during the June 25, 2024 Light Commission Meeting

Trying to analyze risk separately for each of the subcomponents gives the following table:


          Location of possible      What kind of failure?                            Probability      Who is
                 failure                                         What Hazards?        of failure   responsible?

       Upstream of Salem
 1                                 Transmission failure to substation                Low           National Grid
       Railway substation

 2     Railway substation           Equipment failure at substation                  Low           National Grid

                                    Pole failure; Line failure
 3     Overhead line Salem RoW                                     High wind         Low           MMLD? NG?
                                          Malevolence; Accident; Public Work         Low
                                    Line failure
 4     Underground Salem Row                                        Flooding         Low           MMLD?
                                            Uninformed digging/ public works         Low
                                    Line failure
       Under bridges/
 5                                                                 Bridge failure    Low           ?
       underground berm
                                                                    Berm failure     Medium        ?
                                    Pole failure; Line failure
 6     Overhead line Mbhd Row                     High wind: Tree falling on line    High          MMLD
                                                                        Brush fire   Low
                                    Equipment failure at substation                  Low
 7     Village 13 substation                                                                       MMLD
                                    End-of-life of equipment                         Addressed




                       Current MMLD Solar rates

     • Residential- 9.9 cents per kwh
       - based on a prior year average, publicly available NEMA LMP price
         (Northeast Mass ISO-NE zone, localized marginal price)
       - Set multiple years ago.
       - Board discussion in 2023 but no vote to change


     • Commercial - 3.3 cents per kwh
       - Based on the prior year (2023) average NEMA LMP



                      Adding New Carbon-Free Resources to
                      Power Portfolio - Prioritizing Options

 Power Attributes                     Option A                                 Option B
 Carbon Intensity                     100% clean                               100% clean
 Supply Predictability                Intermittent; 1 in 7 hours at Firm Power, By month &
                                      best                          hour of the day
 RECSto MMLD                          No*                                     Yes
 MMLD cost - $/kwh                    9.9 cents                                7.5 cents
 Energy Delivered to MMLD             342 MWH {2023 actual)                    19,627 MWH {2024-26
                                                                               average)



                                                                                                                   6/9
                               Heat Wave and CodeRED response

              Tuesday                        Wednesday                        Thursday                       Friday
       Hour      6/18 Hrly Delta   Delta"         6/19 Hrly Delta   Delta"        6/20 Hrly Delta   Delta%    6/21 Hrly Delta   Delta"
         10      15.4                              18.4                                                        19.2
         11
         12                  1.6      8.9"         22.2       1.8     8.0%        24.6        1.6     6.6%    20.6        0.3      1.4%
         13      20.0        1.4      7.0%         24.1       1.9     7.9"        26.6        2.0     7.5%    20.4       -0.2     -1.1%
         14      20.5        0.5      2.5%         25.6       1.5     5.7%        27.8        1.3     4.6%    20.2       -0.2     -0.9%
         15      21.2        0.6      3.0%         26.7       1.1     4.1"        29.0        1.1     3.9"    20.1       -0.1     -0.4%
         16      22.3        1.1      5.1%         26.6       0.0     -0.1%       29.6        0.6     2.0%    20.1       -0.1     -0.4%
         17      23.1        0.8     3.6%          27.1       0.5      1.7%       29.9        0.3     0.9"    19.7       -0.4     -2.0%
         18      23.7        0.6     2.6%          26.4      -0.7     -2.6%       29.7       -0.2    -0.6%    18.8       -0.9     -4.7%
         19      24.4        0.7     2.7%          25.6      -0.9     -3.4%       29.5       -0.2    -0.7"    17.1       -1.7     -9.9%
         20      25.9        1.5     5.9"          24.3      ·1.2     ·5.0%       28.9       -0.6    ·2.0%    16.3       -0.8     -4.8%
         21      20.1       -5.8   ·28.9"          23.5      -0.8     -3.6%       27.1       ·1.8    -6.5%    15.8       -0.5     -3.5%
         22      21.1        1.0     4.7%          22.4      -1.0     -4.7%       23.6       -3.5   -15.0%    14.9       -0.8     -5.4%
         23      19.3                              20.4                           21.2                         13.S
         24      17.0                              18.3                           18.3                        12.1
otal            401.8                             471.0                          525.0                       398.9




                                   General Manager updates

         • Village 13 update
         • Shipyard Area Resiliency ( CZM) Grant
         • May monthly financials available late this week
         • Tioga Way update
         • New employee recruiting update




                               New MMLD employee hiring

       • Information Systems & Tech Manager - starts next week
       • Engineering Project Manager (EPM) - leading candidate took a
         job with another Mass MLD closer to home. Continuing to
         interview candidates
       • Energy Services Manager- in discussion with one candidate




                                                                                                                                          7/9
                 Light Commission: Commissioners
                 Light Department: J. Kowalik, General Manager
                 MMWEC: Z. Eckert, Sustainable Energy Policy & Program Senior Manager
From:            Jean-Jacques Yarmoff
Date:            June 21, 2024
Re:              Residential battery pilot program




                       Pilot programs for Duracell residential batteries


MMWEC's Sustainable Energy Policy and Program Senior Manager, Zoe Eckert, presented the elements
of possible pilot programs with residential batteries to be discussed and implemented with Duracell. This
document is proposed to stimulate conversation about pilot program(s) in Marblehead.

Several use cases have been proposed, to combine batteries with solar production, for resiliency and in
other situations. The analysis below show that a reasonable pilot program could result in potentially
around 50 batteries installed in town, resulting in 150 kW of installed capacity, with a positive contribution
to MMLD' finance of about $175K with the current MMWEC's assumptions.

While the number of batteries is an estimate and other reasonable assumptions could be made resulting
in different numbers. it remains that a pilot introducing residential batteries will have a positive
impact on MMLD's finances.



Crowninshield resiliency
Why, and who The Crowninshield area distribution system is via underground service, which has
suffered some repeated disruption in recent storms. 23 Residences might benefit from back-up power.
How many? A handful at most (taken as 5 in this analysis). Some of the large residences in this
exclusive neighborhood might need two battery systems to cover load in case of failure. Some probably
already have a back-up system.

In conjunction with Solar
Why, and who The economic case for extending solar electricity production for the residents and for
MMLD is clear: this is best use case for batteries and will incentivize local solar production as well.
How many? Around 20 - 30? There are 83 solar roofs in Marblehead, all of which might benefit from
battery installations. Some residents have been waiting for years: a fraction of these 83 solar installations
have already expressed interest. In addition, we accrue solar installations at the rhythm of about 10 a
year. With the financial incentive of a faster pay-back with battery, it is likely that this number will both
increase and that a large portion of new installs will be in conjunction with batteries.

Water and Sewer Department resiliency
Why, and who Water and Sewer operates 30 pumping stations (two drinking water, 28 sewer pumping
stations), most of which are not equipped with back-up power generation. The sewer department has
some portable generators, but not enough to cover all pumping stations. All stations which are not at risk
of flooding could be equipped. other town departments might be interested as well.
How many? Five to 10?

                                                                                                            1/2




                                                                                                                  8/9
Life saving medical equipment/ resiliency
Why, and who Residents who depend on life saving medical equipment are a particular concern of the
Light Department, as was discussed during the public meeting of December 15, 2022. Residents might
depend on oxygen pumps, monitoring devices, or medication that must be kept frozen or refrigerated at
all times. Backup power in case of supply disruption is critical.
How many? Possibly 10 - 20?
We can work with the Disability Commission, the Health Department, the COA and other organizations to
get the word out, in addition to the residents already identified by the Light Department in the December
2022 work preparing for possible load shedding events.

Low income residents / resiliency
Why, and who MMLD has been working with the North Shore Community Action Program to provide
help to low-income residents who have difficulty in paying their electricity bills. Unlike the Crowninshield
residents, these residents are unlikely to be able to afford installation of a residential battery, even if they
wanted to. MMLD proposing a pilot program for these residents, where MMLD carries the whole cost of
the batteries, would help them, would help the whole town and still have a positive financial impact for
MMLD even though the ROI is longer than in other use cases.
How many? Tbd, taken as 5 in this analysis.




Program projections: a positive financial contribution
These projects together could possibly lead to the installation of 45 - 70 batteries representing 135 - 210
kW and 345 - 540 kWh of installed capacity in town.
Using MMWEC's numbers presented during the May commission meeting, the program might cost the
Light Department between $214K to $335K to implement and result in avoided costs of $367K - $571 K:
a net financial positive contribution of $153 - $236K while adding to the resiliency of the town.




                                                                                                              2/2


                                               ----****----
                                                                                                                    9/9
