Light Commission June 6, 2025 meeting
Minutes of the Open Session and the Executive Session
To:             Light Commission: Commissioners
From:           Jean-Jacques Yarmoff
Date:           July 17, 2025



A quorum being present, Chair Yarmoff brought the meeting to order at 8:20 am. The meeting was held
with all members participating via remote internet access. Remote access was also available to public
participation. A recording of the meeting is made available to the public at the following link.

Participated in the meeting
Commissioners: Commissioners Frechette, Smith, and Yarmoff all participated remotely.
Light Commission Selection Subcommittee: Alexa Singer, Select Board Member; Tom Howard, Marblehead
HR Director; and Greg Chane, MMLD Distribution Manager also participated remotely.

Comments from the Public
There were no participants from the public, whether in person or remote.

Executive Session
Chair Yarmoff declared that an open session would have detrimental effect in obtaining qualified
applicants for the position of MMLD General Manager. He requested a motion to enter Executive
Session to consider or interview applicants for employment or appointment by the Screening
Committee of the Light Commission, not to return to open session.
The motion was moved by Commissioner Yarmoff, seconded by Commissioner Frechette.
Votes: Simon Frechette: Yes; Adam Smith, Yes; Jean-Jacques Yarmoff: Yes.

He also reminded the participants that since this session was held remotely, it was the responsibility of
all participants to make sure that they were in a location where they could not be overheard, and that
any vote that the group takes must be by roll call. Commissioner Yarmoff then left the meeting.

The Executive Session started at 8:23 am, with Commissioners Frechette and Smith and the other
members of the Selection Subcommittee of the Light Commission, Alexa Singer, Select Board Member;
Tom Howard, Marblehead HR Director; Greg Chane, MMLD Distribution Manager all participating
remotely in Zoom meetings that were organized with three candidates. Questions had been prepared in
advance and the same questions were asked of all the candidates during one-hour interviews.

The Executive Session concluded at noon at which point a motion to adjourn was proposed, seconded
and, after a roll call of the Subcommittee members voting unanimously in favor, adopted.

                                               ----****----




                                                                                                       1/1
