Light Commission July 28, 2025 Public Session Minutes
To:             Light Commission: Commissioners
                Light Department: J. Kowalik, General Manager
From:           Matt Harrington
Date:           Oct 28, 2025



A quorum being present, Chair Yarmoff brought the meeting to order at 4:03 pm. The meeting was
held in person at MMLD HQ and with remote internet access, both available to the public.

Participated in meeting:
Commissioners Harrington, Hull, and Yarmoff all participated in person, Commissioner Frechette
participated via Zoom, Commissioner Smith was excused.

Marblehead Land Acknowledgment declaration was read by Harrington

Comments from the Public: N/A

Agenda Change: A motion to change the agenda to discuss a travel policy and to approve minutes
was moved by Commissioner Hull, seconded by Comm. Harrington

Travel Policy:
As the Board was informed that there is no current Travel Policy in MMLD, the Chair proposes a
policy to allow MMLD to reimburse candidates travelling from out of state locations for an interview
to be reimbursed for their travel expenses.
    1. In view of the competitive nature of recruitment in utilities, this will allow more candidates
        to apply.
    2. Moved by Chair, second by Hull
    3. Frechette suggests that we limit the reimbursement to economy flight and 1 night hotel
    VOTE 2025-23: All Yes. Smith not present

Minutes from previous meetings:
   Chair asked members of the hiring subcommittee to approve the subcommittee minutes and
   release minutes from executive sessions for the subcommittee meetings of June 3, June 6 and
   June 13 (the June 17 meeting of the selection subcommittee was cancelled).
           o Howard and Chane approved Prior to meeting in writing
           o Frechette approves verbally via remote connection
      VOTE 2025-24: In view of the selection subcommittee’s participants approval, Hull makes a
      motion to approve the selection subcommittee minutes and to release them publicly, motion
      seconded by Yarmoff
             o Hull: Yes, Frechette: Yes, Yarmoff: Yes. Harrington Abstain


                                                                                                  1/2
Executive Session:

The Chair proposed a motion to meet in Executive Session - to conduct strategy session in
preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel and - to discuss MMLD’s Power Portfolio and
confidential, competitively sensitive and proprietary information, pursuant to section 1F of Chap
164, not to return to open session. Motion was moved by Commissioner Hull, seconded by
Commissioner Yarmoff.
Votes: Harrington: Yes; Hull: Yes, Frechette: Yes, Yarmoff.

Executive Session started at 4:11.

The Executive Session concluded at 4:54 after a motion to adjourn was moved by Commissioner
Hull, seconded by Commissioner Yarmoff.
Votes: Harrington: Yes; Hull: Yes, Frechette: Yes, Yarmoff.



                                           ----****----




                                                                                              2/2
