Light Commission April 29, 2025 meeting minutes
To:             Light Commission: Commissioners
                Light Department: J. Kowalik, General Manager
From:           Jean-Jacques Yarmoff
Date:           July 7, 2025



A quorum being present, Chair Yarmoff brought the meeting to order at 4:03 pm. The meeting was held
in person at Abbot Hall, and with remote internet access, both available to public participation.
A recording of the meeting is made available to the public at the following link.

Participated in meeting:
     Commissioners:         Commissioners Frechette, Hull, Smith and Yarmoff all participated in person.
     Light Department:      General Manager, J. Kowalik.

Marblehead Land Acknowledgment declaration was read by Commissioner Frechette.

Vote to approve minutes of previous meetings
Vote #2025-09    A motion to approve the minutes of the March 25 public session and those of the
                 March 25 executive session was moved by Commissioner Frechette and seconded by
                 Commissioner Smith. Unanimous.

Outstanding items from previous meetings
Polco survey: The survey has been available to all staff members. Polco staff will collate the data and we
hope it will be sent shortly to the board.

General Manager Updates
Village 13 upgrade
The switchgear foundation is now complete. We are waiting for the completion of the switchgear itself
and its delivery to Marblehead (the order was placed in October 2022).
The General Manager explained the necessity of a second land bridge to isolate and protect the forced
sewer line from underground conduits that will cross the Swampscott right of way and proposed the
text of a motion for the board to consider. The work will likely take less than two weeks, but during that
time the path will not be available to the public.
Vote #2025-10      A motion to approve “a project change order, not to exceed $200,000, to enable the
                   construction of a concrete, below-grade land bridge across the Swampscott ROW to
                   isolate new underground electrical conduits from the force sewer main located beneath”
                   was moved by Commissioner Smith, seconded by Commissioner Frechette. Unanimous.

Voluntary payment to the town
As the name implies, these payments are not required. MMLD is exempt from paying any taxes, as
Commissioner Yarmoff explained, reviewing the text of MGL Chapter 164A, and the slides presented during
a meeting of the Massachusetts Light Commissioners Association (MLCA) which covered this topic. Four
Municipal Light Plants make no payments to their towns. If a payment does occur, it must be from the
                                                                                                      1/10
surplus that is generated during operations. It cannot be an expense “above the line” in the P&L of the
Light Department. There is not always a surplus, and payments cannot be guaranteed. MMLD makes
voluntary payments which are in line with its peers. Commissioner Yarmoff suggested that it might be
advantageous to both the town and the Light Department to determine the payment amount based on
“kWh sold” formula, assuming there is a surplus. Please refer to the slides page 4-5. For the current
exercise, Commissioner Yarmoff proposed that the motion prepared by the General Manager be put to a
vote of the Commission. Commissioner Hull remarked that this voluntary payment has been used in the
past towards the town electrification goals (purchase of an electric vehicle). He wishes that future
voluntary payments could be earmarked towards specific goals, rather than disappearing into the general
funds.
Vote #2025-11      A motion to approve a Voluntary Payment to the Town of Marblehead for $360,000,
                   from MMLD 2024 Operating Income was moved by Commissioner Frechette, seconded
                   by Commissioner Hull. Unanimous.

Open Positions Update
Energy Efficiency Program Manager: One of the candidates was a member of the Light Commission, an
application which caused a conflict of interest. Since she resigned from her position on March 28, the
General Manager submitted to the board a disclosure of appearance of conflict of interest, as required
by Massachusetts General Law Chap 268A: disclosure form called “23 b. 3. filing”. See enclosure page 6.
The General Manager and the 4-person hiring committee he assembled will now proceed with the hiring
process. The slide on page 7 gives updates on additional hiring for some of the open positions.

General Manager Annual Review
The Commission approved a process for the General Manager’s annual review in its April 10, 2023
meeting. In line with that process, the General Manager has provided the Commission with his
assessment of results vs goals. Commissioners will make their own evaluation, which will be
summarized, collated and provided to the general manager, who can then comment. And then it goes
into the general manager's personal file, as per the General Manager’s employment contract. We will
follow this process, but will also allow for a discussion in executive session under exemption 4 to the
Open Meeting Law “to discuss the deployment of security personnel or devices, or strategies with
respect thereto”. Once this is done, we will complete the process as stated. The General Manager then
presented highlights of activities and unplanned obstacles which were overcome, see slides page 9-10.

Public Comments:
Members of the public question the existence of a written strategic document for MMLD and
questioned the pace of the General Manager search. The public is encouraged to listen to the full
exchanges in the recording, available here.

Process to interview candidates to the GM position
A job description has been distributed to Commissioners previously in Executive Session. It will be
posted after a final review. Depending on the number of candidates, the Commission will then form a
Search Subcommittee to review and recommend a few candidates to be interviewed by the Commission
in public session.

The meeting concluded at 6:03 pm when a motion to adjourn was proposed, seconded and adopted.

                                              ----****----
                                                                                                    2/10
Documents shown during the April 29, 2025 Light Commission meeting.


            Village 13 substation project update

• Switchgear foundation construction now complete. Waiting for a
  firm switchgear delivery date for our order placed, October 2022.
• Discussion and Vote of a Project Change Order, not to exceed
  $200,000, for the design and construction of a land bridge #2, to
  isolate new underground circuit conduit from the aging town force
  sewer main beneath it, and to make passable the Swampscott to
  Salem bypass ROW segment when MMLD closes the Swampscott
  segment during the ~two-week construction period.




            Village 13 Substation project update Vote #1


• Motion for a Board VOTE:
"To Approve a project change order, not to exceed $200,000, to
enable the construction of a concrete, below-grade land bridge
across the Swampscott ROW at Village 13, that will isolate new
underground electrical conduits from the force sewer main
located beneath it."




                                                                      3/10
              Voluntary Payments by MLPs to Towns

MLCAI
                  Massachusetts General Law
                Part I Administration of the Government
    • Title XXII - Corporations
       • Chapter 164A- New England Power Pool
          • Section 8- Taxation of municipal electric department owning interests in
            electric power facilities

       (a) The provisions of this section for payments in lieu of taxes shall not apply to
           electric power facilities constructed or substantially under construction by a
           municipal electric department prior to September 13, 1973.




               Voluntary Payments by MLPs to Towns

• 41 Municipal Light Plants in Massachusetts
• 4 Systems make no payments to their towns: $0
• If payments occur, they must be from surplus, if there is a
  surplus: Payments are not guaranteed



              Voluntary Payments by MLPs to Towns

 MLCAI
                   Four Systems make no payment
      • Light Commissioners represent the electric ratepayers
      • Board of Selectman represent the taxpayers

      In some cases, there is an explicit agreement that:
                   Ratepayers and Taxpayers are the same
      PILOT or other Voluntary Payment is just shifting town budget from tax
                              rates to electricity rates




                                                                                             4/10
             Voluntary Payments by MLPs to Towns

Proposition that the Light Commission
   - reviews the proposed Voluntary Payment system and
   - evaluates determination   of voluntary payment amount based on a
     formula


Proposition to accept the General Manager's recommendation
for this exercise with a Voluntary Payment to the Town of
Marblehead of $360,000



            Voluntary Payments by MLPs to Towns

           MLCA            Data from 32 systems

                                                  1 '°"'°'32,,,_-.ns ... ~boll   I


                                                                                     •   MMLD



                                                                                     •   Formula


                                                                                         Negotiated




             2024 Voluntary Payment

Motion:


To approve a Voluntary Payment to the Town of Marblehead for
$360,000, from MMLD 2024 Operating Income.




                                                                                                      5/10
                      DISCLOSURE OF APPEARANCE OF CONFLICT OF INTEREST
                              AS REQUIRED BY G. L. c. 268A, § 23(b)(3)

                        PUBLIC EMPLOYEE INFORMATION
Name of public
                        Joseph Kowalik
employee:

Title or Position:      General Manager

Agency/Department:      Marblehead Municipal Light Department




Agency address:         80 Commercial St.
                        Marblehead, MA 01945




Office Phone:           781-631-0240

Office E-mail:          jkowalik@mhdld.com



                        In my capacity as a state, county, or municipal employee, I am expected to take certain
                        actions in the performance of my official duties. Under the circumstances, a reasonable
                        person could conclude that a person or organization could unduly enjoy my favor or
                        improperly influence me when I perform my official duties, or that I am likely to act or fail to
                        act as a result of kinship, rank, position or undue influence of a party or person.

                        I am filing this disclosure to disclose the facts about this relationship or affiliation and to
                        dispel the appearance of a conflict of interest.

                        APPEARANCE OF FAVORITISM OR INFLUENCE
Describe the issue      I am in the process of considering applicants for the Energy Efficiency Product Marketing
that is coming before   Manager at the Light Department. One of the applicants, Lisa Wolf, is a former
you for action or       Commissioner of the Light Board. I am filing this disclosure statement to report the past
decision.               relationship and to dispel the appearance of undue favoritism in the hiring process.



What responsibility     As the General Manager, I am responsible for hiring all light plant employees. lwill be
do you have for         participating in the hiring process and making the final decision.
taking action or
making a decision?




Explain your            The applicant, Lisa Wolf, is a former Commissioner of the Light Board. Ms. Wolf applied
relationship or         for the Energy Efficiency Product Marketing Manager position as a sitting Board member.
affiliation to the      As a member of the Light Board and my superior, I was unable to act on her application
person or               without a Section 19 exemption from the Marblehead Municipal Light Board, which the
organization.           Light Board did not grant. Accordingly, Lisa Wolf resigned from the Board on March 28,
                        2025, removing the Section 19 conflict of interest.

How do your official    I would be responsible for deciding whether to hire her for the position.
actions or decision
matter to the person
or oraanization?




                                                                                                                          6/10
 Optional: Additional       The applicant no longer has any supervisory authority over my employment. I also have
 facts - e.g., why          assembled a hiring team of three other individuals with relevant experience, including
 there is a low risk of     two qualified individuals who are not MMLD employees, to ensure that the process is
 undue favoritism or        fair and unbiased.
 improper influence.




                            WRITE AN XTO CONFIRM THE STATEMENT BELOW.
 If you cannot confirm
 this statement,            _X_ Taking into account the facts that I have disclosed above, I feel that I can perform
 you should                     my official duties objectively and fairly.
 recuse yourself.
 Employee signature:

 Date:                      April 24, 2025
                                             ~l-r:JC~-.r;r
                                             u    U


                                             Attach additional pages if necessary.

                          Not elected to your public position - file with your appointing authority.

                     Elected state or county employees - file with the State Ethics Commission.

         Members of the General Court - file with the House or Senate clerk or the State Ethics Commission.

                           Elected municipal employee - file with the City Clerk or Town Clerk.

            Elected regional school committee member - file with the clerk or secretary of the committee.




Form revised July, 2012




                                 Open Position updates

              • Energy Efficiency Marketing Programs Mgr.
                  - General Manager is filing a Mass State Ethics Commission Appearance of
                    Conflict-of-Interest Disclosure Form, a "23b3" form with MMLD Board
                  - Will continue with the 4-person hiring committee, consisting of the MMLD
                    GM, a MMLD Manager with prior public employee hiring experience, the
                    Town HR Director, and the MMWEC Sustainability Programs Senior
                    Manager. Two MMLD employees, two not MMLD employees.
              • MMLD Fleet Maintenance & Facilities Operation Specialist- offer
                accepted
                  - Jose Acosta will begin May 19th
              • Senior Substation and Operations Specialist- qualified candidate
                interviews underway


                                                                                                                       7/10
               General Manager's annual review

• Approved Process


• Next Steps


• General Manager's comments
   - Highlights
   - Obstacles Overcome




                  Annual Review: Approved Process

                                                                                                      Approved 4/10/2023


                                                        Marblehead Light Commission
                                                   General Manager Evaluation Process



                      The followine process is proposed to ensure a consistent, fair and dfective evaluation process of the
                      General Manaeer of the Marblehead Municipal Ueht Department.

                      A. Oral Evaluation Process




                      B. Written Evaluation Proceu

                     FoUowmathe Licht Commissionmeetlnawhere the oral evaluationprocessh;u taken place,the followlnc
                     stepswill take placein writ1nc:




               Annual Review: Next steps

• Approved Process
• Next Steps
     General Manager has provided Commission with his assessment of results vs goals
     Chair/ Secretary will distribute documents for each Commissioner to put in place
     written comments of their evaluation of the General Manager: Off-line


• Review of one subject in Executive Session - OML Exemption #4 "To discuss the
  deployment of security personnel or devices, or strategies with respect thereto"

• General Manager comments:
     Highlights
   - Obstacles Overcome




                                                                                                                              8/10
            2024 MMLD Highlights

1. Delivered the town's 2024 electric power needs with a 65%
   carbon-free wholesale power portfolio, a 55% increase from
   2023.
2. Delivered a 3.4% decrease in our 2024 average wholesale
   power cost to 10.9 cents/kwh, from 11.28 cents/kwh in 2023.
   The average Mhd residential customer saves 40% on their
   monthly electric bill, versus a customer in Salem or
   Swampscott - $1,135/year savings.




            2024 MMLD Highlights

3. Received APPA Excellence in Reliability Recognition, based on a
   national comparison of electric outage data. A 4-time winner.
4. Received notice of award for a $1.33 million grant, from the US
   Dept. of Energy Grid Resiliency & Innovation Partnership (GRIP}
   grant program, to improve the resiliency of our main electric
   supply lines from Salem, under increased threat of damage from
   climate change.
5. Made substantial progress on the Village 13 substation upgrade
   project.



            2024 MMLD Highlights

6. MMWEC presented MMLD with their 2024 NextZero
   Innovation Award, for the innovation and collaboration in
   pursuing program goals.
7. Substantially upgraded our IT/GIS capability- hiring the Dept.'s
   first IT/GIS Manager and upgrading the dept GIS and meter
   data network collection systems




                                                                      9/10
                2024 Obstacles Overcome

• Designed and installed a previously unplanned concrete land bridge
  at Village 13 to protect the Town force sewer main from heavy
  MMLD equipment deliveries; completed the installation without a
  slip in schedule.
• Completed negotiations of an access easement with a private
  property owner that enables the use of the Sessom Street ROW
  entrance for MMLD access to Village 13, to lessen concern over
  potential damage to the Town force sewer main.
• Met with Lincoln Ave residents on multiple occasions to explain the
  potential use of MMLD land on Tioga Way for a battery storage
  system.



                 2024 Obstacles Overcome

• Organized a multi-vendor solution to identify and solve a
  persistent data communications network reliability problem
  that threatened the timing of monthly electric billing cycles.
• Applied for and received a $120,000 grant to reimburse MMLD
  for unplanned construction expenses necessary to improve
  public access to Hammond Park and the adjacent Commercial
  St. waterfront area.


                Annual Review: Next steps

  Approved Process

  Next Steps
   - General Manager has provided Commission with his assessment of results vs goals
   - Chair/Secretary will distribute documents for each Commissioner to propose written evaluation of
     the General Manager: Off-line

  Review of one subject in Executive Session- OML Exemption #4 "To discussthe deployment
  of security personnel or devices, or strategies with respect thereto"

  General Manager comments:
   - Highlights
   - Obstacles Overcome




• PublicComments


• Processto Interview Candidatesfor MMLD GM position
  - Discussions


                                        ----****----
                                                                                                        10/10
