Light Commission June 3, 2025 meeting
Minutes of the Open Session and the Executive Session
To:             Light Commission: Commissioners
From:           Jean-Jacques Yarmoff
Date:           July 17, 2025



A quorum being present, Chair Yarmoff brought the meeting to order at 8:34 am. The meeting was held
in person and with remote internet access, both available to public participation. A recording of the
meeting is made available to the public at the following link.

Participated in the meeting
Commissioners: Commissioners Frechette, Smith, and Yarmoff all participated in person.
Light Commission Selection Subcommittee: Alexa Singer, Select Board Member; Tom Howard, Marblehead
HR Director; and Greg Chane, MMLD Distribution Manager also participated in person.

The Land Acknowledgement was read by Commissioner Frechette.

Comments from the Public
There were no participants from the public, whether in person or remote.

Process for the selection of the next General Manager
Commissioner Yarmoff reviewed the process for the selection of candidates.

Need for a Selection Subcommittee meeting in Executive Session of the Commission.
He explained that the Commission received more than 90 resumes after posting the MMLD General
Manager position publicly. Anything that the Commission does with regard to the selection of
candidates must be done with all members present and a public meeting, and any document discussed
becomes a public document. As it would not be ethical to have all the resumes received become public
documents, and as provided by the Open Meeting Law, the Light Commission has created at its last
meeting a Selection Subcommittee of the Light Commission.
The Subcommittee itself cannot have a quorum of the Commission, and this is why there are only two
Commissioners in this Selection Subcommittee. All the members of the Selection Subcommittee are
present in person today, together with Commissioner Yarmoff, who participates in the public session of
this meeting only.

Charge of the Selection Subcommittee
The Selection Subcommittee is charged by the Light Commission with recommending three candidates,
as finalists for public interviews by the full Light Commission.

The Selection Subcommittee may do so by reviewing the resumes and by holding preliminary interviews
with likely candidates. The recommendation of three finalist candidates is the limit of its charge: as very
clearly described by the Attorney General in the “Open Meeting Law Guide and Educational Materials”


                                                                                                        1/2
any further stage of the hiring process beyond the “subcommittee vot[ing] to recommend candidates to
its parent body” must be done in public session.

Executive Session
During the public meeting of the Light Commission held on June 3, 2025, Chair Yarmoff declared that an
open session would have detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants for the position of MMLD
General Manager. He requested a motion to enter Executive Session to consider or interview applicants
for employment or appointment by the Screening Committee of the Light Commission, not to return to
open session.
The motion was moved by Commissioner Yarmoff, seconded by Commissioner Frechette.
Votes: Simon Frechette: Yes; Adam Smith, Yes; Jean-Jacques Yarmoff: Yes.

The Executive Session started at 8:43 am, with Commissioners Frechette and Smith and the other
members of the Selection Subcommittee of the Light Commission, Alexa Singer, Select Board Member;
Tom Howard, Marblehead HR Director; Greg Chane, MMLD Distribution Manager all participating in
person. Commissioner Yarmoff left the meeting at that point.

The Selection Subcommittee then proceeded to review the 95 resumes received from applicants,
discussed and agreed on a scoring matrix. After a group discussion, the Selection Subcommittee decided
to proceed with interviewing 5 applicants who all seem to have – on paper – experience that would
potentially qualify them for the job. These interviews will take place during an Executive Session of the
Light Commission and the Selection Subcommittee, to be organized at a later date.

The Executive Session concluded at 10:30 am at which point a motion to adjourn was proposed,
seconded and, after a roll call of the Subcommittee members voting unanimously in favor, adopted.

                                               ----****----




                                                                                                      2/2
