Light Commission October 28, 2025, Meeting Minutes
To:             Light Commission: Commissioners
                Light Department: J. Blair, General Manager
From:           Matt Harrington
Date:           October 28, 2025



A quorum being present, Chair Yarmoff brought the meeting to order at 4:03 pm. The meeting was held in
person at MMLD HQ and with remote internet access, both available to public participation. A recording of
the meeting is made available to the public at the following link.

Participated in meeting:
     Commissioners:             Commissioners Frechette, Hull, Harrington, Smith, and Yarmoff participated in
                                person.
      Light Department:         General Manager, Jon Blair

Comments from the Public
No Public Comments

Marblehead Land Acknowledgment declaration was read by Commissioner Frechette.

Motion by the Secretary to approve minutes
Motion to approve minutes from open meetings dated July 14, July 22, July 28, Sept 9; and executive
session minutes from July 22, July 28. Seconded by Frechette.
    • VOTE 2025-28: Unanimous Approval
        *Note by Smith to make sure that attendees know that despite minutes being slow to post
        video recordings of meetings are usually posted next day.

Chair Yarmoff requested feedback from commissioners on the town charter document that we received
after our last meeting. If no feedback is received it will be assumed approved.

General Manager Report and Update by GM Jon Blair (JB):
   • First four weeks JB has seen the entirety of the system and met every member of the
       organization and a handful of residents. Blair indicated that the department is in good shape to
       make progress over the next few years. Everything that Blair assumed in advance of taking the
       job has proved true, strong finances, strong team, strong foundation.
   • JB would like to set a clear vision with some more structure to measure progress going forward.
       JB voiced that the department may understand where it is going, but a plan makes it
       transparent for all stakeholders.
   • JB’s Safety Spotlight: keep note of daylight savings and short daylight, it is common for traffic
       accidents to spike, along with weather and leaves. Many streetlight outages reported.
           o Smith added that the Park and Rec department gave thanks to MMLD for providing the
               use of the digger derrick to help install the new lights at Gatchell’s
   • Manager Updates (see slides):
           o IN PROGRESS
                                                                                                   1/16
        ▪  Job Search: Department is searching for a meter technician to prepare for an
           impending opening.
       ▪ MASS DEP Compliance- Received a letter indicating a potential issue with the
           underground fuel storage tank. In response, department will begin monthly
           inspections, prepare a rapid improvement plan with the help of a consultant,
           and set up a long-term plan. DPW was also consulted about how they manage
           their tanks.
       ▪ Wilkins Plant Testing: Consultants booked to do a 3yr stack test in December.
           Coordinating with MMWEC to allow testing in coordination of grid.
       ▪ Village13: Schedule has slipped a bit. Not a single cause, but lots of small
           moving pieces that add up to longer delays. Weekly meetings are keeping things
           on track. On pace to get any digging necessary before the ground freezes.
                • Smith asked about some extra clearing that has been done around the
                    Village 13 site. Yarmoff mentioned that there are some new poles being
                    put in to help complete the project. JB confirmed that the yard is not
                    growing, but some space was needed for additional poles.
                • JJY asked when the final acceptance of the switchgear will take place. JB
                    said that this should take place Late February or early March.
       ▪ Insurance: Full appraisal of our property being completed, as well as other
           updates to policy.
       ▪ CEC Grant Contract- It has been going back and forth, we have fulfilled our
           obligations, and we are waiting for CEC to sign off and announce. The grant is
           for the transmission resilience project.
o   Long Term
       ▪ Strategic and Capital planning- Focus for JB over the next 12+ months. Working
           with team members to get a pulse on what is needed and seeing what sort of
           sustainability grants and plans can assist.
                • JB hypothesized what direction our strategic plan be focused
                    Affordability? Decarbonization? Hyperfocus on reliability and resilience?
                         o JB added that this will tie into our vision.
       ▪ Policy Development- JB opined that it would be helpful if the board could help
           enact policies that would allow the department to make decisions without
           needing individual approvals. A recent example would be the Job Applicant
           travel policy and Public EV Charging
       ▪ Projects:
                • Transmission Resilience- Waiting on CEC approvals
                • Battery Energy Storage (BESS)- Economics are changing substantially at
                    the federal level. Need to explore if the BESS program will work or if it
                    needs to change. Might need to act decisively in the next 8-10 weeks to
                    take advantage of tax credits before the end of the year.
                         o Yarmoff mentioned that the economic benefits of going forward
                              could be close to $1m/yr split between LightShift and MMLD.
                • Distribution System- Lots of work to be done, and the team is
                    prioritizing. They are working with business manager Matt Barrett to
                    plan out capitalization plan utilizing the depreciation fund.
                         o Overhead work- Mostly able to do in house
                                                                                          2/16
                                o   Underground work- Trenching and other items outsourced
•   Yarmoff: Goals for GM
       o Contract for JB requires the board to provide goals for GM for the next 12 months. See
           Slides for details on what needs to be provided to GM to complete his job satisfactorily,
           and earn bonuses
       o Chair proposes to adopt the current objectives as guidance for the 6-month period Sept
           2025- March 2026. This will allow board and GM to progress through past due goals and
           develop new goals for the final 6 months of the contract year.
       o See slides for the existing objectives being proposed.
       o Smith mentions that these have been set goals for a few years, and it is good to see that
           we are making progress.
       o JB seeking clarification of the difference between the objectives and goals outlined.
               ▪ Yarmoff clarifies that the longer list of objectives is a performance guideline to
                    assess overall performance. The 3 bullet shorter list is for bonus assessment.
               ▪ JB understands explanation and agrees.
       o Discussion regarding the need to separate the performance and bonus objectives. All
           understand the idea to separate them into an “Objective and Key Result- OKR” style
           framework.
       o Discussion regarding the timing of how the calendar runs for the objectives and
           performance
       o Motion by Smith to adopt the GM’s yearly objectives and performance goals seconded
           by Frechette.
               ▪ VOTE 2025-29- Unanimous Yes

•   Yarmoff: MassCEC TDA Program
       o Climate tech testing and demo program from the Mass leads act of 2024
       o Grants from $1.5-$5m for shared infrastructure (See slides for full details).
       o Yarmoff on behalf of Innoventure Labs (IVL) of which Yarmoff is a board member) with
           support of JB submitted an application that was approved.
               ▪ IVL/MMLD proposal:
                       • Build pads near our proposed utility scale batteries with
                            interconnections to allow entrepreneurs to test new and innovative
                            batteries.
                       • Similar scale project to V13 and if awarded MassCEC would provide a
                            $4.5m Grant
                       • Possible benefits to town:
                                o MMLD could receive rental revenue from companies using the
                                    testing site
                                o Allow a connection during an emergency to plug in a townwide
                                    generator through this.
               ▪ Frechette asked if there were any specific types of batteries being proposed.
                       • Yarmoff said that it would be up to the market to decide
               ▪ Question from Logan Casey (Town of Marblehead): For this application is there a
                   specific property defined for the battery system.



                                                                                               3/16
                            •  Yarmoff responded that Tioga has been the primary focus, but we are
                               still needing to finalize a site. Leaving it somewhat generic in the
                               application is ok and provides flexibility.
                    ▪   Question from Hull: If the grant is secured is there a penalty for backing out?
                           • Yarmoff indicated that there is no penalty for backing out
                    ▪   Question from Hull: Asked Yarmoff if there was a conflict of interest due to
                        Yarmoff’s affiliation with Innoventure Labs.
                           • Yarmoff responded that he has no salary or financial interest in any
                               organization involved in this project.
                    ▪   Smith pondered if there was a need for IVL to work with a utility company for
                        them to test the batteries?
                           • Yarmoff mentioned there is appeal for the battery companies to work
                               with real world conditions. To go bring the product to market the
                               potential customers might want to know that it worked in real situation.

Motion by chair to move to Executive session using Exemption 3 to open meeting law to discuss strategy
with respect to litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of
the public body and the chair so declares. The board will not return to open session. Seconded by
Frechette.
    • Vote: Unanimous Yes

The executive session started at 5:16 pm.

See Next Page for Appendix with referenced documents:




                                                                                                    4/16
                     MMLD Board Meeting
                      October 28, 2025




0           Agenda

4:00 Call to Order
     Public Comments
     Previous Meetings: Minutes, Town Charter comments
     General Manager Report
     Goals for the General Manager
     Application to MassCECClimateTech TOA program
     Executive Session: Not to return to Open Session
     Adjourn




                                                         5/16
0           Agenda

4:00 Call to Order
     Public Comments
     Previous Meetings: Minutes, Town Charter comments
     General Manager Report
     Goals for the General Manager
     Application to MassCECClimateTech TDA program
     Executive Session: Not to return to Open Session
     Adjourn




0           Minutes of Previous Meetings

  The minutes of the following meetings have been distributed:
    July 14 Public Meeting
     July 22 Public Meeting
     July 22 Executive Session
     July 28 Public Meeting
     July 28 Executive Session
     Sept. 9 Public Meeting

Minutes for meetings of 9/16, 9/22 and 9/24 are pending




                                                                 6/16
0           Agenda
4:00 Call to Order
     Public Comments
     Previous Meetings: Minutes, Town Charter comments
     General Manager Report
     Goals for the General Manager
     Application to MassCECClimateTech TDA program
     Executive Session: Not to return to Open Session
     Adjourn




0           Agenda
4:00 Call to Order
     Public Comments
     Previous Meetings: Minutes, Town Charter comments
     General Manager Report
     Goals for the General Manager
     Application to MassCECClimateTech TDA program
     Executive Session: Not to return to Open Session
     Adjourn




                                                         7/16
0                    Goalsfor the General Manager

Per contract General Manager and Board have to agree on:
• Objectives for the full calendar year;
• Performance Goals to determine Performance Bonus.




0
•
                     Yearly Objectives; PerformanceGoals
    SectionV. General Manager Evaluation.
B. The Commission and the General Manager shall meet at least annually to define the goals and objectives which they
determine necessary for the proper operation of the MMLD and the attainment of the Commission's policy objectives,
and shall further establish a general priority among those various goals and objectives, with said goals and objectives to
be reduced to writing. Said goals and objectivesshall be establishedby October 29th of each contractualyear for the
following contract year period, and shall generally be attainable within the time limits specified and within the annual
operating and capital budgets and appropriations provided by the MMLD and the events that have occurred during the
year.


•   SectionIV. Salary
C. At the conclusion of the first and each subsequent year of the contract, the General Manager may also receive, at the
Board's discretion, a performance bonus of up to five percent (5%) of his salary in effect at the time which will be based
on performance as measuredagainstagreed upon goalsand the financial condition of MMLD. Said amount will be in
addition to any merit increase given as part of the annual review process described in Section B above. Paid bonuses
shall be reported as wages for the purposes of taxation and calculation of pension to the extent permitted by law, but
will not be added to the General Manager's base salary.




                                                                                                                        8/16
0                Yearly Objectives Proposal

• Adopt the current objectives as guidance for the period
  September 2025 - March 2026;


• Request the GM to propose a set of new objectives, by
  3/15/2026 for the period April 2026 - September 2026




0                Objectives {1/3)

    A. Human Resources and Safety
       1. Define chain of command within organization chart; create succession plan            Essential
       2.   Expand capacity and de elop robust sustainability and communica ions programs      Essential
       3.   Expand capacity and develop robust engineering department                          Essential

       4. Continue departme t safety and tralnlne: proe:rams                                   Important


    B. Operations & Infrastructure
       1. Continue Village 13 Substa ion capital improvement project                           Essential
       2. Create 3-year operational work plan for distribu ion sys em and engineering ap· al
                  improvements                                                                 Essential
       3.   Draft a plan to supplement thee ,sting Railyard substation's dual 23kV
            tran mi ion u ply line an /or o provide emporary em rgen y upply                   Important




                                                                                                           9/16
0                Objectives {2/3)

C. Ensure Financial Stability & Competitive              Rates
    1. Continue new      te stru ture d   ign and de elop implementation timeline                      Es enti I

    2. Draft demand mana2ement plan with tar2ets to materially reduce consumption
       during high consumption hours. including likely peak                                            Essential

    3. Identify and apply to relevant grant programs                                                   Essential

    4.   Prepare three-year Capital investmen plan afi2ned     ith Operation I up    de pl n           Essential

    5. Evaluat options and ev lop a strate21cplan to optimiz th Wilkin Plant value,
       that include bo h economic, sy m resiliency and carbon em1ss10ncons1dera ions                   Important




0                Objectives {3/3)
     D. Decarbonlze Power Supply
         1.   De elop comprehensives ra e ic pan for BES inc din p imal total sto e capac1
              taree s and a me hodolo to rank pre erred po en a s1es on T m owne land                    Essential

         2. E plore options to procure or install additional cecarbon zed po ~er to reach 70",
            carbon- ree power b 2028 and 85 by 2033                                                      Important


     E. Communicate with Stakeholders,              Improve Customer Service and Education
         1    launch regular commumc ,ons w h cu om rs (b, Is se /em 1/soc,almed1 )                      Essential

         2    Cre e n mteera ed commumc                                 wsl   er, news     ed1a,
               ocial media, web site, emer e                                                             Essential

         3. Survey customers to establish b selme f ustomer                                      mer
            a itudes reeardine MM and customer level stra e                                              Important

              Participate m re vant Town 1nit1a1v that unloc Fe era and S       e   ndin                Important




                                                                                                                     10/16
0           Yearly Performance Goals Proposal

• Define chain of command within organization chart; create
  succession plan with clear responsibilities


• Create 3-year capital investment plan for distribution and
  engineering systems improvements


• Complete Village 13 Substation Upgrade




0           Proposal to adopt Objectives and Goals

• Motion to adopt the described General Manager's
  - Yearly Objectives and
  - Performance Goals




                                                               11/16
0           Agenda

      all to Order
     Public Comments
     Previous Meetings: Minutes, Town Charter comments
     General Manager Report
     Goals f r he General            i1er
     Application to MassCEC ClimateTech TOA program
     Executive Session: o        ore urn o      pen Session
     Adjourn




0            MassCEC's TDA Program

MassCEClaunched ClimateTech Testing and Demonstration Program
under the Mass Leads Act of 2024

• Open to Entrepreneur Support Organizations (ESOs)
• Grants of between $1.SM to $SM for Shared Infrastructure
  - Infrastructure must be available for at least 10 years
  - Capital projects must be completed within 3 years of grant (before 4/29)
  - Partners must share 20% of cash expenditures




                                                                         12/16
0           TDA Program

Two phase com petition
• RFPrelease              22 July 2025
• Concept Papers due      14 September 2025
• Invitation to apply     14 October 2025
• Full Application        14 November 2025

IVL sent a concept paper with MMLD, and has been invited to
apply. Concept paper was very well received by reviewers.




0            IVL- MMLDproposal

• Build several pads next to Utility Scale Battery
• Allowing to connect and test innovative batteries


• Total project:    estimated at $5.5M
     of which       MassCEC'sshare: $4.5M


• Discussions this week to decide whether to file full application




                                                                     13/16
0
4.00_ .   v   .Jrder
                       Agenda

          Public Comments
          Previous Meetings: Minutes, Town Charter comments
          General Manager Report
          Goals for the General Manager
           n l,r ~inn ~n JI .,.,rEr rl rn~t ...   ~



ExecutiveSession.Exemption 3 to Open Meeting Law, to discuss
strategy with respect to litigation if an open meeting may have a
detrimental effect on the litigating position of the public body and
the chair so declares. Not to return to Open Session.




General Manager Update
Board of Electric Commissioners Meeting
October 28, 2025




          MMLD




                                                                   14/16
Safety Minute




Manager Updates


 Meter Technician                         Strategic and capital planning
 MassDEP compliance                       Policy development
 Wilkins testing                          Projects
 Village 13 substation                    • DOE/MassCEC Transmission Resilience
                                          • Battery Energy Storage System
 Insurance update
                                          • Distribution System
 CEC grant contract
                                             - Overhead
                                             - Underground




  Marblehead Municipal Light Department




                                                                                  15/16
Thank you


Contact Info:
                "blair   mhdld.com
                (781) 584-5472




                                     16/16
