Light Commission July 22, 2025 Open Meeting Minutes
To:              Light Commission: Commissioners
                 Light Department: J. Kowalik, General Manager
From:            Matt Harrington
Date:            Oct 28, 2025



A quorum being present, Chair Yarmoff brought the meeting to order at 4:06 pm. The meeting was held in
person at MMLD HQ and with remote internet access, both available to public participation. A recording of
the meeting is made available to the public at the following link.

Participated in meeting:
     Commissioners:       Commissioners Frechette, Hull, Harrington, and Yarmoff participated in person.
                          Commissioner Smith participated via Zoom.
      Light Department:   General Manager, Joe Kowalik
      DOER:               Dillan Patel, Northeast Regional Coordinator, Green Communities, Massachusetts
                          Department of Energy Resources
      Town of Marblehead: Logan Casey, Sustainability Coordinator, Community Development & Planning
                          Dept

Marblehead Land Acknowledgment declaration was read by Commissioner Frechette.

Executive Session
   • Motion to meet in Executive Session to conduct a strategy session in preparation for
        negotiations with non-union personnel was moved by Vice Chair Frechette, seconded by
        Commissioner Hull
   • Roll call vote: Frechette: Yes; Harrington: Yes; Hull: Yes; Smith: Yes; Yarmoff: Yes.

The executive session started at 4:08 pm, with Commissioners Frechette, Hull, Harrington, and Yarmoff
participating in person. Commissioner Smith participated via Zoom.

The executive session concluded at 4:58 pm with a roll call of participating commissioners, all voting in
favor of returning to an open session. After resolving technical issues, the meeting started again around
5:05 pm.


Public Session

Comments from the Public
   • Albert Jordan (in person)- Expressed displeasure in Joe Kowalik leaving and hopes that the new
     GM has local knowledge. Let the commission know that he thought it would be a good idea to
     have rates that charged higher rates to large users of electricity.
   • Charlie Burckmyer (in person)- Expressed disappointment in losing Joe Kowalik.
   • No comments from on-line participants

Approval of minutes of prior meetings

                                                                                                     1/16
    •  Approval of minutes of the Board’s Selection Subcommittee meetings of June 3, June 6 and June
       13. The June 17 meeting of the Selection Subcommittee was cancelled.
           o Hull suggested that the Subcommittee should approve their minutes before the full
               commission does. Board members agreed.
   • VOTE 2025-19 Motion to approve the minutes of the July 9 Executive Session
           o Motion moved by Hull, seconded by Frechette
           o Roll call vote: Frechette: Yes; Harrington: Yes; Hull: Yes; Smith: Yes; Yarmoff: Yes
Review of current General Manager
   • Vote #2025-20 on a motion to approve a salary raise for the current GM by 3%, applied
       retroactively to April 8, 2025, based on performance vs goals for calendar year 2024.
           o Motion moved by Hull, seconded by Frechette
           o Roll call vote: Frechette: Yes; Harrington: Abstain; Hull: Yes; Smith: Yes; Yarmoff: Yes

Appointment of next General Manger, Jon Blair
   • Vote #2025-21 on a motion to appoint Jon Blair as the next MMLD General Manager
          o Motion moved by Harrington, Seconded by Frechette
          o Discussion:
                   ▪ Hull asks what is the transition plan
                            • Yarmoff says the only action the board can take is to appoint a GM.
                            • Transition is operational and out of the board’s jurisdiction.
                   ▪ Hull follows up to see how long Joe will stay
                            • Yarmoff states that it depends on when the next GM can assume the
                                position, which until we talk with him, is unknown. But as the process of
                                hiring a new GM has been ongoing for some time and is uncomfortable
                                for everybody, this transition should occur as quickly as possible.
                   ▪ Smith speaking as a member of the Selection Subcommittee:
                            • The Subcommittee set out a set of criteria (See criteria list on page 16)
                                to evaluate 90 resumes and narrow it down based on important criteria.
                                Jon Blair was the top candidate from the start based on technical and
                                GM experience. It gives Smith a lot of confidence that he can get the job
                                done. Smith supports the motion
                   ▪ Frechette reported that the Subcommittee voted to choose Jon Blair
                       unanimously, including MMLD staff members.
          o Roll call vote:
                   ▪ Frechette: Yes; Harrington: Yes; Hull: Abstain; Smith: Yes; Yarmoff: Yes
                   ▪ Hull agrees that Blair is the best candidate despite being not happy with the
                       process, the reason for the abstain vote.
   • Vote #2025-22 on a motion to empower the Chair and Secretary to negotiate an employment
       contract with the next GM.
          o See Motion in last slide on page 5: “Motion to request that the Light Commission Chair,
               assisted by the Light Commission Secretary, negotiate the terms of an employment
               contract with the chosen candidate for the General Manager position at MMLD, within
               the guidelines fixed by the board in executive session.”
          o Moved by Frechette, seconded by Hull
          o Roll call vote: Frechette: Yes; Harrington: Yes; Hull: Yes; Smith: Yes; Yarmoff: Yes

                                                                                                    2/16
Green Communities Program overview
• Dillan Patel, Regional Coordinator for Green Communities and Logan Casey (MHD) present.
       o See attached slides for details
       o Questions
               ▪ Hull: Clarifying that the only guaranteed grant is the initial grant
                       • Confirmed by presenter
               ▪ Hull: What are the penalties for exiting?
                       • Presenter said that the penalties are steep.
               ▪ Hull: Do the grants only go to municipal or private? If we exit the program, do
                   they need to be paid back?
                       • Patel: Will follow up with details
               ▪ Hull: Asked if cost to participate could change in the future?
                       • Harrington followed up to see a cost change, can it trigger an opt-out?
                       • Patel - Cost changes would take an act of legislature and would not
                           allow an opt-out.
               ▪ Kowalik: Asking about the number of MLPs that are enrolled. Has this been
                   economically beneficial for the rate payers? Interested in benefit for taxpayers,
                   but paid by rate payers. Can we get the value of benefit received by
                   participants?
                       • Patel: Ashburnham has received $500k in grants, and can get the
                           numbers for other MLP
                       • Casey: Can investigate the data as well
       o Community question: Does the lack of 3A approval impact ability for grants
               ▪ Patel and Casey: Unknown, but they will investigate.
       o The Chair concluded that a request from the Select Board to the Light Board will be
          necessary for the Light Board to consider a RET charge. And expresses that our rates
          very competitive.

General Manager Updates

•   Village 13 Upgrade
                ▪ Major milestone met:
                        • Five switchgear pieces delivered and installed successfully
                        • Thank you to MPD, Highway, Water & Sewer, MMLD, and 8 vendors.
                             (Full list in slides)
                        • Overview of completed steps and next steps in slides
                ▪ Budget in Slides
                        • $10 million project paid out of in-house funds without debt or increases
                ▪ Yarmoff acknowledges the difficulty of a project like this while working with live
                    power and coordination with water and sewer challenges, ensuring continuing
                    service to the town.

                                                                                                3/16
                   ▪   Frechette asked for a summary of delays out of MMLD control
                           • Joe: Equipment almost a year late due to supplier issues such as a cyber-
                               attack and a factory move. As well as working around transformers that
                               arrived too early.

   •   New Employee Introduction: Michael Hall - Energy Efficiency Marketing Coordinator

   •   MMLD New EV Charging Infrastructure Policy
         o Policy has come up as there was a meeting between Town and School about EV
            charging. MMLD should have a standing policy
         o Proposal: MMLD lead the design, installation, operation and maintenance of public EV
            Charging (See slides for additional components)
         o EV Charging at schools could be a good benefit to attract quality town and school
            employees
         o Why MMLD?
                 ▪ We understand current loads and limitations.
                 ▪ Experience in managing 10 Public Level 2 chargers
                 ▪ Example of creating an MMLD strategic electrification fund
         o Frechette asked if other MLPs have done these?
                 ▪ Joe said that not many, but it is often because other communities have more
                     commercially available charging
         o Yarmoff thinks that the proposal makes sense for three reasons:
                 ▪ 1. Infrastructure can be complicated and expensive, and MMLD has the
                     experience.
                 ▪ 2 Being able to control peak usage is a benefit due to expected increased
                     electricity demand. Random and uncoordinated Charger installation could
                     destabilize the grid.
                 ▪ 3 As an “old town” resident without a driveway, JJY and other old town
                     residents need to rely on public charging infrastructure. MMLD has the most
                     public infrastructure (infrastructure and poles in all the streets) and is best
                     placed to bring infrastructure equitably to all residents.
         o Smith adds Gerry School renovation is installing 2 EV chargers, and perhaps this is a
            good use case.
         o Logan Casey adds Brown School and Gerry projects have spearheaded the need for this
            conversation. Green Marblehead Committee is pushing for more public charging
            infrastructure and could be a good liaison from the town to the MMLD.


A motion to adjourn was moved by Commissioner Hull, seconded by Commissioner Frechette
Votes: Simon Frechette: Yes; Mike Hull: Yes; Adam Smith, yes; Jean-Jacques Yarmoff: Yes; Matt
Harrington: Yes. The meeting concluded at 6:20 pm.

                                           ----****----
        Documents showed during the July 22nd meeting are reproduced in the following pages.



                                                                                                 4/16
            Agenda

4:00 Call to Order, Executive Session
5:00 Open Session, Public Comments
     Candidates for GM, Process next steps. Votes
     General Manager review and Vote
5:30 Green Communities review
6:00 GM updates
6:30 Adjourn




            New General Manager Process: Next steps

• Propose to empower Chair and Secretary to negotiate
  employment contract: vote in open session


• Draft specific contract, legal review
• Disseminate draft to Board


• Negotiate with candidate




            New General Manager Process: Motion

• Motion to request that the Light Commission Chair, assisted by
  the Light Commission Secretary, negotiate the terms of an
  employment contract with the chosen candidate for the
  General Manager position at MMLD, within the guidelines
  fixed by the board in executive session.




                                                                   5/16
              General Manager's Updates

• Village 13 substation project update
• New MMLD Policy proposal: MMLD to assume lead
  responsibility for the design, installation, operation, and
  maintenance of the town's public EV charging infrastructure.




              Village 13 substation project update
             Switchgear Construction Schedule
             Myers Controlled Power- Canton, Ohio
        Task                                      Dates
        Housing Construction & Assembly           Complete
        Electrical Wiring                         March 6 - June 6
        Testing                                   June 9 -June 24
        Customer Final Assembly Testing           June 23 -June 24
        Pi. c~ st R s ut n                        un •       Ju    !1
        Di ,a, ,mbly into 5 ection, fo1Shipping   July 1-July 14
        Ship to Marblehead Village 13 site        July 14- July 18 (arriving July 17 & 18)




              MMLD New EV Charging Infrastructure Policy

• Lead the design, installation, operation, and maintenance of
  public EV charging
• To include EV charging of town fleet vehicles, town employee
  vehicles, residents, and visitors
• To include EV charging on town building sites, public parking
  lots, and on street parking.
• May include agreements with private commercial and
  industrial property owners who want to offer their customers
  or employees onsite EV charging.




                                                                                             6/16
              MMLD EV Charging Infrastructure Policy

Why does it make sense?
1. MMLD knows the current electric loads & limitations at potential
   locations ...manage installation costs and capacity planning.
2. MMLD has the experience of managing 10 public Level 2 EV charging
   spaces for the past ~3+ years, with excellent EV charger operational
   uptime
3. An example of MMLD Strategic Electrification Funding: MMLD can
   choose to absorb the installation costs and future costs for preventive
   maintenance, extended warranty payments, and set pricing of EV
   charging rates. Only the wintertime snow shoveling of parking spaces is
   TBD...or left to DPW.




              MMLD EV Charging Infrastructure Policy

4. Support to the Marblehead Public School EVfleet vehicles and employee
   car charging at school parking lots town-wide. (Recognize MPS as the
   largest single employer in Marblehead.)
5. Knowledge of existing DEP EVIPstate grant programs and
   MassCEC/DOER/MMWECdemonstration grant programs, as Vehicle to
   Grid.
6. Potential for synergy with MMLD's NextZero residential smart charging
   programs.
7. Ability to directly control EV public charging demand during critical
   peak periods.




              MMLD EV Charging Infrastructure Policy

8. Avoid a hodge-podge of uncoordinated        public EV charging units,
   with varying pricing and reliability.
9. Roundhouse Road - MMLD & Select Board have shared in the care,
   custody, and control of the town's largest off-street public parking
   lot.
10. MMLD's new Energy Programs Manager has EV charging installation
    and operations experience.




                                                                             7/16
Our Mission                                           Who We Are: As the State Energy Office, DOERis the primary
                                                      energy policy agency for the Commonwealth. DOERsupports the
                                                      Commonwealth's clean energy goals as port of a comprehensive
                                                      Administration-wide response to the threat of climate change.
                                                      DOERfocuses on transitioning our energy supply to lower emissions
                                                      and costs, reducing and shaping energy demand, and improving our
The Department of Energy Resources'                   energy system infrastructure.
(DOER) mission 11to create a clean,                   What We Do: To meet our objectives, DOERconnects and
affordable, resilient, and equitable energy           callab~rotes with energy stakeholders to develop effective policy.
                                                      DOERimplements this policy through planning, regulation, and
future for all In the Commonwealth.
                                                                 ~~!':rf'u':irftse:at~:,fg~"rt~f 1~,~~'n
                                                      ~~~:tiz"ftf::S~'~gd                           energy goals.
                                                      DOERIs committed to transparency and education, supporting the
                                                      accessible access to energy Information and knowledge.




Introduction
• The Green Communities Program provides technical assistance
  and funding to municipalities for municipal energy efficiency and
  decarbonization
• Set up under the Green Communities Act of 2008, and first GCs
  designated in 2010
• $54 million awarded so far
      Over 30 municipalities receiving more than $1 million since designation

• Nearing 300 out of 351 municipalities
• Grants are funded through Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative
  (RGGI) allocations - more on this later


                                                                                                     •I ,       --

                                                                                                                           8/16
                          GREEN COMMUNITYDESIGNATIONS
                            TWO HUNDRED NINETY-EIGHT




                                       READING

                    -     ,.._ Gr--n    C~i~           De:sf9ruit10II   -   >~• 202S
                    -     p,._iously     O.s1g"~t:ed      C-,n,ity




                                                                                               s I




Becoming a Green Community
M.G..L.Cb..2.SA.§1.0

  As-of right siting and expedited permitting
   • RE
   • RE R&D
   • RE Industry

  Stretch Code

  FEY Policy

  20% municipal energy reduction

  RETCharge
   • At least one IOU customer
                                                                                       ♦-+·H-ii·iHH:ifuiH:F
   • RET agreement with MassCEC                                                                6   I     --
Renewable Energy Trust
MG LCh 20§20

Section 20. (a) The department shall require a mandatory charge of 0.5 mill per
kilowatt-hour for all electricity consumers, except those served by a municipal lighting
plant [ ... ].to support the development and promotion of renewable energy projects.
All revenues generated by the mandatory charge shall be deposited into the
Massachusetts Renewable Energy Trust Fund, established under section 9 of
chapter 23J.
(b) Notwithstanding any general or special law to the contrary: (1) a municipal lighting
plant which does not supply generation service outside its own service territory[ ... ]
may elect to assess and remit a mandatory charge per kilowatt-hour upon its electricity
consumers on the same terms and conditions as apply to the charge imposed on
consumers residing in competitive distribution service territories under this section;
provided, however, that such an election by a municipal lighting plant shall be
irrevocable [ ... )and (2) in administering the Massachusetts Renewable Energy Trust
Fund, the Massachusetts clean energy technology center, shall not make any grant
or loan or provide any subsidy from the trust fund to any municipal lighting plant
or consumer residing in the distribution service territory of such municipal
lighting plant unless: {A) a mandatory charge per kilowatt-hour is assessed
against all consumers residing in the distribution service territory and remitted to
the collaborative under the first sentence of subsection (a)[ ... ] Iexceptions made for
demonstrable public benefits or extraordinary circumstances]
                                                                                               7   I ,   --

                                                                                                              9/16
What is MassCEC?
The Oean Energy Center is a quasi-state agency.


MassCEC supports municipalities, non-profits, commercial
entities and residences for decarbonization and electrification.
Support can be through technical assistance, grants, planning
support, or loans and can include:
    Decarbonization roadmap planning

    Vehicle-to-grid bi-directional charging
    School decarbonization   planning and funding (Green School Works)
    Climate tech
    School bus electrification planning and deployment
    Workforce development

    Housing retrofits
                                                                                               s I    •   --
What does the RET go to?
It helps fund MassCEC operations.

     MassCEC receives $20-22 million a year from the charge.
•    Majority of funding comes from govt transfers and wind turbine services.
•    Govt transfers vary widely from year to year depending on special
     projects.
•    Many MassCEC offerings are contingent on paying the RETunless it is in
     the public interest.
•    Joining the RETis irrevocable and there are penalty payments for
     derogation.
•    The $0.0005/kwh charge has not changed since inception. Changing it
     would require an Act by the General Court.
•    Joining the RETdoes not guarantee any funding from MassCEC; each
     grant nas its own eligibility parameters.                  • 1 5-...:...



Who has adopted the RET?
10 MLPs:                                                 I But the map has more MLPs that are Green
                                                           Communities!
    Ashburnham                                             MLPs can circumvent the RET
    Falmouth                                               charge if at least one customer
    Gosnold                                                within or along municipal borders
    Holden                                                 gets electricity service from a
    Holyoke                                                regulated utility (Eversource,
    Russell
                                                           National Grid).
    Templeton
    Ipswich
    Boxborough
    Reading (most recently)


                                                                                              '° I ,      --

                                                                                                               10/16
Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative
RGGI 101

  Regional GHG cap-and-trade program
  among 11 northeast states; MA joined in
  2008 under the Green Communities Act                   ■ RGGl,lnc.
                                                                       RGGIInvestments by Recipient in 2022



                                                         ■ Admlnlsoatlon
                                                                                                                    •
  Fossil power plants pay for carbon credits via
                                                         ■ Benetk:lalEtec1rtrJcatlon
  auction
                                                         ■ MOR-EV
  Auction proceeds distributed to each state;
                                                         ■ G1een
                                                               Communities
  MA received $1.2 bn since 2008
                                                         ■ Ut1\llyEEProg,ams
  per law some$ goes to Green Communities
  Marblehead MLD pays indirectly through                                                 $10    $20         $30     $40   $50
  wholesale purchases from fossil power plants                                                 Millionsol Dollars
  (e.g. Stony Brook and Spot Market)
  In 2022 MA invested $72 million from RGGI                                              Source: Mass.gov
  auction proceeds
       $12 million goes to Green
       Commun1t1es
    • Remainder to Mass Save and MOR-EV
                                                                                                   " I•           --
To be clear ...
RETis separate from Green Communities.             The RETfunds MassCECOperations.

                                                   Adopting the RET is one criterion for
The RET requirement for                            Green Communities Designation AND it
become a Green                                     unlocks funding from MassCEC.

Community was the
intent of the 2008 Green
                                                   RGGIfunds Green Communities Grants.
Communities Act even
though the RET has                                 Marblehead ratepayers already
                                                   pay into RGGI indirectly through
nothing to do with
                                                   any fossil generation purchases
Green Communities.                                 that MLD makes.

                                                                                                   12   1         --
Quick Summary
RGGI                                            I RET


       0    RGGI ls a multlstate compact
            that already Influences
            wholesale electric purchases.
                                                        0           IOUs must charge the RET;
                                                                    optional for MLPs but
                                                                    mandatory if becoming a
                                                                    Green Community.

       ©    RGGI funds Green
            Communities.
                                                        ©RETfunds                      MassCEC.



            Green Communities                                       MassCEC benefits the
            benefits Town-owned                                     public and private sectors.
            buildings.



                                                                                                   13   1 ,       --

                                                                                                                                11/16
                                    eats·
                                                   GreenCommunities
                                                   MMLD Conversation




Why is Marblehead considering this?
• 2018 Town Meeting Article 45- "100% Carbon Free
  energy ... including in electricity production, building energy
  use and transportation ..."
• 2023 Net Zero Roadmap-Adopted by Select Board,
  formalized Community-wide Net Zero by 2040 goal
   • Becoming a Green Community is goal


Green Communities aligns with our community's Net Zero
goals and will provide financial support necessary to help
us get there

                                     Adda footer




Application Requirements
0 As-of-right zoning for renewable energy facilities
01 year or less permitting process for siting renewable energy
facilities
□ Establish a Municipal Energy Baseline and develop an Energy
 Reduction Plan
□Adopt fuel-efficient vehicle procurement policy

0 Adopt the Stretch Building Code

Municipal Light Plant Communities: Must adopt Renewable
Energy Charge




                                                                       12/16
Benefits to Green Communities Designation
 Designation Grant
 • $150,000 to $170,000 award
 Competitive Grant
 • Up to $125,000 per round
 Additional programing opportunities
 through MassCEC for municipality,
 businesses, and residents




Projects Eligible for
Green Communities Competitive Funding
• Energy Conservation
  Measures
  • Weatherization
  • Insulation
• HVAC Equipment
• Lighting and Building
  Controls
• EV Charging and Vehicles
• Technical support and
  Training




   Additional Programs Unlocked by
   Renewable Energy Trust
   • Building Electrification and
     Transformation Accelerator
     (BETA):Roadmaps
      • Non-profits, Public entities
   • Mass Fleet Advisor
                                                      ,~c~
                                                      =  MASSACHUSETTS
                                                         CLEAN ENERGY
      • Commercial, Non-profits, Public               ~~ CENTER•
        entities
   • Vehicle-to-Everything
     Demonstration Projects
      • Residents, Commercial, Public
        entities

                                        Adda footer




                                                                         13/16
Green Communities Next Steps
    Items Underway:
    • ZEV First Procurement Policy
       • Awaiting review and consideration by Select Board
    • Municipal Energy Reduction Plan
       • PowerOptions developing plan
       • Completing MassEnergylnsight Building Inventory


                                                                Massachusetts
                                                             DEPARTMENT
                                                                   OFENERGY
                                                                         RESOURCES
    Light Commission must adopt REC prior to
    applying
    Application Deadline - December 2025




Project Example: Article 33 - Mary Alley HVAC
• $6.26 Million - Debt exclusion override
  request
• Scope of Work
      Removal of existing Natural Gas heating
      system, replace with Air-source Heat Pump
      HVACsystem
•     Installation of ventilation system
•     Replace Roof, add 5" of insulation,
      weatherization
•     ADA Upgrades: Elevator, Bathrooms, Access
•     New Sprinkler and Fire Alarm System
•     Removal of abandoned equipment
•     Asbestos abatement and removal




Project Example: Article 33 - Mary Alley HVAC
• $6.26 Million - Debt exclusion override
  request
• Scope of Work
      Removal of existing Natural Gas heating
      system, replace with Air-source Heat Pump
      HVAC system
•     Installation of ventilation system
•     Replace Roof, add 5" of insulation,
      weatherization
•     ADA Upgrades: Elevator, Bathrooms, Access
•     New Sprinkler and Fire Alarm System
•     Removal of abandoned equipment
•     Asbestos abatement and removal




                                                                                     14/16
Municipal Fleet Snapshot
• Vehicle Inventory: 153 Vehicles
• Average Vehicle Age: 2012, 13 Years
Light Duty (<8,500 lbs)
   • 49 Vehicles
   • Average MPG: 25 Combined (without EVs,
     21)
   • U.S. Average MPG: 26.9 Combined
Medium/Heavy Duty (>8,500 lbs)
   • 104 Vehicles                                 Photo Credit: Sustainable Marblehead
   • Includes DPW, Water & Sewer, Schools,
     Light, Fire

                                                                                              12




Zero-Emission Vehicle (ZEV) First Procurement Policy
                                 • Electric-First Commitment (Light duty):
                                    • Starting FY27, all light-duty municiP.al vehicles must
                                      consider Battery Electric Vehicles (BEVs) wherever feasible
                                    • Exemptions for emergency vehicles, heavy duty, and off­
                                      road. Light-duty exemptions require approval
                                 • Supports Town's Climate Goals:
                                      Advances Marblehead's Net Zero by 2040 target
                                    • Meets Green Communities Program standards
                                    • Completes goal of 2023 Net Zero Roadmap
                                 • Fleet Efficiency Standards:
                                      Requires fuel-efficient vehicle replacements
                                    • Reducing/optimizing fleet size where possible
                                    • Enforce anti-idling and responsible driving practices
                                 • Transition Plan & Funding:
                                      By FY27, the Town will complete a fleet transition plan
                                      Sustainability Coordinator and Departments should jointly
                                      pursue grants and plan for EV-related capital investments


                                                                                              "




                                                                                                    15/16
Grading Rubric

1. Public Utilities Experience
    Score
             Minimal or no direct experience in public utilities. May have worked in adjacent sectors (e.g., private energy, infrastructure) but lacks
        1    familiarity with municipal utilities or regulated environments.
             Moderate experience in public utilities or similar regulated industries. Has held leadership roles in utilities or energy-adjacent sectors but
             not at an executive level in a municipal setting. Demonstrates some understanding of community-owned utilities or public power
        2    structures.
             Extensive experience in public utilities, preferably in a municipal or community-owned electric utility. Has held senior leadership or general
             manager roles in such settings. Demonstrated understanding of regulatory compliance, rate sening, public accountability, and board
        3    relationships.




2. Technical Knowledge
    Score
             Limited technical background. May have unrelated educational background or lack of familiarity with energy systems, engineering, or grid
        1    operations.
             Moderate technical knowledge. Holds a degree in engineering or technical field or has equivalent analytical skills. Some experience with
        2    electric system operations, power portfolio management, or renewable energy technologies.
             Strong technical grounding. Holds an engineering or relevant technical degree, ideally with a master's in a related field. Demonstrated
             expertise in system management, grid modernization, decarbonization strategies, and power portfolio optimization. Can discusstechnical
        3    aspects of operations with authority.


3. Proven Leadership (Strategic+ Tactical+ People Management)
    Score
             Little leadership experience. Has not managed large teams or complex projects. Limited evidence of strategic planning or labor relations
        1    skills.
             Has led teams or departments, likely at a mid-management level. Some experience balancing short- and long-term strategic priorities.
        2    Moderate involvement in labor relations or team development.
             Demonstrated senior leadership success, preferably as GM, CEO,or senior executive in a similar organization. Proven record of strategic
             visioning and tactical execution, Experienced in labor negotiations, successionplanning, and building high-performing teams in a mission-
        3    driven environment.


4. Demonstrated Execution (Delivery of Results and Operational Effectiveness)
Score
             Limited record of follow-through on operational goals. Few concrete outcomes or projects led to completion. Minimal experience
        1    managing budgets or capital projects.
             Some track record of delivering results in operations, budgeting, or system upgrades. Evidence of follow-through on projects and
        2    stakeholder engagement, but may lack scale or complexity.
             Strong record of executing complex initiatives successfully-e.g., infrastructure modernization, financial turnaround, or regulatory
        3    compliance programs. Demonstrated ability to manage risk, meet strategic goals, and lead effective, efficient operations over time.




                                                                   ----****----




                                                                                                                                                      16/16
