Light Commission Sept 24, 2025, Public Session Minutes
To:               Light Commission: Commissioners
                  General Manager
From:             Matt Harrington
Date:             November 20, 2025



A quorum being present, Chair Yarmoff brought the meeting to order at 1:03 pm. The meeting was held
virtually.

Participated in meeting:
     Commissioners:            Commissioners Frechette, Harrington, Smith and Yarmoff all participated virtually.
                               Commissioner Hull was absent from this meeting

Marblehead Land Acknowledgment skipped due to remote meeting.

Comments from the Public
No Public Comment

Public Session Minutes
Motion moved by Chair Yarmoff to convene in Executive Session to conduct strategy sessions in
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel, and return to public session afterwards,
seconded by Frechette. The plan was to return to public session at 1:30PM

•     Roll Call Vote: Frechette: Yes, Harrington: Yes, Smith: Yes, Yarmoff: Yes

The executive session ended at 2:21 pm after a roll call affirmative vote of all participants.

Return to Public Session
Return at 2:21PM
   • Yarmoff reports that the contract of General Manager Joe Kowalik will be terminated as planned
        on Friday and that the new General Manager, Jon Blair, will start as planned on Monday.
   • Leigh Blander said that she read the contract and asked about extending Joe Kowalik’s contract
        with Amendment #3, and if we voted on amounts.
            o Yarmoff said that when we voted on Amendment #3, it was to add to the original
                contract, and we were not renewing the original contract or extending it. Amendment 3
                was provided as an enticement to keep the General Manager from leaving early while
                the board worked to find a replacement, by offering a payment equal to the amount if
                we terminated early. Since we did find a replacement, we will follow the contract. In the
                town of Reading, something similar happened without an “amendment #3”: the General
                Manager there left immediately. This was a situation the board was trying to avoid.

Frechette Proposes a Motion to adjourn seconded by Smith
• Roll Call Vote: Frechette: Yes, Harrington: Yes, Smith: Yes, Yarmoff: Yes


Meeting adjourned at 2:26 PM

                                                                                                        1/1
