Light Commission July 14, 2025 Meeting Minutes
To:             Light Commission: Commissioners
                Light Department: J. Kowalik, General Manager
From:           Matt Harrington
Date:           July 14, 2025



A quorum being present, Chair Yarmoff brought the meeting to order at 4:01 pm. The meeting was held
in person at Abbott Hall and with remote internet access, both available to public participation. A
recording of the meeting is made available to the public at the following link.

Participated in meeting:
     Commissioners:         Commissioners Frechette, Hull, Harrington, and Yarmoff all participated in person.
                            Commissioner Smith participated via Zoom.
      Light Department:     General Manager, J. Kowalik.

Marblehead Land Acknowledgment declaration was read by Commissioner Frechette.

Comments from the Public
Andrew Ibarra via Zoom - Asked the commission who was being interviewed for the GM position in
Marblehead. Commissioner Yarmoff responded with the names of the 3 finalists: Mary Usovicz, Jon Blair,
and Nathan Mitchell. No follow-up questions or comments were issued by Mr. Ibarra.

Albert Jordan, in person - Asked the commission if any of the candidates for the GM position lived locally
and mentioned the importance of candidates from our area. Commissioner Yarmoff responded that 2 of
the 3 finalists currently live on the North Shore (Salem and Gloucester) and 1 lives in Virginia. No follow-
up questions or comments were issued by Mr. Jordan.

GM Candidate Interviews
Candidate: Jon Blair, resume attached
   • Standard questions (See attached) were asked by commissioners. See recording for responses.
   • Interview concluded at 4:47 at which point the candidate was informed that the Commission
       would vote on the candidates in public session on July 22, 2025.
Candidate: Nathan Mitchell, resume attached
   • Standard questions (See attached) were asked by commissioners. See recording for responses.
   • Interview concluded at 5:15 at which point the candidate was informed that the Commission
       would vote on the candidates in public session on July 22, 2025.

The motion to adjourn was moved by Commissioner Yarmoff, seconded by Commissioner Frechette
Votes: Simon Frechette: Yes; Matt Harrington: Yes; Mike Hull: Yes; Adam Smith, Yes; Jean-Jacques
Yarmoff: Yes;

                                                ----****----




                                                                                                       1/7
       Resumes of candidates interviewed during the July 14, 2025 Light Commission Meeting


                              ~an                        W. Blair, MBA
                MA            -                               m,jwblairl00

                                               Professional Experience
Senior Managing Consultant
   Energy and Environmental       Economics (E3); Boston, MA                                               2023 - Present

   •    Lead project teams advising utility, government, and corporate clients across North America on
        integrated systems planning topics including rate design, resource valuation, and development           of
        strategic road maps for decarbonization     and grid modernization

   •    Support the United States Department of Energy in reviewing federal grant applications for Climate
        Pollution Reduction Grants, resulting in the awarding of over $500M in project funding in 2024

   •    Perform site review for battery energy storage developments,         assessing utility costs and benefits specific
        to existing and proposed locations, resulting in over $200K of annual utility costs savings for client

   •    Develop and deliver recommendations        to diverse audiences, including governing boards, industry
        executives, legislators, and advocate groups; support comprehensive         engagement efforts to educate and
        build consensus among diverse coalition of stakeholders


General Manager
   Ipswich Electric Light Department;      Ipswich, MA                                                        2017-2023

   •    Expertly led public electric utility with direct responsibility for over $20M in annual operating budget, 21
        staff members, 3 substations, 100+ miles of distribution     and sub-transmission     circuits, and 10 megawatts
        of local generation, including wind, solar, and combustion engine resources

   •    Procured reliable, affordable power for over 7,000 utility customers by identifying, negotiating, and
        executing power supply contracts, including solar, wind, hydroelectric,       and storage technologies; reduced
        carbon-intensity   of the power portfolio by half, over a 5-year period, earning recognition as a Sustainable
        Energy Provider by the American Public Power Association in 2022

   •    Secured >$SM in third-party      funding to develop strategic programs and infrastructure      in cooperation with
        federal agencies, including US Departments of Energy and Agriculture,         as well as local industry partners,
        including the Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company, Metropolitan             Area Planning Council,
        Clean Energy Center, and Departments of Energy Resources and Environmental Protection

   •    Assertively engaged new climate goals and emerging market opportunities           with innovative programs to
        support local electrification,   including the development   and implementation     of "Resource," a first-in­
        state decarbonization     program providing customers with comprehensive        energy audits, targeted
        incentives, and unique financing opportunities

   •    Established strategic vision and led measurable progress toward specific goals, including the creation of
        restricted funds for future investments in developing carbon-free generation and energy storage, as well
        as providing for the eventual decommissioning      of legacy resources; led projects to integrate advanced
        metering, expand power grid infrastructure,      and evaluate cost-of-service and rate design, earning the
        Francis King Leadership Award from the Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company in 2019




                                                                                                                         2/7
             Manager (Interim Business Manager, Interim General Manager)
    Ipswich Electric Light Department;       Ipswich, MA                                                             2016- 2017

    ■    Improved workflows,      established internal controls, and built resiliency, earning national recognition         as a
         Reliable Public Power Provider from American Public Power Association for operational                excellence in the
         areas of safety, reliability, compliance, workforce       development,    and system improvement

    •    Increased ancillary service revenues by over 200% by negotiating            new and existing leases to cable
         television, fiber optic, and SG communication        providers

    ■    Collaborated with stakeholders in the local community            to provide technical assistance and evaluation of
         energy performance,      contributing   to municipality   earning formal designation as a "Green Community"


Submarine Officer
    United States Navy; New London, CT & Boston, MA                                                                  2009-2016

    ■    Demonstrated     strong technical aptitude in directing the operation,        testing, and maintenance      of shipboard
         nuclear power plant, including reactor dynamics, steam plant controls, and electrical distribution,              earning
         recognition   as the Submarine Junior Officer of the Year in 2013

         Developed and led high-performing         teams in missions critical to national security while forward deployed
         onboard USS DALLAS, earning Battle Efficiency award as most effective ship in the squadron for 2013

                                                           Education
Master of BusinessAdministration - Sustainability
    Boston University; Boston, MA                                                                                            2016

Bachelor of Science - Nuclear Engineering
    Purdue University; West Lafayette, IN                                                                                    2009

                                                  Professional Affiliations
Board of Directors - Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company                                              2022 - 2023
Treasurer, Board of Directors - Northeast Public Power Association                                                   2020-2023
Climate Resiliency Committee -Town          of Ipswich                                                               2020-2023
Project Participants Board - Master Sergeant Cotton Solar Array                                                      2020-2023
Board of Directors - Berkshire Wind Cooperative                                                                      2019- 2023


                                                         Publications
Muspratt, A., & Blair, J. (2023). Accelerating Building Decarbonization         with Tariffed On-Bill Financing. Northeast
Sustainable Energy Association BuildingEnergy Boston Conference.
https://nesea .org/session/accelerating-b uild i ng-deca rbo nizatio n-tariffed-bill-fi   na nci ng


M uspratt, A., & Blair, J. (2022). Utility Led Acceleration of Residential Efficiency & Electrification Retrofits -A
Feasibility Study of Tariffed On-Bill Financing in Ipswich, Massachusetts. Center for EcoTechnology.
https ://www. cente rforecotech no logy. org/uti Iity-led-a cceleration-of-reside ntia 1-efficiency-e lectrification-retrofits/




J. Blair Resume
                                                                                                                                    2


                                                                                                                                    3/7
                                 Nathan Mitchell, P.E.
Profile: Electrical engineer with over 30 years of experience in the electricity sector with
technical and managerial capabilities. Expertise in federal grant management, electric industry
federal policy, cyber and physical security, electric utility regulation, NERC standards, electric
reliability, utility operations, worker safety, electric distribution design, and construction.
Objective: Use my experience in a collaborative environment to advance the societal benefits of
safe, reliable, and cost-effective energy delivery.
Experience
MPR Associates Inc. (MPR) -April 2022 - Present
Cybersecurity Assessments for Rural and Municipal Utilities
Project manager for DOE-ACT 1 Cybersecurity Technical Assistance Program performing
cybersecurity assessments of rural and municipal utilities. The assessments included reviews of
cybersecurity technology, network architecture, governance, and organizational structure.
Identify risks and provide a cybersecurity roadmap for implementation of recommendations.
Risk Analysis of BESS Tolling Agreements
Provide technical expertise to identify risks within Battery Energy Storage System (BESS)
Tolling Agreements. Develop mitigation strategies to ensure system availability, a robust
measurement and validation process, and calculation examples for liquidated damages.
Aligning Rate Design with Grid-edge Technology Guideline
Provide project management and technical expertise to develop and publish a rate design
guideline for public power utilities. Presented the findings and case studies at public power
conferences.
BESS Use Case Study and Transmission Capacity Analysis
Provide technical expertise for a use case study in coordination with a BESS developer to
support a DOE-GRIP grant application. Conducted a transmission thermal capacity analysis for
the siting of BESS on a Midwest cooperative utility transmission system to determine hosting
capacity and recommendations for system deployment.
DoD Microgrid Readiness Assessment
Provide subject matter expertise to plan, facilitate, and assess mission capability under the DoD
energy resilience readiness exercises at US Air Force bases. Collaborate with base engineers
to assess the impact of loss of utility power and provide recommendations for addressing
vulnerabilities in the energy infrastructure discovered during the exercise.
Transmission Substation Risk Analysis
Lead technical consultant, assessing the vulnerabilities and risk reduction recommendations for
a key transmission substation of a large California utility. Quantify the impacts for load at risk
and estimate restoration times based on high-impact scenarios. Provide mitigation
recommendations for the utility's senior leadership.




                                                                                                     4/7
American Public Power Association (APPA) - January 2006 - March 2022
Senior Director of Operations Programs, APPA - June 2020 - March 2022
Principal Investigator for federal grants at a major Washington DC trade association.
Successfully proposed and awarded over $2 Million in Department of Energy (DOE) grants to
develop guidance materials and help public power utilities manage the energy transition to low­
emission resources. Led a team of technical specialists on APPA Smart Energy Provider (SEP)
and Reliable Public Power Provider (RP3) designation programs. Also, led the oversight,
business development and maintenance of a utility reliability tracking software service,
eReliability Tracker used by over 500 public power utilities.
Senior Director of Cyber and Physical Security Services, APPA - June 2016 - June 2020
Principle investigator of a 4-year, $7.5 million DOE grant to develop a cybersecurity program for
public power utilities. Successfully published the Public Power Cybersecurity Roadmap, Public
Power Cyber Incident Response Playbook, Managed Cybersecurity Service Providers Guide,
and several other resources. Hundreds of utilities around the world have downloaded these
open-source tools. Also, developed a simplified cybersecurity self-assessment tool, the
Cybersecurity Scorecard, commercialized into the Axio360 for Public Power.
Successfully proposed and awarded a 3-year, $6 million DOE cooperative agreement for
deployment of operational technology cybersecurity solutions at public power utilities.
Senior Director of Electric Reliability, Standards and Security, APPA- January 2014-
June 2016
Led an APPA membership-wide strategic initiative on cyber and physical security which includes
developing resources, engaging with members, along with educating Congress, regulators, and
other federal partners.
Coordinate utility involvement in industry cyber and physical security working groups such as
the CEO- led Electricity Sector Coordinating Council (ESCC), the North American Electric
Reliability Corporations (NERC) Critical Infrastructure Protection Committee (CIPC), and the
NERC CIP reliability standard drafting team. Provide technical support to utility leaders serving
the ESCC. Manage the ESCC secretariat duties assigned to APPA. Advise APPA CEO and
utility CEOs on grid security issues.
Worked with the NERC Electricity Information Sharing and Analysis Center (E-ISAC) to
continually improve the industry threat information sharing.
Director of Electric Reliability Standards and Compliance, APPA- January 2011 -
January 2014
Provide technical leadership within the electricity industry by supporting the NERC efforts to
ensure reliable bulk power system operations. Develop grid security resources by engaging
municipal utilities and other industry subject matter experts in collaborative working groups on
the NERC (CIPC).
Coordinate utility participation in standard drafting and revisions on projects such as the NERC
CIP Version 4 & 5. Lead discussions and develop consensus comments on NERC standards.
Provide technical expertise and coordinated comments on Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission (FERG) Notice of Proposed Rule Making and Final Rules. Provide NERC
compliance resources by creating webinars, leading collaborative discussions, and
communicating best practices at conference sessions. Provide technical expertise on proposed
reliability and grid security legislation. Testified at a FERG technical conference on public power
cybersecu rity.




                                                                                                      5/7
Support government-led initiatives to develop cyber risk management tools and cyber security
measures. Develop working relationships with key federal government officials within The White
House, DOE, Department of Homeland Security (OHS), and FERC. Participated in the industry
advisory committee of the White House/DOE Electricity Sector Cybersecurity Capabilities
Maturity Model (ES-C2M2).
Director of Engineering and Operations Services, APPA - January 2006 - January 2011
Facilitate the exchange of utility best practices at APPA's Engineering and Operations
conferences. Develop guidebooks to provide the latest reliability tools to member utilities.
lncentivize reliable utility operations through APPA's Reliable Public Power Provider (RP3)
awards program. Guide utilities on topics of reliability, safety, workforce development, and
system improvement. Represent APPA members on the IEEE National Electrical Safety Code
(NESC) Main Committee. Track industry standards through meetings with NERC, OSHA,
NESC, and other trade associations.
Manager, Electric Distribution, City of Naperville - December 1995 - December 2005
Progressive responsibility in utility engineering and operations management. Manager of
Electric Distribution Operations and Construction leading line crews and construction contracts,
Senior Electrical Engineer for Distribution Design developing one of the first municipal smart grid
installations, Electrical Engineer, and construction coordinator for a major 138kV transmission
line relocation.
Transmission and Distribution Line Design, 1991-1995
Designed transmission and distribution line projects for major electric utilities.
Education
• Graduate Leadership Certificate - North Central College, Illinois 2003
• Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering - Iowa State University 1989
License
Active Registration as a Professional Engineer in the State of Illinois since 1998
Industry Publications:
• Aligning Utility Rates Design with Grid-Edge Technology 2024
• Public Power Cybersecurity Roadmap - 2019
• Public Power Cyber Incident Response Playbook - 2019
• Managed Cybersecurity Service Providers Guide - 2017
• Electricity Sector Handbook on OHS Private Sector Clearance Program - 2014
• NERC Personnel Security Clearance Task Force Report - 2013
Industry Committees:
• Vice Chair of NERC CIPC - 2012 to 2017
• Chair of the NERC CIPC Policy Subcommittee - 2013 to 2016


Contact Information:
Nathan Mitchell




                                                                                                      6/7
                                 TOWN OF MARBLEHEAD
                                 INTERVIEW QUESTIONS
                          Marblehead Municipal LightCommission

Jean-Jacques Yarmoff:
   1.   Please introduce yourself and give us an overview of the career experiences
       that most directly prepare you to run a municipal electric light plant.
   2.   What specific aspects of MMLD's mission, size, or community appeal to you,
       and how would they influence your first-year priorities?
   3.   Which two achievements in your past roles best illustrate the results you could
       replicate in Marblehead?

Mike Hull:
   4.  When you consider the skills and experience necessary to run MMLD, where
       are your biggest gaps relative to these needs?
   5.  Describe what your approach would be to budgeting, capital planning, and rate
       design.
   6.  How would you ensure compliance with state and federal regulations-as well
       as evolving clean-energy mandates.

Matt Harrington:
  7. How would you balance achieving long-term goals while ensuring that near-term
      operational and other critical issues are effectively managed?
  8. Describe a time you disagreed with a board directive and how you ultimately
       executed the final decision.

Adam Smith:
  9.  What would be your philosophy for collaborating with the union and how
      would you go about building trust?
  10. Describe the most serious outage or crisis you've managed through.

Simon Frechette
   11. What would you do to ensure that MMLD is an organization with strong
       retention and high employee satisfaction?
   12. What specific programs or leading indicators would you use to strengthen a
       safety-first culture?




                                     ----****----




                                                                                          7/7
