Light Commission May 19, 2025 meeting minutes
To:            Light Commission: Commissioners
               Light Department: J. Kowalik, General Manager
From:          Adam Smith
Date:          June 2, 2025


A quorum being present, Chair Yarmoff brought the meeting to order at 4 pm. The meeting was
held in person and with remote internet access, both available to public participation. A
recording of the meeting is made available to the public at the following link.
Participated in meeting:
Commissioners:       Commissioners Frechette, Hull, Smith, and Yarmoff all participated in person.
Light Department:    General Manager, J. Kowalik. Chris Dunbar IS&T Manager

The Land Acknowledgement was read by Commissioner Frechette.


Comments from the Public
There were no comments from the public, whether in person or from remote participants.

Process for the selection of the next General Manager

The Job Description has been posted with application instructions on six different sites since
May 2nd and will remain open until May 26, 5 pm. Eventually, the Commission will interview
three leading candidates in a public meeting.

The Open Meeting Law (OML) specifies critical steps of this process. KP Law attorney Joe Fair
also clarified the process that must be followed, as follows
        - any action taken by the full Commission needs to be in open session;
        - a subcommittee of the commission created to select candidates can meet in
             executive session to screen resumes and interview candidates, as long as
             commissioners do not represent a quorum of that subcommittee. If the subcommittee
             is composed of 5 members, only two commissioners can participate;
        - the subcommittee can only recommend candidates for the commission to interview, it
             cannot make a choice itself.
While the subcommittee of the commission can meet in executive session, that executive
session of the commission, as usual, needs to start as a posted meeting open to the public
during which the chair specifically invokes exemption 8 to the Open Meeting Law.

Having received a large number of applications (well over 50), it is necessary to narrow down
the number of applicants to be interviewed in public sessions, and for the Marblehead Light
Commission to create a selection subcommittee: see slides pages 4-5.




                                                                                                 1/8
The chair proposed that the Selection Subcommittee of the Light Commission be composed of:
      Simon Frechette, Commissioner
      Adam Smith, Commissioner
      Alexa Singer, Marblehead Select Board Member
      Greg Chane, MMLD Distribution Manager
      Tom Howard, Marblehead HR Director

Vote #2025-13         A motion to create a Selection Sub-Committee of the Light Commission,
                      as described above, charged with selecting three candidates for interview
                      by the Light Commission, was moved by Commissioner Frechette and
                      seconded by Commissioner Hull.                     Unanimous.


Process for Evaluation of the General Manager

Chair Yarmoff proposed a process for the evaluation of the General Manager, which is a slightly
streamlined version of the process previously approved. Some key changes are:
            ○ Clarified timeline and procedures,
            ○ Evaluations are anonymized and compiled into a summary for public discussion.
The version appended to these notes (page 8) was edited after the meeting to show “approved”
following the vote #2025-14 below.

Vote #2025-14         Motion to amend General Manager Evaluation process as presented was
                      moved by Commissioner Smith and seconded by Commissioner
                      Frechette.                                     Unanimous.


MIT Sloan Sustainability Lab Presentation

As in previous years, the Commission has worked with the MIT Sloan School and proposed a
project for them to work on. The focus this year was on developing a simple methodology to
evaluate and prioritize different projects on key metrics beyond financials and including metrics
such as reliability, equity for low-income residents or the project impact on emissions.

Presenter Solangel Fernandez (MIT Sloan Fellow) was invited to the meeting and presented the
results of her project. Interested readers are invited to refer to the recording of this meeting.

   ●   Tool introduced: GreenBridge, an AI-based policy evaluation model
   ●   Use case: Comparing Time-of-Use (TOU) rates vs Solar Feed-in Tariff (FIT)
   ●   Key features:
          ○ Multi-criteria analysis (cost, emissions, equity, adoption)
          ○ Scenario modeling, stakeholder mapping, implementation guidance
          ○ Results suggested a hybrid approach (start with TOU, evolve to FIT)




                                                                                               2/8
General Manager Updates

Village 13 Project

   ●   Switchgear arrival targeted for week of July 15
   ●   Final testing of the switchgear will take place at manufacturer’s, with MMLD team to
       observe the final release
   ●   Energization goal: December 2025
   ●   Construction sequencing was updated (Schedule 6)
   ●   Right-of-way access and July 4 holiday constraints discussed


IT & Infrastructure Updates

Presented by Chris Dunbar IS&T Manager, see slides pages 6-7.

   ●   AMI fiber and SEL switch upgrades
   ●   GIS system redevelopment using SQL-based alternative to ESRI
   ●   Substation monitoring pilot at 80 Commercial Street
   ●   Engineering control upgrades for Wilkins
   ●   Risk modeling for diesel tank replacement


Internship & Staffing
    ● Staff additions (see page 7):
          ○ Jose Acosta (Fleet Maintenance Specialist)
          ○ New substation/operations hire with USCG background
          ○ Michael Hall (Energy Efficiency & Marketing Manager)
    ● Engineering Project Manager position under consideration

Commissioner Hull left before the Cybersecurity discussion at approximately 5:30

Cybersecurity Discussion
   ● Discussion of upcoming cybersecurity concerns and relevant Open Meeting Law
      exemptions
   ● Reference to Littleton Electric’s experience with Volt Typhoon cyberattack
   ● Plans to discuss cybersecurity further at a later date (possible June Executive Session)


It was decided not to enter into Executive Session in view of the absence of one commissioner.


Motion to adjourn at 5:57 seconded by Smith, unanimous.


                                           ----****----




                                                                                              3/8
Documents shown during the May 19, 2025 Light Commission Meeting




                                                                   4/8
5/8
6/8
7/8
----****----
               8/8
