Light Commission Sept 9, 2025 Open Meeting Minutes
To:             Light Commission: Commissioners
                Light Department: General Manager
From:           Matt Harrington
Date:           October 28, 2025



A quorum being present, Chair Yarmoff brought the meeting to order at 4:04 pm. The meeting was held in
person at MMLD HQ and with remote internet access, both available to public participation. A recording of
the meeting is made available to the public at the following link.

Participated in meeting:
     Commissioners:           Commissioners Frechette, Hull, Harrington, Smith, and Yarmoff participated in
                              person.
      Light Department:       General Manager, Joe Kowalik
      Town Charter Committee: Amy Drinker, Sean Casey
      Public:                 Jon Blair

Marblehead Land Acknowledgment declaration was read by Commissioner Frechette.

Comments from the Public
   • Resident from Lincoln Ave curious about sound meters and work being done. General Manager
     Kowalik responded that the MMLD received this land from the school department and MMLD is
     exploring what can be done with the land. One option is utility battery system, and they are
     making sure it won’t create too much noise. MMLD is establishing a base line of noise to
     compare the potential noise of the new system. Resident wondered if it is approved and a go, JK
     says it is in a pre-planning phase now.

Motion by the Chair to modify agenda
       There are no minutes to approve. Prior to approving and signing the contract for the new
       General Manager, the Board needs to give notice to the current General Manager. The Board
       also supports a smooth transition. These points are added to the agenda, and Chair Yarmoff
       moved a motion to modify the agenda as shown on slide p 5. Seconded by Frechette.
       VOTE 2025-24: Agenda modification approved unanimously.


Town Charter
      - Amy Drinker
             o Charter committee working since 2024 to put together first town charter in the
               history of Marblehead.
             o Goal of charter is to explain how the town works regarding different elected
               positions, committees, etc. It gives an idea on how the town works and can always
               be amended at Town Meeting. It is based on how we currently do business in our
               town, not on how other towns do their business.


                                                                                                  1/23
          o   Goal is to submit the baseline charter to the Selectboard by Jan 2026 to be on the
              2026 town meeting agenda.
          o   Charter will often say that the law sets responsibilities, not the charter.
          o   Sec 3: clarifying that the board’s concern on Sec 3 is about “Laws of the town”
          o   Will summarize concerns of the Board and run them by counsel for advice.
-   JJY
          o   Stating that the MMLD commission is mostly independent from the rest of the
              town. Our current set up is unique to how we operate and important that this is
              maintained.
          o   Walks through each clause on the attached document for discussion
          o   Suggesting that Composition sec 2 should be a board responsibility, and not a
              charter section.
          o   Sec 3: should “Laws of town” be included here? How do we enshrine the 5-member
              board is independent from the selectboard.

-   Sean Casey
        o Charter is meant to be high level.
        o Worked hard to not change anything for the MMLD commission. There is nothing
            that overrides our current abilities or MA law.
        o Suggests that Town council help with the concerns on Sec 2.
        o Sec 3: Light board only shows up in town law 3 times. Laws of the commonwealth
            overrule laws of the town, if there is something in Ch 164 that prevents the town
            from imposing a law that impacts the MMLD, 164 would overrule it. By taking out
            “Laws of the town” it doesn’t impact our concerns.
        o Sec 4 attempts to make it so that other departments do not encroach on the MMLD
            responsibilities.
        o Secs 3 and 4 are meant to create our independence not to encroach.
        o Sec 10 is designed to make sure that other govt bodies can tell other bodies what to
            do.
-   Hull
        o Wants to clarify that we are a “Board” by sec 164 not a commission. Charter
            committee acknowledges that they can make this update.
-   Joe Kowalik
        o Sec 3: concerned that the wrong interpretation of the town law could lead to other
            town committees looking towards MMLD depreciation accounts for funding.
        o Raised a concern about the right of ways on the rail trail, should our right of way
            and land ownership by included in Sec 4.
        o In sec 4 board does not have “direct” responsibility, this should be adjusted.
-   Harrington
        o Concerned with specificity on #4 that might not include everything.
-   Frechette
        o Specified that we have concerns with “laws of the town” in most instances.
        o Questions in Sec 10 that it mentions “town government under our authority” as
            there is no government body beneath the board.



                                                                                              2/23
Notice to General Manager Joe Kowalik
Prior to appointing Jon Blair as next General Manager of MMLD, the Board needs to officially serve a
notice of termination to Joe Kowalik.
A motion to empower the Light Board Chair or Vice-Chair to send a letter to Joe Kowalik by or before
September 28, 2025, to terminate his employment contract signed June 8, 2021, was moved by Chair
Yarmoff and Seconded by Frechette.
Discussion:
         - Hull is concerned about a letter received from Joe Kowalik regarding Amendment 3 to his
             employment contract.
         - JJY has exchanged with MMLD Counsel Joe Fair from KP Law, who has reaffirmed the
             Board’s stance.
         - Hull spoke with an attorney and reports that he thinks Amendment 3 is ambiguous.
         - Smith read Amendment 3 to indicate that it is not ambiguous.
         - Hull concerned that the intent when signed was to keep Joe until April. Smith, JJY, Frechette
             indicate that the intent was to provide options when Hull had feared that the General
             Manager might leave early to search for other employment, as was his right per contract.
Vote 2025-25: Frechette Yes, Harrington Yes, Hull No, Smith Yes, Yarmoff Yes.

Signature of new General Manager Jon Blair Employment Contract
    • Contract documents circulated for signature. Contract is annexed to the minutes (pp 16-23).
    • Commissioners Frechette, Harrington, Smith and Yarmoff signed, Hull refused to sign.

Board Support for a smooth Transition
   • Statement by JJY on behalf of the board to support a smooth transition, recognizing the limits
       set on the board by MGL Chapter 164: See below for statement (page 12).
   • To facilitate this transition, the Board will consider favorably a possible request by Joe Kowalik
       to modify the timing of the severance payment that comes with exercising Clause III B in the
       current General Manager’s contract. If the parties agree, this will mean an amendment to the
       contract to modify the timing of this severance payment.

The Chair moved a motion to empower the Light Board Chair or Vice-Chair to execute an Amendment to
Joe Kowalik’s contract whereby the severance payment is paid by MMLD to Joe Kowalik in one or
several installments by or before January 16, 2026. Seconded by Frechette
Vote 2025-26: Unanimous Yes.

AOB/Acknowledgment
      - JJY thanks JK for his service in the town and recognizes his accomplishments.
      - Smith presents a photo of JK receiving a NEPPA award as a thank you.

A motion to adjourn was moved by Commissioner Hull, seconded by Commissioner Frechette.
Unanimous Yes Vote. The meeting concluded at 5:26 pm.




                                                                                                    3/23
                                     ----****----

 Documents showed during the Sept 9th meeting are reproduced in the following pages.




                           MMLD Board Meeting
                            September 9, 2025




              Agenda
4:00 Call to Order
4:05 Public Comments
     Meeting minutes
     Town Charter
     General Manager Employment Contract: signature
     AOB
     Adjourn




                                                                                       4/23
            Agenda
4:00 Call to Order
4:05 Public Comments
     Meeting minutes
     Town Charter
     General Manager Employment Contract: signature
     AOB
     Adjourn




            Amendment to the Agenda
4:00 Call to Order
4:05 Public Comments
     Meeting minutes
     Town Charter
     Notice to General Manager Joe Kowalik
     Jon Blair General Manager Employment Contract: signature
     Board support for a smooth transition
     Amendment 4 to Joe Kowalik’s contract
     AOB
     Adjourn




                                                                5/23
                Town Charter
• Town Charter Committee members:
  – Amy Drinker
  – Sean Casey
• Work of Committee, Process
• Review of language
  – Article 6: Elected Boards, Committees, Commissions and Officials
     • Section 6.6: Municipal Light Commission
         – Composition
         – Powers, Duties and Responsibilities
         – Appointing Powers
         – Policy Role




                Town Charter Section 6.6 language review

        1. There shall be a Municipal Light Commission (the Commission) consisting of five
           members elected for three-year terms, so arranged that as nearly an equal number
           of terms as possible shall expire each year.
        This text is unchanged from previous drafts reviewed by the committee.

        This language is similar to the proposed composition sections of the Select Board and other elected bodies.
        Language is identical to/similar to language in the charters of Harvard, Groton, Longview, and Swampscott.

        2. A Municipal Light Commissioner shall not hold another position of the town under
           direct Commission control or responsibility that is compensated and eligible for
           employment benefits during the Commissioner's term of office.
       I This text is unchanged from previous drafts reviewed by the committee.
        This is a variation on similar language in the draft Select Board section (see Section 4.1, Sentence 2). The difference
        here is the limitation is only to those paid positions directly under Light Commission control.




                                                                                                                                  6/23
                   Section 6.6 language review 2/7
             Powers, Duties, and Responsibilities

            3. The Commission shall have the powers, duties, and responsibilities given to
               municipal light commissions under the laws of the Commonwealth and laws of the
               town.
           I This text is unchanged from previous drafts reviewed by the committee.
            There is a sentence similar to this one as the first sentence in the "Powers, Duties, and Responsibilities" subsection
            of all sections in Articles 6 (previously Article 5, elected bodies) and 7 (previously Article 6, appointed bodies), as
            well as the sections on the Town Moderator (Section 3.2) and the Select Board (Section 4.1). Its intent is to broadly
            state where these powers, duties, and responsibilities come from. Many charters have language like this; and some
            of the language in our draft sections is adapted from the town charter of Longmeadow.

            4. The Commission shall have direct responsibility for the Marblehead Municipal Light
               Department, and affiliated equipment, machinery, buildings, and facilities as
               enumerated in the laws of the Commonwealth and laws of the town.
            This text is unchanged from previous drafts reviewed by the committee.

            This sentence parallel language in the section on the Select Board (see Section 4.1, Sentence 5) and is intended to
            mark off that part of town government that comes under direct Commission control.




                   Section 6.6 language review 3/7
Power, Duties and Responsibilities                     (Continued)
       5. The Commission shall set rates for electrical power and services, subject to the laws
          of the Commonwealth and laws of the town.
      I This text is unchanged from previous drafts reviewed by the committee.
       There is no corresponding language in the other charters we have examined, but the rate structure is actually quite
       complicated, and there are general laws of the Commonwealth about municipal power organizations.

       5.5 The Commission shall review and approve an annual budget for the Marblehead
           Municipal Light Department, consistent with the laws of the Commonwealth and
           laws of the town.
       This sentence was added after the release of Draft B of the proposed town charter. It was added to highlight that
       the MMLD is funded differently than most other town departments (that is, their operating budget is not part of
       the annual town budget). A similar sentence was added to Section 6.5 (Housing Authority Board of
       Commissioners), and Section 7.8 (Harbors and Waters Board).




                                                                                                                                      7/23
                     Section 6.6 language review 4/7
Power, Duties and Responsibilities                     (Continued)

  6. The Commission shall collaborate and coordinate with other elected and appointed
     town officials in the execution of town functions to ensure efficient and consistent
     operation of town government.
  This text is unchanged from previous drafts reviewed by the committee.

  This sentence is intended to document those things where the commission will need to work with other parts of
  town government. A similar sentence appears in most of the sections in Article 6 (previously Article 5, elected
  bodies) and Article 7 (previously Article 6, appointed bodies). This sentence would cover situations such as storms
  where emergency services are coordinated across town.




                     Section 6.6 language review 5/7
              Appointing Powers
              7. The Commission shall appoint the General Manager of the Marblehead Municipal
                 Light Department, subject to the laws of the Commonwealth and laws of the town.
              This text is unchanged from previous drafts reviewed by the committee.

              This sentence is similar to those showing up in other elected bodies that oversee a "department" in Article 6
              (previously S). This sentence in other sections of this article refer to the commission/committee/board appointing
              "senior members" of their respective department {for the purposes offlexibility). Per our meeting with the MMLD
              Commissioners, state law limits the Commission's appointment authority to just the General Manager {this has not
              been independently confirmed). Therefore, the appointment power for the MML Commission is narrower in scope
              than in some other sections of this article.

              8. The Commission may, from time to time, appoint members of ad hoc advisory bodies
                 to advise on such topics related to the Commission's powers, duties, and
                 responsibilities, and for such terms as the Commission deems in the best interest of
                 the town.
            I This text is unchanged from previous drafts reviewed by the committee.




                                                                                                                                   8/23
                   Section 6.6 language review 6/7
Policy Role

       9. The Commission shall establish policies related to the generation, transmission,
          purchase, distribution, use, and sale of electric power or other services contemplated
          in MGL Chapter 164 in Marblehead.
       This sentence was modified at the suggestion of Commissioner Jean-Jacques Yarmoff. Edit added generation and
       transmission, and added reference to MGL 164

       There are a number of incentives, rebates and programs in place, in addition to an existing policy regarding safe
       and reliable electricity, generated by environmentally responsible power sources ... (from the MMLD web site).




                   Section 6.6 language review 7/7
         Policy Role             (Continued)
                     10. The Commission shall be responsible for the formulation and promulgation of policy
                         directives and guidelines to be followed by those elements of town government
                         directly under Commission authority.
                   I This text is unchanged from previous drafts reviewed by the committee.
                     This is similar to language in the Select Board's Sentence 12 (Section 4.1) and is intended to speak to the oversight
                     of those town employees directly under the Commission's control.

                     11. The Commission shall, in conjunction with other elected and appointed town
                         officials, participate in the development and promulgation of policy directives and
                         guidelines designed to ensure the efficient and consistent operation of town
                         government.
                     This text is unchanged from previous drafts reviewed by the committee.

                     This language is similar to language in the Select Board section and is intended to address those situations where a
                     town-wide policy or directive would be beneficial to the town, but not all town elements come under a single
                     entity (See Section 4.1, Sentence 13). This sentence is similar to language in the Swampscott and Groton town
                     charters.




                                                                                                                                             9/23
            Town Charter
• Town Charter Committee members:
  – Amy Drinker
  – Sean Casey
• Work of Committee, Process
• Review of language
• Next steps?




            Agenda
4:00 Call to Order
4:05 Public Comments
     Meeting minutes
     Town Charter
     Notice to General Manager Joe Kowalik
     Jon Blair General Manager Employment Contract: signature
     Board support for a smooth transition
     Amendment 4 to Joe Kowalik’s contract
     AOB
     Adjourn




                                                                10/23
            Notice to General Manager Joe Kowalik

• Board is appointing Jon Blair as General Manager
• Prior to that appointment, Board needs to serve a notice

• Motion to empower the Light Board Chair or Vice-Chair to send
  a letter to Joe Kowalik by or before September 28, 2025 to
  terminate his employment contract signed June 8, 2021




            Agenda
4:00 Call to Order
4:05 Public Comments
     Meeting minutes
     Town Charter
     Notice to General Manager Joe Kowalik
     Jon Blair General Manager Employment Contract: signature
     Board support for a smooth transition
     Amendment 4 to Joe Kowalik’s contract
     AOB
     Adjourn




                                                                11/23
            Agenda
4:00 Call to Order
4:05 Public Comments
     Meeting minutes
     Town Charter
     Notice to General Manager Joe Kowalik
     Jon Blair General Manager Employment Contract: signature
     Board support for a smooth transition
     Amendment 4 to Joe Kowalik’s contract
     AOB
     Adjourn




            Board support for a smooth transition

• Chapter 164 limits the power of the Light Board

• Joe Kowalik and Jon Blair have both expressed an interest in a
  smooth transition, discussions are on-going

• The Board welcomes and encourages these efforts




                                                                   12/23
            Agenda
4:00 Call to Order
4:05 Public Comments
     Meeting minutes
     Town Charter
     Notice to General Manager Joe Kowalik
     Jon Blair General Manager Employment Contract: signature
     Board support for a smooth transition
     Amendment 4 to Joe Kowalik’s contract
     AOB
     Adjourn




            Amendment to Joe Kowalik’s contract

• To facilitate this transition, the Board will consider favorably a
  possible request by Joe Kowalik to modify the timing of the
  severance payment that comes with exercising Clause III B. in Joe
  Kowalik’s contract. If the parties agree, this will mean an
  amendment to the contract to modify this timing.

• Motion to empower the Light Board Chair or Vice-Chair to execute
  an Amendment to Joe Kowalik’s contract whereby the severance
  payment is paid by MMLD to Joe Kowalik in one or several
  installments by or before January 16, 2026.




                                                                       13/23
            Other Business
4:00 Call to Order
4:05 Public Comments
     Meeting minutes
     Town Charter
     Notice to General Manager Joe Kowalik
     Jon Blair General Manager Employment Contract: signature
     Board support for a smooth transition
     Amendment 4 to Joe Kowalik’s contract
     AOB / Acnowledgement
     Adjourn




                                                                14/23
Marblehead Town Charter Committee: charter executive summary                                  September 8, 2025



DRAFT B (annotated) of the proposed Marblehead Town Charter is posted online as a public document:
https://marbleheadma.gov/town-charter-committee/
All documents reviewed by the Charter Committee are posted on the committee’s web page.

1. WHAT IS A TOWN CHARTER?
A charter is a legal document that establishes a town's government structure and deﬁnes the powers, roles, and
responsibilities that guide the town’s operations. It is intended to reﬂect the needs, values, and priorities of the
community. A town charter takes eJect upon approval by Marblehead voters and approval by the state legislature. The
charter may be amended or modiﬁed by future vote of Marblehead town meeting as provided by the laws of the
Commonwealth and laws of the town.

2. WHY CREATE A CHARTER FOR MARBLEHEAD?
• Marblehead has no charter to explain how its government works.
• The lack of a charter makes it hard for individuals serving on town boards/committees/commissions (especially
   those who are newly elected) to understand their responsibilities and roles and how their respective
   departments interface with other town departments and oJicials.
• Marblehead’s bylaws do not always address roles and responsibilities.

3. WHAT MARBLEHEAD’S PROPOSED CHARTER DOES:
• It crafts a Marblehead charter solely designed to serve Marblehead’s needs.
• It maintains Open Town Meeting.
• It maintains the primacy of the Select Board’s authority in its policy, operational responsibilities, and its
   discretion in the delegation of duties to the town administrator.
• It serves as a reference/resource tool for citizens—an owner’s manual—using clear language to explain
   how the town’s bylaws, regulations, special acts, and state law currently govern town functions.
• It serves as a resource for those serving on elected and appointed boards/commissions/committees;
   it clariﬁes responsibilities but does not change them.
• It includes the alignment of language across charter articles for consistency.
• It is written for clarity and to meet the requirements of a special act to establish a charter in the Commonwealth.
• If approved as a “standalone” recall article at May 2026, the charter would provide authority for the town to
  determine whether to enact future provisions for the recall of elected oJicials.
• It includes an appendix of terms to provide context and further information for Marblehead citizens.

4. WHAT MARBLEHEAD’S PROPOSED CHARTER DOES NOT DO:
• The charter does not propose any changes to current practices that are consistent with the town’s bylaws,
   regulations, specials acts, and Massachusetts General Law.
   --The charter does not change Open Town Meeting.
   --The charter does not expand the Town Administrator’s role.
• The charter does not dictate every-day operational tasks for town employees, boards/committees/commissions.
• The charter does not give or take away power from voters, town oJicials, departments,
   boards/committees/commissions.
• The Charter is not intended to resolve ﬁnancial issues with regard to the operations of town government.

(OVER)



                                                                                                                1




                                                                                                                        15/23
                                     ACREEM£NT
                               BeTWEEN
                  MARBLF.HEAOMUNICIPAL LICHT COMMISSION
                                             ANO
                                   JONATHAN W. BLAIR

       11 IIS AGRECMCNTis entered into pursuant 10Chapter 164.Section 56 of the
MassachuseusGeneralLaws by and betweenthe MarbleheadMunicipalLight Departmen1.
hereinnflercalled the '·MMLI)," acting by and through its Roordof Light Commissioners,
hereinaftercalled "Commission"und Jonathan Blair. hereinaftercalled "General Manager''.

       WHEREAS.the r.L\1.1..0
                           desires to employ the services of Jonathan Blair as General
\,fanagerof the MMLD:

       WHEREAS,the Commission,under Chapter tb4, Section~b of the (jcncml Lows,may
contractwith the General Manager for such services;

      WHEREAS.the panies have discussedand agre..>d    10 a five (5) year contract for the
General Managerthal will govern the terms and conditionsof his employment;

       11 ICREFORE,in considerationof the mutual covenant.>containedherein. the pa11ies
hereby agree as follows:


Section r,    Functions nnd Duties of the General Manager.

 Inc MMLD hereby offers 10employ JonathanBlair as GeneralManag~rof said MMLDand Mr.
Blairhereby accepis said offer of employment.The GeneralManagershall perform the duties
specifiedin 1heGeneral l,.,ws and local bylaws. his job descriptionand such 01herd11tiesas the
Commissionshall from lime 10time legally ossignlo him.

Seetioo JJ,   Term.

11lisAgreementshall be effectiveSeptember29, 2025 and shall be in full forceand effect until
September28, 2030. The Agreementshall be for a term oflivc (5)) cars, subject 10Section Ill
below. und shall be binding on lhc MMLD in each }Carof i1sduration. This Agreementshall
replaceand superl>Cde  Wl) and all prior emplorme111
                                                   ag,·eemenlsbetweenLhc parties including,
but nor limited 10.the Proposed EmploymentAgreementTerms bel\\ccn 1hepanies dated July
28. 2025.

Section 111, Termination and Severance Pay.

A.     The Commissionmay terminateor otherwisediscipline1heGeneralManager forjus1
       cause at any time during the term of this Agreemen1.Prior 10doing so, the Commission
       shall provide the General Managerwith notice of the basis for lerminutionor other
       disciplineand provide him an opponunilyto be heard on lhe mauer by the Commission.




                                                                                                 16/23
      In 1heeveni 1heGeneral Manageris tenninated by the MMLO prior 10!he expiration of
      1hetenn of this Agreement,the MMLDagrees thOIit shall pay 10the General Managera
      lump sum cash payment equal to six (6) months auregatc salary "hich amount shall be
      paid to th<>
                 General Manageron or before the effectivedate of terminationof his
      employment;provided,ho"e,er. l11atin the event the General Manageris terminated for
      gross misconductin office. the MMLO shall have no obligationto pay the aggregate
      severaace sum providedfor in this paragraph.

C.    In the event the General Manager resignshis position wilh the MMLD beforethe
      c,piration of the term of this Agreement,the GeneralManagershall give LhcMMLD
      si><t)(60) da}s' written notice in advance. unless the panics agree otherwise.

D.    Upon the GeneralManager·s separation fromemployment for an) reason, he shall return
      all MMLD vehicles,keys, computers,paSS"-Ords
                                                 and other MMLVpropcny immedialel)
      at Lhetime of separation.


Section IV,   Salan•.

A.    !effectiveSeptember29, 2025, the MMLD agrees to pny the General J\hurngcrfor
      services renderedunder this Agreementan annual base salar) of $216.000.00. subject 10
      applicablewithholdingsand deductions.

B.    Merit sulnry increasesmay be grantedby the Ooardannuallybeginning September29,
      2026 and in each contract year thereafterbased on the results of the Commission's
      evaluationof the General Manager's performancefor the prior contract}Car.

C.    At the conclusionof the first and each subsequentyear of the contract,the General
      Managermoynlso receive,at the Board"sdiscrclion,a performancebonusor up to five
      percent(5%) of his salary in effect at the time which will bebased on performanceas
      measuredagainstagreed upongoals and the finaacial conditionof MMLD. Said amount
      will be in additionto any merit increasegiven as part of the annual review process
      describedin Section A abo,e. Paid bonusesshall be reportedas wages for the purposes of
      taxationand calculationof pensionto the extent permittedb) law, but will not be added
      10 the GeneralManager's base salary.

D.    All salary amounts under this Sectionshall be payable to the General Managerin equal
      installmcntsat the same time that other employeesof the MMLD are paid.


Sectioo V,    Genernl .Manager Evaluation.

A.    The Commissionshall review and evaluatethe General Manager's performanceat leaSt
      on on annualbasis. Said review and cvolU3tionshall be based on the goals and objec1ivcs
      developedjointly by the Commissionand the GeneralManageros seLfonh in subsection




                                                                                                17/23
                                                                    te said =ie\\ ande,,h1a1ion by
        8 belO\\. and the Commission \\ill endea,or to comple
                                     l )ear. The  Commi     ssion shall  pro, idc 1hc General Manager
        October 29"' of each contrac
                                          e01of the  collecti ve c.aluati on fmdtngs of Commi,>100
        "ith • eom~i1e "rinen <1atem
                                                                      the General Manager to discuss
        Members and ,hull provide nn adcqua1copponunity for
                                                                     members' evaluation~ shall be
        his evaluation \\ilh the Commission. lndi"idual Board
        pan or lhe General Manager·• ~nel           file, but shall no( be treated as a public rcc«d to
        lhc exlenl pcnn1tted by law.
                                                                      at leaSIannuall> to define the goal,
8.       Inc Commission and the Gcn,:ral "1anager shall meCI
                                               ne nccessn ry  for the proper operation of1hc MMLD
         and objectives \\hich lhC) determi
                                                                      \cs, and shall funher establish a
         and the anainm..•ntof the Commission's poliq objcc1i
                 l
                 priori   among    those vuri011  goals
                                                  s     and   obje..11 \es."ith said goal; andobjecti,cs
         genera       I)
                       to  writina.  Said aoals  and objecth  es  shall  be cs1.ablishcdby October 29" of
         10be reduced
                                 for the follo"in g contrac t  year period.  and shall general!~ be
         each contractual )ear
                                             spocine d nnd  within  tile annual  opcming ond capitol
         uuainable within the time hm11s
                                                                         the"' ents that have occurred
         budgcu andappropriations provided by the MMLD and
         during the year


Section VI,      Hou Ml of Work.
                                                                            n to the busillC!,Sof the "1\1l.D
A.       11,c General Manager "ill devote full umc and attentio                                     the npprovnl of
         and will not cn¥11!\C  in any other bu~iness during omce hours, except with
                                                                            at a minimwn. such time and
         the Commis,ic>n. The General ',fan~cr shall devote.
                                                                              rcsponsibiliues of the posiuon.
         elTon ~ is oeccssnry 10 properly perform the duties and
                   the unique nature  of the  position   of  Genera  l Manage      r, il is understood nnd agreed
         Due 10
                            propcrl ) perfonn    the job  required  . the  Genera     l Manager may ha,e 10
         1ha1.in order to
                                    beyond   the   normal   "1\.tLD    work    day;    and the General Muru~cr
         expend additional time
                                                       . includin  g. bul   not  limited    to. aucnding Town
         agrees 10expend such time as required
                                                                                 meetings with To\\n boards
         and/or MM:LDC\enlJ, auendina Town Mcc1inaw,d other
                                                                            ns. The General Mnnn11eris
         and/or officials, and ~onding to emergency bilualio
                     to be accessib le for all  ~rgeoci  cs.    \\ltelh<  :roccurring during or OUISideof
          c'l)ttlcd
                                                                            on a period of le:i,c appro,ed b}
          normal business hou~, unless the General Manager 1s
                                  another  MMLD       cmplo)e   e  has  been    specifically designated b) the
          the Commission and
                                           in  the  Genera   l Manage   r'j  Slead.
          General Manager lOrespond

                                                                       a great deal of time outside the
 8.        It is recognized that the General Manager must de,otc
                    omcc  hours   to the busines s of1he M\ltLD  , and lOthat end the General Manogcr
           normal
                                lake  reasona ble 1ime olTa\ he shall deem   appropriate during said
           \\ill be aJIO\,ed to
           normal office hours.


                                                • ~, funeral
     Section VU, Jn•uruncc, Vnrntion, Sick Ls•••llollda,
                                                                                     Lea,e, Per.oonal Lene
     and Jury Jlu1y.




                                                                                                                      18/23
                                                                                 of Marblehead benefits
A.         The General Manager sh.oilbe eligihlc 10panicipate in the Town
                          10 the same  eligibilit) tc'fms and condition s and contcibut ion rates a.,
           plans. subJcct
           employees of the To\\n   or  Marbleh    end.
                                                                                   per cootract )ear
ll.        The Gencml \,faroi:er sh:tll be granted lhe (5) "eeks' paid vacauoo
                                                                                  Manager up to a
           plu, one (I) nddi1iooalday for each year of employment ns General
                                                                               lhe (5) working days.
           maximwn of six (6) weeks peryear. A "eek ,hall be defined os
                  mo(?)  wecl.s of unused   ,acauon  may  be carried o,·er frum  one )L"1° to the next
           l,p to
                                        vocation he)ond  two  (2) "eeks  being  forfeited "ithout an)
           "ith any additional unused
           compensation.
                                                                                   per contract yeor
C:,        rhe General Mana~cr shall be granted fifteen ( I 5) paid srck d3y,
                                                                                  muxirnum of I60 days.
           l lnused ,icl days ma) be accumulated from year to year up 10a
                                                                                  nof fill> (50) d•ys of
           The General Man~er shall be compensatedfor up 10a ma.-.imw
                              at his then current sal:lr)  rate in the e,cni he retires from public sen ice
           unused ;,rel lea,e
           while &tillserving as General   Manager   of  the MMLD.

 I).       The General Manager shall =ei,e       the following paid holida)S obscned in
           Massachusetts:

                 New Year, D•>                              InJepcndenee Da)
                 Manin Luther King, Jr. Day                 Labor Da)
                 Presidents' Day                            Colwnbus Day
                 Patriot,; Day                              Veterans Da)
                                                             I hnnksgiving Da;
                 Memorial Day
                 Junctecnth                                 Christmas Doy

                                                                                 preceding Friday ~hall
            Whenever an) of the holida)S liSted above falls oo n Smurda), the
                            the holiday. Wheneve  r any or the holidays listcd above  foils on n l>unday,
            be obscr,cd as
            the following .\londay shall be obscned as the holida)
                                                                                    the General Manoger
  I'.       Upon the death or1hc General Manager's spouse or hi'>children,
            \\ill be gmn1ed pard leave of lhe (5) worl<ingdays -.11hout
                                                                              loss of pa) beginning with the
                                                                                    father. mother-in-la\\.
            dale of death. Upon the dca1h of the General Manager's mother,
                                   brother, sister-in- low, brother-i n-low, grandpar  ents or grandchildren.
            futhcr-in-law, sis1cr.
                                                                                         da)s without loss of
            the General Manager "ill be granwd paid lca,c of three (3) worling
            pa) bei:rnning "'ith the dJte of de•th.

                                                                                 each con1cac1)ear.
      r.     The General \1anager shall be gran1ed three (3) paid per,onal da)s
                                                                                    shall not be entitled
             Per,onal da)S ma) not be carried o,er into the next con1rac1)C:lrand
             10any form  of pu)mcnl upon  separatio n from service for any ren.son.

                                                                                 coun or in the Courts
      G.     In the e,ent that the General\1an3&erse.-cs a; a juror ,n a federal
                                                                               ,cebet"ccn his s.rlal)
             of the Common"enlth, he ,hall receive from \-1"1LD lhe differc-.,
                                                                                 of any travel or other
             Md the cornpensnlion he r~-cci,ed for such jury services, exclusive




                                                                                                                19/23
                   provided,however,he shall receive his full pay for his first three days of
       service for the CommonwealthofMassachuseus.


Section VIII, Professional Ocvclopmcnl, Dues and Subscriptions and Other Expenses.

The MMLDagrees 10 pay for the registration,travel and subsiStenceexpensesof the Genera]
Managerforshortcourses,institutes,conferencesandseminars,includingcontinuoustraining
and examinationfees required for profcssiolllllcertification(e.g., project managcmcnl
professional)deemed by the Commissionto be beneficialto the MMLD.

The MMLDagrees to pay for the professionaldues and subscriptionsof the GeneralManager for
his membershipin professionalorganizationsdeemed by the Commissionto be necessaryand
desirable for his continuedprofessionalparticipation,growth and advancementand for the good
oftheMMLD.

An annual amount for all of the foregoingexpensesshall be includedin the MMLDannual
operatingbudget. The total of said expensesunder this Sectionshall be limited to the annual
amountbudgetedfor such expenses.


Section IX,   Automobile.

The MMLD shall providethe General Managerwith a )early vehicle allowancein the amount of
$5,000 to compensatehim for the business use of his personal vehicle in I.heperformanceof his
duties as GeneralManager.This allowanceis intended10cover, bu1is not limited to, lhe costs
associatedwith depreciation,fuel, maintenance,insurance,mileageand other vehicle-related
expensesincurrodfor official businesstravel. The VehicleAllowanceshall be paidon obi­
weekly basis, concurrentwith the General Manager'sregular payroll.The General Manageris
responsiblefor ensuringthat his insurancepolicy allows and covers businessuse of the ,·ehicle.
The General Manageris solely responsiblefor any personal taX obligationsarising from the
receipt oflhis allowance.


Secllon X,    lndemnilicarlon.

The MMLDshall defend, sa,,., harmlessand indemnifythe General Manageragainst any tort.
professionalliability,claim or demand,or other legal action, whethergroundlessor otherwise,
arising out of an allegedact or omissionoccurringin the pcrfonnanceof his duties as Gener11l
Manager,even if said claim has been made followinghis terminationfrom employment,
providedthat the General Manageracted within the scope of his duties. The MMLD shall pay
the amountof any seulementor judgment ronderedthereon. The MMLDmay compromiseond
sctllc any such claim or suil and will pay the amountof any seulemenlor judgmcnl rendered
thereonwithout recourse 10 the General Manager.




                                                                                                 20/23
    provisionsof this Sec1ionshall not apply 10 disputesbetweenthe MMLDand 1heGeneral
Managerregardingthe General Manager's employmentor concerningany of the tem1sand
provisionsof1his Agreement.

            shall survive the lerminationof this Agreement.
This S<.'Clion


Section XI.   Bonding.

11ic Commissionshall bear the full coSIof ony fidelilyor other bonds required of 1hcGeneral
Manager.


Section XTI, :-Ion-Renewalof Agreement.

If the C-Ommissiondecides that it does nm wi,h to renew this Agrncmcntal its expiration.the
Commissionshall give lhe General Managerwriuen notice ofi1s intenl not to renew Ibis
Agreementat leas!six (6) mon1hsin advanceof1he expirationof this Agreemcnt. lf1he
Commissionfails to give such wrincn notice,this Agreementand its terms and conditionsshall
automa1icall)be extended for an additional six (6) month period.

If the Comntissiondoes not give a notice of non-renewal,and the partil-sfoilto ncgotialen
successorcontractb)' the scheduledterminationdate oflhis Agreement.this A:greemcllland its
terms and conditionsshall automa1icallybe extended for an additionalsix (6) monlh period.


Section Xlll, Retirement.

The GeneralManagershall be eligible to participa1ein 1hesame retirementplan as empl0)CCSof
the Town of Marblehead,subject to the san1eeligibilityterms and conditionsand contribu1ion
mies as emplo)ces of the Town ofMarblehcnd.


Section XlV. Notke.s.
Notices pursut1n1
                to 1hisAgreemenlshall be given by deposit in the custody of the United States
Postal Service,postage prepaid. nddressedas follows:

       MMLD:                        Chair of lhc Board of Light Commissioners
                                    80 CommercialS1ree1
                                    Marblehead.MA 01945

       GENERAL MANAGER:             JonuthanW. Bluir
                                    587 Washing1onS1tcet
                                    Gloucester,MA 01930




                                                                                                21/23
              notices requiredpursuant10this Agreementmay be personallyserved. No1,cc
shall be deemed given as of the date of personal service or as of the date of deposit of such
wrinen notice in the course of transmissionin the United States Postal Service.


Seerion XV, General Provisions.

A.        The text herein shall constitute the entire Agreementbetweentl1eparties.

B.        This Agreementshall be construedund governed by the Laws of the Com111on1<eahh
                                                                                      of
          Massachuseus.

C.        lfony proviiion, or any portion thereof,contained in d1isA1,1,,,,111e11t
                                                                                is held
          unconstitutional,im•nlidor unenforceable.the remainderof this Agreement,or portion
          thereof;shall be dccm<.'dsc, croblc,shall not be affeetcd.and shall remain in full force
          and effect.

D.        For the purposesof the Fair Labor StandanlsAct, the General Managershall be nn
          "exempt employee."




     II




                                                                                                     22/23
   WITNESSWIIEREOF,the pnnies hereunto have set their hands and seals to the instrument
the date and year set forth below.


MARBLEHEAD MUNICIPAL LIGHT                            GENERAL MANAGER,
DEPARTMENT,

Acting by and through its
Boardof Light Commissioners,




d:;~~
~JU,mkcr
Matt B. Harnngton




                                                                                          23/23
