                    Joint Light Commission – MMLD Workshop
                             February 10, 2026 minutes
To:             Light Board: Commissioners
                Light Department: J. Blair, General Manager
From:           Jean-Jacques Yarmoff, Chair
Date:           March 2, 2026


A quorum being present, Chair Yarmoff brought the meeting to order at 4:04 pm. The meeting was held in
person at MMLD HQ and with remote internet access, both available to public participation. A recording of
the meeting is made available to the public at the following link.
Participated in workshop:
     Commissioners:       Commissioners Frechette, Harrington and Yarmoff all participated in person.
                          Commissioners Hull and Smith were excused.
     Light Department:    General Manager Jon Blair, Senior Substation Specialist John Wright.

Land Acknowledgement was read by Commissioner Frechette.

Vote to approve minutes of previous meetings
The following minutes of previous meetings were distributed to the commissioners for their review. A
motion was proposed to approve the minutes of the meetings of the Municipal Light Board that took
place on January 22, 2026: Strategy Workshop and on January 27, 2026: Board meeting.

VOTE # 2026-2            Motion to approve the minutes of the meetings listed above was moved by
                         Commissioner Frechette and seconded by Commissioner Harrington.
                         Unanimous vote in favor.

Strategic Plan / Priority List for MMLD
Chair Yarmoff briefly reviewed the process to put in place a long-term strategic plan to guide the actions of
the Light Department. This strategic plan will be set up in two phases: First, setting up a list of short-term
priorities for the coming 18 months - 2 years. Then, later this year, the Light Board will initiate a long-term
strategy setting exercise. The short-term list of priorities is being developed in a series of meetings, including
this workshop, to create a priority list of actions for the next two years. The process started with an all-staff
workshop on January 22, and reviewed at the January 27 board meeting.
A prepared list resulting from the first workshop was shared with the workshop participants and the
public. It is reproduced below. A subset of items were discussed at length. Interested parties are invited
to refer to the recording of the meeting.
After this workshop, the General Manager and the Chair of the board will compile a list of priorities and
present these at a subsequent board meeting.

The Board Meeting concluded at 6:11 pm at which point a motion to adjourn was proposed, seconded
and, after the commissioners voted unanimously in favor, adopted.


                                                 ----****----

                                                                                                          1/2
                 Documents shown during the Light Board Workshop of February 10, 2026
Draft document. Document used may differ from this draft.

                                                                           ..                                                             1:.11 •l•~1'.1'


                                                                                                       ~
                                                            i                        I!"       j   ~          Estimated Time to


                                                        H
                                                                !    ~
                                                                     I
                                                                                ~
                                                                                !i   n     i
                                                                                           ~
                                                                                               ~
                                                                                                   g   l!
                                                                                                       •      achteve (Years}:



                                                                1
                                                                                                                                       Priority Rankin&
                            A<ti,ity                                            e                  i   ;;   Neiir (2yeill"$OrleHI;
                                                        ,Jr;_        I
                                                                     !.i
                                                                                I    il    I I f       !8   Ml<Herm13- 6 yea~1;
                                                                                                                                     {Mi&h/ Hedium/ Low)

                                                            !                   " !.r      Q
                                                                                               Q
                                                                                               I            Lon&:-tenn
                                                                                                                    1>?years)

Move wires underground
                                                                                                       "
Install utility-scale battery
Develop microgrid
Install new transmission line
Harden distribution infrastructure against hazards
Prepare distribution system for toad growth
Improve access to backtot poles
Remove double poles
Create consolidated stock yard
Expand access to specialized equipment
Perform overdue system maintenance
Improve inventory control
Upgrade AMI
Improve safety and reliability of Wilkins plant
Keep staff informed via all-hands meetings
Clarify and promulgate policy via handbook
Establish staff mentoring program
Invest In cross-training staff
Develop outage map for customer awareness
Formalize training and on boarding for new employees
Develop clear succession plan
Standardize operating procedures
Prioritize safety•· "stow is smooth, smooth is fast"
Provide emergency powerpacks for medical customers
Provide proactive notice to customers for disruptions
Invest in cyber-security
Provide customer notifications via two-way texting
Build relationships in the local community
Promote residential batteries
Institute dynamic rates
Manage peak demand
Maintain diverse power ponfolio & appropriate hedging
Leverage existing staff and contractors
Reduce line toss
Provide on-bill rebates
Educate and engage customers
Sponsor geothermal
Track new demand growth
Decarbonize power supply
Prioritize Inclusive Incentives
Create distirbuted energy resource policy
Promote electrification
Update rebates to reflect goals
Add local solar resources
Promote e-bikes and charging
Promote energy coaching
Conven to EV/hybrid fleet
Promote (sman) panel upgrades




                                                                    ----****----

                                                                                                                                                            2/2
