                               Marblehead Public Schools
                             Superintendent Evaluation Goals
                                 2025-2027 School Year

Name: John J. Robidoux

Goal 4: Student Learning Goal:

   1.​ Name of Goal:

      Identifying meaningful ways to assess and enhance/improve students’ academic
      achievement and social/emotional growth PK-12

   2.​ Summary/description of goal:

      It is incumbent upon administrators to ensure that we have ways to assess student
      achievement and growth beginning in the early grades and carried through graduation. In
      the absence of MCAS as a graduation requirement, it is even more important that we
      address ways to ensure students are meeting standards and that their achievement is
      accurately documented in multiple ways. Over the next 18 months, I will work with
      administrators, data team members and our instructional coaches to collect pertinent
      student data focusing on areas of strength and identifying areas of growth and
      development in order to ensure that district assessments are providing meaningful data to
      affect positive student achievement and growth. Along with ensuring that the district has
      the appropriate assessment tools in place, this goal will also explore ways to ensure that
      the curricular materials and resources are supported by our budget and are implemented
      with the proper training for educators.

   3.​ Why did you choose this goal?

      Educators are generally good at knowing where their students’ strengths and areas of
      growth lie, however, having specific measures of academic achievement and
      social/emotional growth is important to ensure that student outcomes are aligned with our
      high expectations. It is important to share, with our educational community stakeholders,
      the ways in which student growth and achievement is measured, what tools we are using
      across the district, and how those tools are chosen and utilized. It is equally important to
      ensure that the budget supports the curriculum, assessments, training and resources
      required for educators to successfully implement programming and assessments across
      the district.

   4.​ How will you measure this goal?

      This goal will be measured by review and sharing of data derived from district
      assessments including, but not limited to: DIBELS, iReady, IXL, MCAS, and common
      assessments. Specific data points will be identified and discussed with stakeholders to
      determine areas of focus. Meetings and discussion with administrators, data team
      members, guidance and our instructional coaches will help inform the data collection and
      review process. Professional development is key, especially when new curricular
      material/assessments are implemented, so ensuring that feedback from educators
      regarding PD provided will help measure effectiveness of this goal. Student outcomes on
      assessments will measure the success of this goal based upon comparison to previous
      assessment periods and how our students compare to similar districts.

   5.​ What will the evidence be that demonstrates meeting this goal?

      Evidence toward the achievement of this goal will be provided through data gathered
      from the aforementioned assessments through mentor meetings, data team meetings,
      input from administrators, assessment results and ongoing conversations with
      instructional coaches and building-based educators and administrators. Utilizing scores
      on AP exams, SATs, ACTs and assessments of special education students will also be
      important evidence toward completion of this goal. Comparing student growth year over
      year and in comparison to similar districts will be a way to measure the success of the
      assessment tools, curricular material, resources provided and student achievement
      moving forward. Reporting the data culled to the School Committee quarterly will assist
      in providing evidence of meeting this goal in an ongoing manner.

   6.​ What is the timeline for this goal? (start, benchmarks, end)

      Data is collected and reviewed from assessments throughout the year and will be reported
      to the school committee quarterly. Report cards, progress monitoring and state/district
      assessment results will provide benchmarks as well. Over the course of the next 18
      months, I will ensure that there will be cohesive, research-based assessments that provide
      student achievement data highlighting areas of strength and areas of growth that will be
      continually addressed.


Standards and Indicators:

I. Instructional Leadership
I-C: Assessment
I-D: Instruction
I-E: Data-Informed Decision-making

II. Management & Operations:
II-C: Scheduling & Management Information Systems
