                                  Marblehead Public Schools
                                Administrator Evaluation Goals
                                  November 2025-June 2027

Name: John J. Robidoux

Goal 1: Professional Practice Goal:

   1.​ Name of Goal:

       Further development of building administrators as the instructional leaders of their
       schools in alignment with district-wide expectations for increased rigor and cohesive
       practices PK-12

   2.​ Summary/description of goal:

       Principals are the instructional leaders of their schools and, as such, need to ensure
       practices within their individual buildings are meaningful and aligned with district
       expectations that all students' instructional needs are being met. In a district that has five
       buildings operating, it is important for those buildings to operate cohesively and not in
       “silos.” This goal is meant to ensure that there is collaboration, communication and
       alignment of instructional practices both vertically across all grades and horizontally for
       grades PK-3. Embedded in enhancing the instructional leadership of our building
       administrators is the expectation that increased rigor is developed to meet the high
       expectations for Marblehead Public Schools.

   3.​ Why did you choose this goal?

       In the absence of cohesive expectations, discussion and collaboration, school building
       administrators have a tendency to operate their buildings somewhat myopically. This is
       not done intentionally, but it is something that transpires organically. This goal was
       chosen in an attempt to ensure that there is cohesiveness across the schools in regard to
       educational language used, instructional practices that are research-based and
       substantially similar between buildings, that all students have a pathway from PK-12 that
       is aligned, and so that transitions between grades and between buildings can become
       more seamless. This is especially important with the shift in responsibilities for curricular
       alignment, oversight, and training shifted from previously employed curriculum directors
       to the Lead Teacher and Instructional Coach model that is currently in place. Building
       principals are charged with ensuring that all aspects of instruction are managed
       accordingly and in alignment with district expectations, as well as, helping to determine
       resources, professional development, and support needed for educators to effectively
       provide academic and social/emotional instruction to our students.

   4.​ How will you measure this goal?
      This goal will be measured, in part, via surveys administered to staff regarding their input
      into the effectiveness of each building principal as an instructional leader.
      Implementation of instructional learning walks by principals in each other’s buildings
      will be a way to create meaningful conversation, feedback and sharing of ideas at
      bi-weekly administrator meetings. This data will help inform the focus of instructional
      leadership, encourage collaboration and help establish cohesive practices. This is also a
      shared evaluation goal for each principal so the success of the goal will be measured by
      ensuring that I effectively evaluate each principal based upon them providing schedules,
      feedback forms and any data collected throughout the year.

   5.​ What will the evidence be that demonstrates meeting this goal?

      Evidence of meeting this goal will be the administration and review of staff surveys along
      with the completion of scheduled learning walks by each principal, by sharing of their
      experiences within our bi-weekly administration meetings, and by providing feedback
      regarding instructional practices throughout the district as indicated within each
      principal’s educator evaluation.

   6.​ What is the timeline for this goal? (start, benchmarks, end)

      Each principal will schedule at least two learning walks at each other’s building between
      October and June. At each bi-weekly administrator meeting, principals will share
      experiences of their instructional learning walks so that there can be a more in-depth
      analysis by the administration team of our shared practices. By the end of the school year,
      each principal will have done an instructional learning walk at each other’s building twice
      and shared feedback, insights, and thoughts with the team. By the end of January, each
      principal will have met with me to provide mid-year progress on this goal and by June,
      feedback will be provided as a part of each principal’s educator evaluation. Staff surveys
      will be administered in the spring and the feedback will be reviewed and shared with
      each principal, which will help inform areas of strength and identify any areas of growth
      while also assisting with providing a basis for establishing future goals. Over the course
      of the next 18 months, I will ensure that I have addressed this goal and the benchmarks
      and share quarterly reports of changes to practices that may result from ongoing
      observations, discussions and results of the surveys


Standards and Indicators:

IV. Professional Culture
IV-D: Continuous Learning
IV-E: Shared Vision
