Mid-Cycle Formative Evaluation Report: Superintendent




 Superintendent:                John Robidoux

 Evaluator:                     Marblehead School Committee
                            Name                                        Signature                                Date



      Step 1: Assess Progress Toward Goals (Reference performance goals; check one for each set of goal[s].)



Professional Practice Goal(s)                   ☐ Did Not Meet   X Some Progress    ☐ Significant Progress       ☐ Met        ☐ Exceeded

Student Learning Goal(s)                        ☐ Did Not Meet   ☐ Some Progress    X Significant Progress       ☐ Met        ☐ Exceeded

District Improvement Goal(s)                    ☐ Did Not Meet   ☐ Some Progress    X Significant Progress       ☐ Met        ☐ Exceeded



      Professional Practice
      Goal: Establish a consistent district-wide culture and development of appropriate staffing patterns to meet the needs of our
      students.


      Purpose of Goal: The Superintendent will work to determine clear avenues of communication with staff, parents/caregivers
      and community partners so that pertinent stakeholders have a venue to provide meaningful, appropriate and pertinent
      feedback/input as we determine the current needs of the district. The first step in working toward this goal is to do an in-depth


      [Type here]
staff-student analysis that will help inform the next steps required in order to determine how to meet all students where they
are academically and socially/emotionally.
Evidence:
   •   Staff workload report initial draft
   •   School Committee Meetings presentations
   •   Open Door Policy


Feedback:
John has started the work on this goal toward the staff accountability report. The School Committee is expecting a complete
analysis and recommendations on the data provided. The results of this analysis will drive the budget process in the next
Fiscal Year. The next step would be to provide more analysis of full staff data with a focus on, but not be limited to, special
education, general education and all support staff. Data tying staffing levels to student outcomes is essential.
The Committee would also like to see more of a willingness to identify areas of concerns as a primary step in addressing
issues.
John has been successful communicating with stakeholders through newsletters, School Committee meeting presentations
and an open-door policy as expected.
A clear vision for school culture should be presented by John followed by surveys to get feedback. Results of surveys should
be used to improve school culture and then presented to the School Committee as evidence of this goal area.




Student Learning
Goal: Ensuring that students have a voice in their teaching and learning.




[Type here]
Purpose of Goal: Throughout the school year, the Superintendent will be working with administrators to establish vehicles for
student voice that is appropriate for the K-3, 4-6, 7-8 and 9-12 grade levels. In a District where we want to ensure that students
are our first priority, we need to establish specific ways that students can share their opinions, input and feedback in
meaningful ways.


Evidence:
   •   School Committee meeting presentations – school spotlights
   •   Attending Student Flag Forum
   •   Weekly school walk throughs
   •   METCO student lunch discussion




Feedback:
Solid gains were made in this area. A successful implementation was the Brown school student leadership program. The
Committee would like to see evidence of similar programs at all other schools. John should strengthen opportunities for
student directed leadership. The committee looks forward to seeing students added to the anti-discrimination committee as
planned and results of a student survey.


District Improvement
Goal: Marblehead School District Improvement Plan (DIP) 2025-2028


Purpose of Goal: Massachusetts requires the establishment and implementation of a District Improvement Plan (DIP) for public
schools in three-year increments. The DIP is sometimes referred to as a strategic plan.
Evidence:
   •   Draft District Improvement Plan
[Type here]
Feedback:
The level of detail being proposed for the plan is good. John is on a promising path for developing a true District Improvement
Plan that will help guide and justify future budgets. Elements of the plan should be tied back to student outcomes whenever
possible. Every planned outcome must be measurable and the measurement should be consistently communicated. Plans
for stakeholder feedback that can be shared with the committee should also be identified for progress monitoring.
The plan should be developed over the summer with periodic School Committee reviews and presented in early fall for School
Committee approval. Implementation is expected prior to the FY27 budget development.


Comments and Final Analysis:


John faced and inherited many challenges in his first ten months in the district and has remained positive.
He has started work on a needs-based budget that is based on data driven through reports in staffing needs.
We are looking forward to the analysis of this data to inform and drive the next budget. We are looking
forward to the next iteration of the District Improvement Plan. Student voice has been shown in some
areas, and we are encouraged by his plans to strengthen the plan.
John has put strong fundamental pieces together regarding his goals, resulting in an overarching
improvement in the district. These will facilitate his ability to proceed even further towards the completion
of his goals even faster. Most importantly, John’s achievement of these goals will positively impact all the
students of Marblehead Public Schools.




[Type here]
