                                                     Marblehead School Committee – Bargaining Subcommittee

                 MARBLEHEAD                             9 Widger Road,
                                                        Marblehead, MA 01945
                PUBLIC SCHOOLS                          phone: 781.639.3140 x10114
                                                        email:schoolcommittee@marbleheadschools.org
           Sarah Fox                        Jennifer Schaeffner               Thatcher Kezer
       Committee Member                      Committee Member                Town Administrator



                                          FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

                                                October 1, 2024

The Marblehead School Committee Bargaining Sub-committee (Sub-committee) met with the Marblehead
Education Association (Union) in a bargaining session today, October 1st, 2024. The MEA presented a new
wage proposal which the Sub-committee dedicated significant time to costing out the proposal in order to
determine the financial implications. This included a one-year contract combined with a consecutive three-
year contract and contained a wage proposal with a cost of $9,691,000 over the four-year period. The current
MEA proposal would result in either significant staff reductions or a tax override in excess of 9% over
current property taxes. It is important to note the cost is to cover Unit A (professional staff) alone and does
not account for increases for the other four units.

The MEA presented the Sub-committee with “wage goals” on June 11th, strongly stating these were only
goals. After multiple meetings over the summer the MEA finally confirmed on September 10th their “wage
goals” were a formal wage proposal. The Sub-committee promptly provided a wage counter proposal at the
next bargaining on September 23rd.

The Sub-committee is receptive to a one-year contract with a consecutive three-year contract and is using this
new structure to provide updated wage proposals at our meeting on October 8th, 2024.

The bargaining session ended when the MEA handed package proposals to the Sub-committee for
Paraprofessionals, Permanent Substitutes, and Tutors, stating they were disappointed by the Sub-committee
and were no longer willing to bargain further tonight. No new package proposal was provided by the MEA
for Custodians.

The Department of Labor Relations did take jurisdiction of negotiations between the Sub-committee and the
Custodians unit but asked the parties to meet again prior to their November 8th deadline to determine how
much movement can be made prior to assigning a mediator.

The Sub-committee wishes to thank Alec Goolsby, Chair of the Finance Committee, for joining them for
negotiations tonight. His presence is a positive example of the town and schools working collaboratively
towards a solution that serves students, staff and the community as a whole.

The Sub-Committee was hopeful both parties would be able to reach an agreement tonight and continues to
work towards this goal, maintaining their position that Marblehead Public Schools is an attractive employer
as evidenced by our new administrations ability to quickly fill the majority of recent vacancies.

The committee is scheduled to meet again to bargain on October 8th.
