                 MUNICIPAL LIGHT DEPARTMENT

To the citizens of the Town of Marblehead:

The Marblehead Municipal Light Department is pleased to provide its 121st annual
report and financial statements for the calendar year ending December 31, 2015.

The weather in the early months of 2015 provided the area with a parade of one
hefty snow storm after another, leaving the Town buried in over six feet of snow.
Even with all the snow, our system didn’t encounter any prolonged outages. The
continuous cold weather in 2015 put constraints on the gas pipelines into New
England, forcing the running of oil-fired generation up to a premium cost. These
factors, as in the past, drove up our purchased power costs for the months of
January through March.

The summer of 2015 had only a few days over ninety degrees and we did not
experience any prolonged heat waves. We set yearly demand peak for 2015 on July
20th with the demand of 27,405 KW. This was substantially below the previous
record of 31,639 KW set in 2013. Total energy consumption for the year 2015
remained almost constant, decreasing from 105,357,501 kilowatt-hours in 2014 to
105,294,644 kilowatt-hours in 2015.

The end of 2015 brought another full year of energy production from our Berkshire
Wind Power Project, exemplifying the success of public power in conjunction with
renewable energy sources. This wind power project has once again exceeded
expectations in the production of clean energy. The town’s portion was 3,323,996
KWH of electricity. The Marblehead Municipal Light Department continues to look
for renewable energy resources through its membership in the Massachusetts
Municipal Wholesale Electric Company.

We did see an increase in local photovoltaic systems this year with seven new
residential systems installed. Presently there are twenty two photovoltaic systems
installed on buildings in Marblehead. The Light Department has already been
contacted by two homeowners this year for the installation of photovoltaic systems
on their buildings.

With greater than 50% of New England’s electricity production from fossil fuels,
and the largest share being natural gas, changes in the cost of fuels, either up or
down, will impact the wholesale cost of electricity in the region. The low cost of
natural gas of previous years has now led to congestion and availability problems on
the pipelines into New England. Residential use takes priority during the coldest
months for heating, leaving little left for power plants. This has in turn has caused
the need to run oil-fired generation more often in the winter months, which drives
up power prices due to increased fuel costs.

This continuing pressure on natural gas delivery has required MMLD to run our
diesel generators on occasion to support the power grid in the northeastern
Massachusetts (or NEMA) zone, due to few generating stations in the area. It is
usually during times of system stress, such as extended cold or hot weather spells,
when our units are needed. The units are a proven resource for the town, reducing
our power purchase costs, reducing overall costs, and supplying the town with
emergency power if necessary.

Due to the importance of these generators to the town, we are currently performing
upgrades to the system, allowing these units to run as clean, quiet, and efficiently as
possible.

Although new sources of generation supply are required to meet the needs of our
growing customer usage, we also recognize the importance of energy efficiency and
demand side management programs within our community to try and reduce some
of that growth requirement. Our programs provide various rebates when customers
buy more energy efficient appliances, programmable thermostats and cool home
rebates. Through this program, administered by MMWEC, our customers received a
total of $10,700.00 during 2015. For further information on the Light Department’s
e n e rg y a n d c o n s e r v a t i o n p r o g r a m s p l e a s e v i s i t o u r w e b s i t e a t
www.marbleheadelectric.com or call 781-631-5600.

Marblehead Municipal Light Department’s Advanced Metering System is
continuing to prove itself as a valuable tool. During outages to our customers, we
are notified through the Smart Meter System as to the location of the outage. This
notification in turn allows for faster restoration by identifying the location of the
failed electrical component. There are times when our electrical crews are already
on the way to repair outages before our customers are even aware there is a
problem. These types of smart systems are the future of the utility business.

As part of the light department’s continuing 5-year budget and work-plan, work
continued on several distribution projects in 2015.

     •    Work on the Ocean Avenue (Marblehead Neck) conductor upgrade project
          was completed in 2015.
     •    The installation of three voltage regulators on Ocean Avenue for the circuit
          that serves Marblehead Neck was completed in 2015.
    •    The installation of LED street lighting in the down town business area of
         Atlantic Avenue and Pleasant Street was completed in 2015. This will be a
         project continued in 2016.

    •    Work had begun on the Clifton Avenue conductor upgrade project by
         setting all new poles, and installing new hardware. Completion of this
         project should be in 2016.


In addition to our distribution and construction projects, we also continued the
review and design process for the Commercial Street building, and completed a
conceptual design of the facility in 2015. The department has retained Winter Street
Architects of Salem to work with us to develop plans and go forward on this design.
The original Commercial Street building was updated in 1969, adding the business
offices to the generating facility. The building is in need of considerable work to
bring it up to today’s building code requirements. Originally constructed in 1894, it
has served MMLD well and we plan to continue that service well into the future,
with thoughtful design and respect for the past. There are few options in a town so
fully developed, so relocating or new construction were both quickly ruled out as
options. Construction will begin in 2016.

Net surplus revenue that was returned to the Town to reduce the tax levy in 2015
was $330,000, part of the thirteen-year cumulative amount through 2015, totaling
$5,010,000.

Appreciation is tendered to the Board of Selectmen, Town Officials, Department
Heads, and to all Town employees for their continued support, cooperation, and
contributions.

Respectfully Submitted,

Andrew F. Hadden, General Manager
Michael A. Hull, Chairman
Walter E. Homan, Commissioner
Michael A. Tumulty, Commissioner
Joseph T. Kowalik, Commissioner
Michael J. Maccario, Commissioner
