DATE POSTED: .
sot oat

Von Clerk Use ‘Only

Wr OCT 1G AM it hS

MEETING NOTICE

POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 30A § 20 Act relative to extending certain COVID-19 measures
adopted during the state of emergency

Marblehead School Committee

Name of Board or Committee

Address: Marblehead High Schoo! Library 2 Humphrey Street Marblehead MA 01945

OR

Zoom Conference: https://marbleheadschools-
org.zoom.us/j/978867628 1 7?pwd=S5hT6kswajlCtbJ VaC2uYOn1 pdiv7fE,1

Meeting ID: 978 8676 2817
Password: 610612
Dial in Phone +1 646 931 3860 US

Wednesday October 15 2025 6:30PM

Day of Week Month Date Year Time

I.

TL.

Agenda or Topics te be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

Initial Business: Call to Order
a. Pledge of Allegiance
b. Commendations
c. Public Comment
d. Student Representative

District Updates — Supt, John Robidoux
a. Superintendent Update
b. High School Graffiti Incident

Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills (vote)
b. Meeting Minutes: (9/30/25) (vote)
c. Approval of Policy Updates (vote)

BA: School Committee Operational Goals

BBAA: School Committee Member Authority

BBBA/BBBB: School Committee Member Qualifications/Oath of Office
BBBC: School Committee Member Resignation

BBBE: Unexpired Term Fulfillment

BG: School Committee Policy Development

BGC: Policy Revision and Review

BIBA: School Committee Conferences, Conventions, and Workshops
IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

a. Approval of Policy Revisions (vote)
BEDH; Public Comment at Schoo! Committee Meetings
BHE: Use of Electronic Messaging by School Committee Members
BID: School Committee Member Compensation and Expenses
Revoke Policy BK: School Committee Memberships (vote)
Second Reading, IHAI-A: Middle School Pathway Exploration
Domestic Violence Proclamation (vote)
Superintendent Progress versus Goals
School Committee Goals Next Steps (potential vote) |

i. Potential Edits/Consolidation
g. Sub Committee Chairs

monos

Vv. Closing Business

a. New Business
b. Correspondence

VI. Motion and vote to meet in executive session for the following reasons:

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3), “Purpose 3”, to discuss litigation, Marblehead
School Committee and Marblehead Teachers Association, MUPL-24-10570, as an open meeting may have

a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the School Committee and the Chair so declares without
intent to return to open session.

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(2), Purpose (2) to conduct collective bargaining
session with Marblehead Education Association, specifically to hear a Step Three grievance regarding the
Lead Teacher Stipend, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return to open session.

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3), Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to
collective bargaining, specifically to deliberate regarding a response to the Step Three grievance regarding
the Lead Teacher Stipend, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return to open session.

Chair’s Statement following roll call vote on the motion:

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 2.1(a)(3), “Purpose 3”, to discuss litigation, Marblehead
School Committee and Marblehead Teachers Association, MUPL-24-10570, as an open meeting may have
a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the School Committee and the Chair so declares without
intent to return to open session.

Exccutive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21{a)(2), Purpose (2) to conduct collective bargaining
session with Marblehead Education Association, specifically to hear a Step Three grievance regarding the
Lead Teacher Stipend, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent o return to open session.

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3), Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to
collective bargaining, specifically to deliberate regarding a response to the Step Three grievance regarding
the Lead Teacher Stipend, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent fo return to open session.

VI. Executive Session
Adjournment

Hybrid Meeting Notice: Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person at 2 Humphrey Street
Marblehead MA 01945 or by the remote zoom connection provided. Please note that the in-person meeting
will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the remote connection,

THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Chairperson: Al Williams
Posted by: Al Williams
Date: 10/10/25

John Robidoux
Superintendent of Schools

Marblehead Public Schools

Julia Ferreira LisaMarie Ippolito

Assistant Superintendent of — Assistant Superintendent of

Teaching & Learning Student Services

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-3140

Michael Pfifferling
Assistant Superintendent of
Finance & Operations

MEMORANDUM
TO: Marblehead School Committee
FROM: Michael Pfifferling, Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations
DATE: October 10, 2025
RE: Schedule of Bills for Approval

Included in this packet are the following Schedules of Bills for your consideration. The schedules and
invoices have been uploaded to the shared drive.

Schedule Amount

A26-11 —- DW — MSR $424,342.96
A26-11 — FAC-—LM $11,177.45
A26-12 - DW- KM $540.00
A26-12 — DW — MSR $36,696.78
A26-12 — FAC-LM $15,012.68

A26-12 — SS— KG $95,499.03
A-26-13 — FS—LM $7,436.89
A26-13 ~ DW — MSR $117,517.05
A23-14 ~ FAC —LM $14,666.01

A26-14 - 55 ~ KG $141,009.09

A26-14-FS-CF $197,408.07
Total $1,061,306.01

Suggested Motion:

Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $1,061,306.01
DRAFT MINUTES

Marblehead School Committee

Chair: Al Williams

Meeting Date, Time & Location: Tuesday, September 30, 2025, 6pm, MHS Library, 2 Humphrey Street
Marbiehead MA 01945

SC Members Present: M. Clucas, H. Gwazda, J. Schaeffner, K. Schmeckpeper, A. Williams

Agenda & Materials: Link

Meeting Recording: Link

Minutes Respectfully Submitted By: Henry Gwazda

Call to Order: Mr. Williams called the meeting to order at 6:02PM. The committee recited the Pledge of
Allegiance. There were no commendations, nor public comment.

Student Representative: College recommendations being worked on; 100 colleges and universities will
be visiting between Nov & Dec. There are 8 National Merit Scholars and 1 semi-finalist. A substance
abuse / risk factor survey is being fielded and students in health classes are being CPR certified. The
annual Boosters donation drive is slated to take place this weekend.

Consent Action and Agenda Items: There was no schedule of bills to approve. Mr. Williams asked for
a motion to approve meeting minutes from 7/2/25, 7/31/25 and 9/18/25. Ms. Schmeckpeper moved to
approve these minutes, Mr. Gwazda seconded. The motion carried 4-0 with Ms. Schaeffner abstaining.

Village School PTO Donation: Ms. Schmeckpeper made a motion to accept a donation intended to
benefit the students of Village School. The funds will be used to install water bottle filling stations. The

full job will cost $4,206. The motion was seconded by Mr. Gwazda. The motion carried 5-0.

Update on Town Charter review: The school committee was asked to review the town charter draft and
recommend any factual corrections. Ms. Schmeckpeper reviewed Article 6, section 6.8 (which pertains
to the school committee) and had one concern, which the Town Charter committee addressed by adding
sentence 4.5 (in packet) - which clarifies that the SC is responsible for the administration of the budget
once approved by Town Meeting.

2025/26 SC Goals: Mr. Williams requested that S.M.A.R.T. goals be submitted by members; six were
sent in. .

e Ms. Schaeffner felt that an open meeting violation occurred and made a motion that the Chair
self-report. Ms. Schmeckpeper seconded for purposes of discussion. Although there was
disagreement on whether an OML violation did, in fact, occur, the committee voted to self-report
and seek an appropriate remedy. The motion passed 4-1, with Mr. Williams opposed.
e Mr. Gwazda shared that he wants to develop better communication tools to amplify district /
committee stories that are already being told, and solicit / tell stories that aren't, using
resources that we already have (meeting updates, distribution tools) and some that we need to
develop. He proposed a timeline to launch in mid-November, building a calendar and
repackaging the superintendent update as a start. Ms. Clucas agreed, and emphasized the need
to understand preferred communication channels of audiences.

e Mr. Gwazda also proposed a goals tracker that can be used to communicate the School
Committee's progress on self-imposed goals, keeping the community informed and driving
accountability. The tracker could be hosted by Google tools and embedded into the existing SC
website. Mr. Gwazda shared a timeline for implementation: build by end of October, launch by
end of November.

e Ms. Clucas proposed a goal aimed toward improving transparency and accountability. First, a
baseline survey this fall to understand the community's level of access to and understanding of
the committee's work, and surveying again at a few points during the year. Also, the creation of
instant recaps following meetings, to supplement minutes and improve the community's access
to information.

e Ms. Clucas also suggested strengthening financial transparency, including providing
information to help the community understand the budget and allowing opportunities to discuss.
This effort would include close collaboration with FinCom to explain realities, requests, tradeoffs.
The goal would be to implement by March 2026. Ms. Schmeckpeper supported the effort to find
new / different ways to share and discuss budget information.

e Ms. Schmeckpeper proposed a goal to elevate educator voices to inform decision-making.
Jointly with the administration, build a series of listening sessions to understand educators’
perspectives on salient issues. Additionally, adding an educator representative to sit at the SC
table during meeting, and encouraging the student representative to play a more active role. Ms.
Schaeffner recommended consulting legal to understand challenges and expressed concern with
possible overreach into the Superintendent's role. The committee discussed strengthen

e Ms. Schaeffner believes the goals should be focused on budget, policy and managing the
superintendent, including finding ways to fund the district, maximize student achievement and
manage the superintendent.

e Ms. Schmeckpeper proposed a goal to support the Superintendent in completing and
communicating the District Improvement Plan, and that community input is gathered.
Additionally, that the committee consider its role in strategic planning moving forward. Currently,
there is not a central document for everyone to use to move in a similar direction.

Next steps: Mr. Williams to contact MASC to recruit a facilitator to help the committee to finalize goals.
Process for Supt Evaluation: Mr. Williams presented a plan for the superintendent's review cycle, and
how the school committee members will participate. Over the next few meetings the superintendent
evaluation will take place (off cycle) and he will need to set new goals.

Subcommittee & Liaison Updates

e SEPAC Liaison: Mr. Gwazda met with SEPAC and discussed the ways in which the SC liaison
can function for the group, ways in which they can integrate with the SC, and that they're looking
for members.

e Roof Advisory: Mr. Gwazda shared that the group held their first meeting, reviewing a
presentation from Left Field. RDA was in attendance. The group conducted introductions and the
timeline for their work. A recording of the meeting is available on the SC’s YouTube page.

e Policy Subcommittee: Ms. Schmeckpeper shared that the policy subcommittee met this
morning to discuss a set of first read policy revisions and rescinations, which will come before the
committee soon. Ms. Schaeffner invited the committee to flag policies that are of interest for
review. Mr. Williams expressed interest in reviewing the policy governing kindergarten start
requirements.

e Facilities Subcommittee: Mr. Gwazda shared that the facilities subcommittee met over the
summer to review the list of summer facilities, and that the bulk of the updates from their meeting
was shared. The committee will be looking at school signage

New Business

Mr. Gwazda noted that a liaison may be between the school committee and the Charter School. He will
research and follow up.

Mr. Williams raised that several SC members are going to the MASC conference in November. If the
committee so chooses, the group will need to vote on a delegate by mid-October. The committee will
also need to review the slate of questions that will be voted upon.

Adjournment: Mr. Williams asked for a motion to adjourn to executive sessions. The committee does
not plan to return. Ms. Schmeckpeper moved, Mr. Gwazda seconded. The motion passed 5-0. The
Committee went into executive sessions at 7:26pm.
Tewksbury School Committee Goals 2023-2024

= Tewksbury Public Schools 2023-2024 District Strategy:

The Tewksbury Public Schools Community believes that our educational program will reflect
our collective Vision of a Learner. Our consistent observable growth among our students and
staff will be evident in the achievement of academic, social, and emotional success in school
and far beyond.

= Tewksbury Public Schools 2023-2024 Theory of Action:

When the Tewksbury Public Schools prioritizes a Vision of a Learner that focuses on creative
problem solving, collaboration, and effective communication, then all students will experience
innovative, inclusive, equitable, and student-centered instruction prioritizing academic, social
and emotional positive outcomes.

a Tewksbury School Committee Mission Statement:

The Tewksbury School Committee (SC) proposes the following goals for the 2023-2024 school
year. The intent of these goals is to support the mission of Tewksbury Public Schools in
offering all students a high-quality, student-centered, innovative, and accessible education that
prioritizes positive outcomes for all.

School Committee Goals and Action Steps

C1] Duty to Govern Established Policies and Oversee, Evaluate, and Monitor the
Execution of Policies

By June 30th, 2024, the School Committee will conduct a review and update school committee
policies that support the district plans to provide educational programming to be sure they are
up-to-date and in compliance with state/ federal law and regulations. This goal wiil be
measured by the changes made in identified policies and the clear communication of changes
to the school community.

Action Steps:

1.

The SC Policy Subcommittee shall continue to convene and review current policies and
recommend adjustments/updates with appropriate central office staff.

Identify the policies that will be reviewed and adjusted

Publish final changes and communicate how the changes apply to the school community.

School Committee Goals and Action Steps (cont.)

(] Committee Support of District Wide Efforts to Increase and Improve Communication

By June 30th, 2024, the School Committee will have developed and implemented a proactive
communication plan that celebrates the successes of the district and that regularly updates the
public regarding the district's challenges as measured by agenda items, meeting minutes and
increased attendance of all committee members at district events.

Action Steps:

1.

2.

Through the Superintendent, collaborate on, and create, a platform for information sharing by
November 1, 2023.

Through the Superintendent, identify the events and activities which prompt School Committee
presence during the school year.

Individual members of the SC will consistently share updates and information on the
subcommittees, advisory committees, and other relevant groups they are assigned to or
involved with.

School Committee’s Professional Practice Goal

C1] Committee Commitment to Building Knowedging, Capacity, and Effectiveness

The committee will participate in professional development and opportunities to build their
knowledge of school systems and how to govern them effectively.

Action Steps:

1.
2.
3.

Attend the MASC & MASS Joint Conference in November.

Engage in training and professional development focused on collective bargaining.

Begin the practice of scheduling an annual spring time workshop to review progress towards
the goals aforementioned and to begin discussing priorities and potential goals for the
upcoming year.

uoNaL

Ayiodwiy « yoipuiuuelag » AlsSa1U/ « Padsey « S2UDIBAISIAg 6

“dnosgiq ayy Woy Yoddns yum ued 213a}e3s dy} Jo UOIe]UaLA|du] BY} 4OJ si||quIaL Wea} ZuIpINS JIASIP se UOedioIed Uosiey anuUOD “Ss
“suojeanpaesed 4o $aj0J4 au} Uo dnou3gns Ayinb3 ay) wo. ssulpuyy 343 404 Yoddns apiaoid pue ajenjeal “y
“sjuapnis Loddns 0} pesinbas saoinosad Aue Jj Sulpuny ajed01/2 pue aye} |OOYds UO eJep ASAIN JUaPNs aJeIIUNLUWOD PUe Ma!ABY *E
“spdau DIWapese-UOU pUue WWapede |]2 SepOWWOIIE 0} Sajnpays
jooyas 0} apew sjuauysn[pe Aue Suipnjsu! sjooyps a[ppily ay} Jo UOeINZyUCsa1 Mau B4i YIM sasueyo panulUo ay} siBpjoysyers YUM sleyUNUWOD °Z
‘Auessazau pawaep uayMm suoddns jeuoluppe jo UoNequaa|du! ayy 404 Suipuny aiero}je pue Winjnowno Mau ay} jo UoHeUaWA|du!
ay} 0} saSueys quasaid pue ysed Jo saya Sy} SUILUAaIEp 0} SJUBLUNAISU! BUl}Seq BPIM-I9I4ISIP WOOL poyeisuad ssaiZoid slwapese jo suiodas ajenjeaq “T
‘Sd3LS NOLDYV

“saninias Jo Alaaljap Ul 8jo1 Siojeanpaeied uo!eonpe jeads Jo mained ayy pue ‘SAaAINS aTEUUI/O JUBPNYs ‘Se;Npayas pue SUOHeINSijUoI |OoYIs Mau Jo
MAIAAI S|UBWUSSASSE JO SOLS PAaysiiqeyse ‘SoewWaY}eW Ul LUNINDLUNI Mau dy} JO UOLeWaWE|duUy] |njssadons ay Aq paunsea aq {[IM [EO sy “a}e}S BY} WI}
aoueping pue uejd a1Saqesjs ay} Wo. senrelu! paysigerse ay} Suisn squapnis jo Sujusea] jeuoToWs-jeId0s pue ‘UOe Nps 4o Aynbe “uawaaalyoe JWaEpede
aui Hoddns 0] se Aem e yons ul SuluwesZold jeuoHeonps aplaosd 0} sueld JLASIP ayy LOddns |[IM aeyWWIWO? JOOYDS 42 “aead |OOUdS PZ0Z-EZOZ GY} Suing

swieidoig Wwapery Zuoddns [7]

sdajs uoloy pue sjeod aayIWiW0 jooUrS

-uejd 218832135 ay) Ul paulyno sjeo3 spimjouIsip ay) s2v0julad pue oddns oj papuazul se sea JOoYDs ZOZ-EZOT BUY} 405 s]208 Sumoljoy ayL
SBOD SPIAA LISI

"seah
JOOUDS PZOZ-EZOZ BY} 105 $/203 SuIMo|}oOy ayy Sasodosd aayWLULUOD jooYas ay} ‘ssequisu AWUNWWOD SuLyNqIUOS aq 0} Auessagau uolpaJIp-jjas pue

AquSequi ayy ssassod om suausea| Suojay!] papunos-|jam pue ‘aanes.d ‘pasidsul ayealyjnd 03 sjoouss I11qNd P1ojswJay ey} JO uOIssi ayy Woddns Oo}
JUSUISZEIS VOISSIP]

PTETOT IPOD PEIMUILIOD [OOPS P4sosLjayD

Auipdwy « uonDUIWUeIEG « AusolUu| » DedSey « P2UDIJAISIEg &

“UOISIA S,JO14ISIP BY] 10} 1XO]U0I aplAoid

0} Sjuaied pue ‘jYWe}s ‘sjuapnys J0J JuUaWdojanap jeuoissajosd pue SulUWeIZOId |euoeInpa 40) sedunosas BuNerojje pue saidyjod Burmainss Aq sdno3
[12 gO Ajiaisnjoul pue ‘Ayinba ‘AySuaAIp JO Sed1e BUJU! J1I}SIP JOOYDS BY} JO UOISIA BY} Sulpsesas AjuNWLWUOD Japeoig pue jOOYIS ay} aseSus puke WUOJU] “E
“sao4nOsel |eIOUeUy SpiAcid Pue spaau UO eyep ABAINS yes MAIASY —°Z

“swuedZo1d daid saysed} snoweA YUM JauLed pue JUD 0} SOS JUaIIND UO s|yepdn anlaveay TT

*Sdals NOILDV

“uononsysut
aaisuodsas Ajjesnyjn3 uo sAaauns jeys pue ‘swesZoijd uoieredaid seyoeay YIM SUOITeIOge||Oo paseasou} ‘SIdquUaU Jje}S UIL}SI Pue INII9I O} Sassasdoid paysijqeisa
[fe4ny HEAS pl y y I It t

UO SaTJWIWOD By} 0} soda. YSnosyy paunseaws aq [mM [eOF SiyL “|e 40} sJUsWUOIIAUa BulUJea] ajes ‘@aisnjoul ‘AAIISOd e Suijea.o ‘UoMe;ndod 44e3s pue juapnis
ASIBAIP B JO SPSBU BY} BBW 0} HEIs SMOI]E JEY] BIOPUOM e B]LAIYIND 0] S9dA0|dWa ainjny pue yUaIND 104 Sulpuny ayer0}je pue Woddns jm ‘ssapjoyayers 139y}O
pue ‘saounosau uewNny Jo JO;SJIp ‘JuapUsjUadNs JUeYSISSe ‘JUspUdULJadNs ay? YIM UO!eIOGe]]}O9 Ul da} WLIO jOoYds ay} UBBA jOOYDs PZOZ-EZOT BUI SuLNG

Hers 9a1Ia433 Ajysiy e Sururequeyy oO

sdajs uonoy pue sjeod saTIWUio? joouss

cn wT

Auyodury « uonDuIUUe}Eq « Aldselu] + edSey s aUDIBAaSIOg &

“spsepueys Sulues|> Vddiy 0} paiedwiod se suoiipuos Suipying yo maiaad ay} SyeuNWWOD

“paya|dwos S4ap10 sduUeUS IEW UO sodas ayesiunuiwio;

“SOIPPEIL [LIOURUL $,UMO} BY} JO SOUIJUOD BY} UUM Spaau anny papaloid ay] eau 03
suondo Aqyoey mau ansind 0} anuiquod se jam Se ‘SaI}|I9e) JUd4IND JNO Ul Spaau jeyded Jo UO!eZHOLUG Binjny spins 0} suo!yafosd JUsU|jolue azAjeuy

“sease Ayolid jo uonajduuos 10} suejd jeyded Wsaj-LoOYs aziold pue MalAay
“JUISIP BY} IUWM spsau jeIUeUY aunjny pue Juan

BulJapisuos sead |OOYDS SZ0Z-/Z0Z SUI 104 Je3pnq e dojansp pue ‘papaau se sjuauysnipe Alessazau ayew ‘O}\LWapued ET-CIAOD 24} 0} pazejai sainuase
{e090} pue ‘a}e3s ‘jesapa Woy sjueud |je Buipnyoul “yaBpnq sea yUa.uNd ay) JOWUOW 0} JOJeJIsUIWpe SsouUIsNq pue JUepUajULadns 343 YUM YOM

sdajs uoldy puke sjeo5.aaqIWUW0> jooyIS

T

*Sd3LS NOLLIV

“spuepueys Sulueal|d dd DUE ‘SuapJO YJOM aIUeUaIUIEW

‘suejd jetides ‘syuauindop yaspngq ‘syoda, jeoueuy Aq paunseaw aq [Im [208 sIyL “LISIP 8U2 Ul SIapjoysaye}s |e YM asay} ayerUNWUOD Ajeal> ||! pue
‘spaeu Auioes aunyny pue JUALIN ‘syuaWasiNbad Jespng ainynj pue 3US1UNI BulpN|IU! JDLWSIP BYi JO spaeu ay} SUOddns Jey} UCHepUNd, jenueUY ajqeuleisns
‘pausye ue dojanap 03 s[elayjo UMo} pue ‘jauUOsJad jOOYIS “MapUajULadNS 3Yy YIM YOM jJIM SB} WWLWO2 jOOYIS BY) “1eah jOOUIS YZOZ-EZOZ OY) BuLNG

sazinosay Aqyioey pue jenueuly peusyy suuequew ©

Quod 6

Ayodwy » uonpuituss19q « AUsaIU] « PIdSoy « IDUDIBAISI9g &

‘AyuNWWOds jooyss ayz 03 Ajdde saBueys sy] Moy ajediuNWIWOD puke sasueYy jeuly Yysqnd “€

“paisnipe pue pamaraal ag {jim Wey) saiijod ay] Ayuap] § °Z

“WEIS adIjo je1]Ud2 ajeLIdoidde YIM sejepdn/sjuawysnipe papuawworad puke sajsjod JUsuIND MaIAaJ PU BUBAUIOD [j/eYys BaILUWOSQNS AD][Od JS AYL “T
‘Sdd LS NOLLDV

“AYUNWIWOD [OOYIS aU] 01 SE#ULYD Jo VOIEIUNUWLUOD Jed; ay] pue saloiod paynuep!
ul spew sa8ueys Aq peunseaw aq |JIM jeo8 sly, “suoneindas pue me] jesapaj/ajeys YUM aduedwos ul pue ajep-o}-dn aie Aay} ains aq 0} Sujwwelszoid
jeuoneonpe apiaoid 03 suejd yLASIP ay Loddns yey} salaijod sayWU0D |OoYIs alepdn pue MajAal e JINPUOD jJIM BaRILUWOD jooYrs aur “yzOZ euNs Ag

$80IJ0g JO UONIAXy yi JOWUO|W pue ‘a}eN]eAg ‘9as1aAQ pue Saldi}Od paysijqeisy.usJaAoy 07 Ajng O

“Aunwwos psiojswjeuD pue “uapuajULiadns ‘aayWLUOD jooUIS BY) JO suBquIaLU dy} US@amyaq pue ZuoWe
Suluoouny pue uoljediunuiwo0s srojduil 0} papuayul ase sea |OOUIS HZOZ-EZOT BU} 40} S|2OS ad1}DeId jeuoissajoid Say PUWUILWOD |OOYIS SUIMO]{O} BYL
JUSWISyeIg UOISsiPY

S[EOS a21N2bAg [BUOISSEJOAY S,2a}}1WIWUO}.[OO4IS

Marblehead School Committee

MARBLEHE AD 9 Widger Road,

Marblehead, MA 01945
PUBLIC SCHOOLS phone: 781.639.3140 x10414

email:schoolcommittee@marbleheadschools.org

Jennifer Schaeffner Melissa Ciucas Al Williams Kate Schmeckpeper Henry Gwazda

Committee Member Committee Member Chairman Vice-Chairman Secretary

Domestic Violence Awareness Month- October 2025

WHEREAS domestic violence is a pervasive issue that affects individuals of all ages, backgrounds, and
communities, with lasting and profound effects on survivors, families, and society as a whole; and

WHEREAS, the month of October is nationally recognized as Domestic Violence Awareness Month, a time to
raise awareness, educate communities, and promote prevention efforts to end sexual violence; and

WHEREAS, according to national statistics, one in three women and one in ten men experience some form
of domestic violence in their lifetime, highlighting the urgent need for awareness, support, and action; and

Whereas organizations such as HAWC - Healing Abuse Working for Change, the National Sexual Violence
Resource Center, and local crisis centers provide vital services, advocacy, and education to support survivors
and prevent future incidents; and

WHEREAS every member of our community can play a role in preventing domestic violence by promoting a
culture of respect, consent, and safety, and by standing in solidarity with survivors; and

WHEREAS the Marblehead Public Schools joins advocates, survivors, and organizations across the nation
in recognizing the importance of Domestic Violence Awareness Month and affirms its commitment to supporting
survivors and working toward a future free from sexual violence.

NOW, THEREFORE, we, the Marblehead School Committee, do hereby proclaim October 2025 as
Domestic Violence Awareness Month in the Marblehead Public Schools and encourage all our community
members to participate in activities, educational programs, and initiatives that raise awareness and foster a
community dedicated to ending domestic violence.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have hereunto set our hand this.15" day of October 2025.

Sincerely,

Al Willlams- School Committee Chalr

Kate Schmeckpeper -Vice-Chair Jennifer Schaeffner- Commitles Member

Henry Gwazda - Committee Member Melissa Clucas - Committee Member

The School Committee is responsible to the people for whose benefit the school system has been
established. The Committee's current decisions will influence the course of education in our schools for
years to come. The Committee and each of its members musi look to the future and to the needs of all
people more than the average cilizen finds necessary. This requires a comprehensive perspective and long-
range planning in addition to attention to immediate goncerns,

The Schoo! Committee's primary responsibility is to establish those purposes, programs, and procedures
that will best produce the educational achievement needed by our students, The Committee is charged
with accomplishing this while also being responsible for wise management of resources available to the
school system. The Committee must fulfill these responsibilities by functioning primarily as a legislative
body to formulate and adopt policy, by selecting an executive officer to implement policy, and by
evaluating the results. It must carry out ifs functions openty, while seeking the comments of the public,

SCHOOL COMMITTEE OPERATIONAL GOALS

sludents, and staff in its decision-making processes.

In accordance with these principles, the technique will involve:

5.

Periodically setting performance objectives for the School Committee itself and evaluating
their accomplishment.

Setting objectives for performance for each position and function in the system.
Allowing the people responsible for carrying out objectives to have a role in setting them.

Establishing practical and SMART. (Specific Measurable, Achievable Relevant Time-bound
goals,

Conducting a periodic review of performance against these goals.

CROSS REF.: ADA, School District Goals and Objectives

SOURCE: = MASC/Marblehcad

Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated NN/NXP2S

CBcteted: prableas

(Formatted: Font cotor: Auto

AS

C. Deteted: simple

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

‘CRormatted: Font colar: Aule

‘Formatted: Font color: Auto

(CRormatted: Font color: Auto

\, Formatted: Font cator: Auta

‘(C_ Deleted: concrete and

VAAMAAMA

File: BBAA

SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEMBER AUTHORITY

Authority
Because all powers of the Schoo! Committee derived from state laws are granted in terms of action as a
group, members of the School Committee have authority only when acting as a Committee legally in

session.

The School Commitice will not be bound in any way by any statement or action on the part of an individual
member except when such statement or action is a result of specific instructions of the Committee.

No member of the Committee, by virtue of his/her office, will exercise any administrative responsibility
with respect to the schoo}s or command the services of any school employee.

The School Committee will function as a body and all policy decisions and other matters, as required by
law, will be settled by an official vote of the Committee sitting in formal session.

Duties
The duties and obligations of the individual Committee member may be enumerated as follows:

1. To become familiar with the General Laws of the Commonwealth relating to education and School
Committee operations, regulations of the Massachusetts Board of Education, policies and
procedures of this School Committee and School Department.

2. To keep abreast of new laws and the latest trends in education.

3. To have a general knowledge of the goals, objectives, and programs of the district

4. To work effectively with other Committee members without trying either to dominate the
Committee or neglect his/her share of the work.

5. To respect the privileged communication that exists in executive sessions by maintaining strict
confidentiality on matters discussed in these sessions, except that which becomes part of the public
record, once it has been approved for release.

6, To vote and act in Committee impartially for the good of all students.

7. To accept the will of the majority vote in all cases, and to remember that he/she is one of a team

and must abide by, and carry out, all Committee decisions once they are made.

1 of 2

Marblehead Public Schoals — Approved 10/18/18; updated NN/XN/AN.

C_ Deleted: town's public schools

(Formatted: Font cotor: Auto

C_neteted: the

CRormatted: Font color: Auto

LAL

File: BBAA

8. To represent the Committee and the schools to the public in a way that promotes interest
and support.

9. To refer questions and complaints to the proper school authorities.

10. To comply with the accepted code of ethics for School Committee members.

SOURCE: MASC/Marbichead

2of 2

Marblehead Public Schools ~ Approved 10/18/18; updated NN/XX/XX,
je; BBBA/BBBB

SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEMBER QUALIFICATIONS/OATH OF OFFICE

In order to serve on the School Committee, an individual must be a registered voter in the town from
which he/she is elected or appointed and must (ake an oath of office as required by law.

Each new member will present to the Committee secretary official certification of having sworn the oath
before an officer duly qualified to administer oaths prior to entering on his/her official duties as a member
of the Committee.

From the Municipal or District Clerk, newly qualified Committee members, by law, receive, and sign a
receipt for, a copy of the Massachusetts open meeting law governing the conduct of Committee meetings
in general and executive sessions in particular.

Newly qualified Committee members shall, by law, receive and sign a receipt for, within 30 days of taking
office, a copy of the Massachusetts Ethics Commission’s Summary of the Conflict of Interest laws. As
municipal employees, all School Committee members shall receive a copy of said summary annually. All
School Conmnittee members shall, within 30 days of taking office, and every 2 years thereafter, complete
the Massachusetts Ethics Commission's online training program. Upon completion of the online training
program, members shall provide notice of such completion to be retained for 6 years by the Municipal or
District Clerk,

‘Established by law

SOURCE: MASC ; Updated 2022,
LEGAL REFS.: M.G.L. 30A:20; 41:1; 41:107; 76:5; 268A:27-28;

Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated XN/AX2S,

to race, color, sex, religion, national origin, gender identity

Deleted: Membership on a School Cormmittee is nut limited
ae sexual orientation,

« Detetea:

(Deleted: July 2016

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

NP andl

File: BBBC
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEMBER RESIGNATION
A current School Committee member who submits a resignation to the town clerk and School Committee

Chair terminates Schoo! Committee duties at the time of such resignation unless a {ater time is stated in
the resignation.

Should a School Committee member move out of the town or District in which they, hold, office, that _

member shall be deemed to have vacated the office.

Established by law
SOURCE: MASC — Updated 2022,
‘LEGAL REFS: M.G.L. 41:2; 41:109

(Doteted: he or she

(Detetear s

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

LALA

(CPormatted: Font color Aulo

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

LAAS

(Deleted: SOURCE: MASC/Marblehwad

Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated XX/XX22S
le: BBBE

UNEXPIRED TERM FULFILLMENT
When a vacancy on the School Committee occurs for any reason, the Select, Board and the remaining
members of the Committee share the responsibility for filling it.

As provided in the law, the School Committee will notify the Sefect Board, that a vacancy has been created
within 30 days after it has occurred. Afler one week's notice has been given by the Committee to the Select,

bodies will meet to fill the vacancy by roll call vote.

For election to fill a vacancy, a candidate must receive a majority of the votes of the officers entitled to
vote, The person so elected will fill the seat on the Committee until the next town election, at which time
a member will be elected to serve the remainder of the term, if any.

SOURCE: MASC ~ Undated 2022, _

‘LEGAL REFS MG. at

Marblehead Public Schools ~ Approved 10/18/18; updated XX/NX@25

(Deleted: Board of

(Deleted: men

(Formatted: Font color, Auto

~~ (Deleted: men

(Formatted: Font calor: Auto

(Formatted: Font calor; Aute

(Deteted: men

LAAAAAM

(Formattea: Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Font calor: Auto

LAA

(Detetea: SOURCE: MASC/Marbichead

File: BEDH

BEDH - PUBLIC COMMENT AT SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETINGS

All regular and special meetings of the School Committee shall be open to the public. Executive
sessions will be held only as prescribed by the Statutes of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

The Schoo! Committee desires individuals to attend its meetings so that they may become better
acquainted with the operations and the programs of our local public schools. In addition, the
Committee would like the opportunity to hear public comment.

Public comment is not a discussion, debate, or dialogue between individuals and the School
Committee. It is an individual’s opportunity to express an opinion on issues within the School
Committee's authority.

To ensure the ability of the School Committee to conduct the District's business in an orderly
manner, the following rules and procedures are adopted:

1. At the start of each regularly scheduled School Committee meeting, individuals will
sign in for an opportunity to speak during public comment. The public comment segment
shall not exceed [5 minutes. All speakers are encouraged to present their remarks in a
respectful manner,

2. Speakers will be allowed up to three (3) minutes to present their material and
must begin their comments by stating their name and city/town. The presiding Chair
may permit extension of this time limit, in extenuating circumstances.

3. Topics for discussion should be limited to those items within the School Commiltee's
scope of authority. The authority of the School Committee primarily concerns the review
and approval of the budget of the district's public schools, the performance of the
Superintendent, and the educational goals and policies of the district's public schools.
Comments and complaints regarding school personnel (apart from the Superintendent) or
students are generally prohibited unless those comments and complaints concern matters
within the scope of School Committee authority, Although no member of the community
will be denied the right to bring their complaints to the Committee, they will be referred
through the proper administrative channels in accordance with Policy KE (Public
Complaints) for solution before investigation or action by the Committee. Exceptions will
be made when the complaints concern Committee actions or Committee operations only.

4, The Chair of the meeting, afler a warning, reserves the right to terminate speech

which is not constitutionally protected because it constitules true threats that are likely lo ; C Deleieds ov contains ubscenities
provoke a violent reaction and cause a breach of the peace, or incitement to imminent & PRormatted: Font Bold, Hale Font color: Custom
lawless conduct, | ColofRGBG2,36,41))

(Formatted: Font: Bold, lalic, Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Font: 11 pt, Font color: Auto

LAA_AY

Marblehead Public Schools ~ Approved 5/18/2023; updated XX/XX/25, . &

a —
5. Written comments longer than three (3) minutes may be presented to the presiding
Chair before or after the meeting. All remarks will be addressed through the Chair of
the meeting. Comments made during the public comment portion of the meeting do not

necessarily reflect the views or positions of the School Committee,

6. Sign up instructions will be provided for those who wish to participate in Public

Comment.

LEGAL REFS.: M.G.L. 30A:; 18-25
CROSS REFS: BE, SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETINGS

BEC, EXECUTIVE SESSIONS

BEDA, NOTIFICATION OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETINGS

SOURCE: MASC - Updated, 2023,

Marblehead Public Schools ~ Approved 5/18/2023; updated XX/XX/25,

rs

(Releted: Reviewed

(Dateted: 2

2
)

~ (Deleted: Marblehead Public Schoots -Approved 5/18/2023)

Formatted: Font: Bold, Halic, Font color: Custom
/ (Cotor(RGBG2,36,41))

Formatted: Font: Bold, Malic, Font colar: Auto

(Formatted: Font: 11 pt, Font colar: Auto

LAA

SCHOOL COMMITTEE POLICY DEVELOPMENT

The Schoo! Committee will develop policies and put them in writing so that they may serve as guides for
the discretionary action of those to whom it delegates authority.

The formulation and adoption of these written policies will constitute the basic method by which the
School Committee will exercise its leadership in providing for the successful and efficient functioning of
the school system. Through the study and evaluation of reports concerning the execution of its policies,
the School Committee will exercise its control over school operation.

Deleted: The Scho! Commiittee accepts the definition af
policy set forth by the Natianal School Boards Association:

Policies are principles adopted by a School Committee (o chart a course of action, They tell what is«

wanted; they may include why and how much. Policies shoutd be broad enough to indicate a line of action “” CDeteted: 7 )
to be followed by the administration in meeting day-to-day problems, yet be specific enough to give clear (Formatted: indent: Left: 0” )
guidance,

The policies of the Schoot Committee are framed, and are meant to be interpreted, in terms of state law,
regulations of the Massachusetts Board of Education, and other regulatory agencies of the various levels
of government.

SOURCE; MASC,= Updated 2022, (Deleted: Marbfehead )
(Formatted: Foot color: Auto )

Marblehead Public Schools ~ Approved 10/18/18; updated NX/XX2S
POLICY REVISION AND REVIEW

In an effort to keep its written policies up to date so that they can be used consistently as a basis for School
Committee action and administrative decision, the Committee will review its policies on a regular basis.

Jn its review, dhe Committee will evaluate how the policies have been implemented, It will consider. (ieteted: T

feedback from school staff, students, and the communily when revising policies, as appropriate, \ (Dace exceuted by the sehaol staff and will weigh the
results:

The Superintendent is expected to call {o the attention of the Committec,all policies that are out of date or

(Formatted: Funt calor: Auto

for other reason appear to need revision. (Formatted: Font cater: Auto

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

\ Weteteat rely on the

 { Deteted: for providing evidence of the effeet uf the policies
4 Gi ilithas adopted

SOURCE MASC,— Updated 2022,

“Formatted: Font color: Auto

iven the continuing commission of calling to

2's attention

Formatted; Font color: Auto

Deleted: The School Committee directs the Superintendent
to periodically recall atl policy and regulations manuals for
actministrative updating and Committee review,

(Detetea i

“Deleted: Marblehead

(Formatted: Font eator: Auto

LALA A_ AA AAA AAA Aci ed

Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated XX/XAX/S

File: BHE

USE OF ELECTRONIC MESSAGING BY SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEMBERS

As elected public officials, School Committee members shalt exercise caution when communicating
between and among themselves via electronic messaging services including, but not limited to, electronic
mail (e-mail), text messages, social media postings, internet web forums, and internet chat rooms.

Under the Open Meeting Law, deliberation by a quorum of members constitutes a meeting. Deliberation
is defined as movement toward a decision including, but not limited to, the sharing of an opinion regarding
business over which the Committee has supervision, control, or jurisdiction. A quorum may be arrived at
scquentially using clectronic messaging without knowledge and intent by the author.

Schoo! Committee members should use electronic messaging between and among members only for
housekeeping purposes such as requesting or communicating agenda items, meeting times, or meeting
dates, Electronic messaging should not be used to discuss Committee matters that require public
discussion under the Open Meeting Law,

Under the Public Records Law, electronic messages between public officials may be considered public
records, Therefore, in order fo ensure compliance,the district shal! provide district e-mail addresses, which
are archived, 7 7

SOURCE: ___MASC,~ Updated 2023,

LEGAL REFS.: M.G.L.4:7; 30A:18-25, 23B; 66:10

CROSS REF: EHB — DATA/RECORDS RETENTION,

Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; undated XX/XX/25,

¢-—~-- Formatted: Justified, Right: 0.25", Space Before: 12 pt,
Line spacing: Mulliple 0.87 fi

]

a, (ieeted:,

2

Deleted: the School Committee Chair, in consuttation with
the Superintendent of Schoots, shail annually designate a
member of the central office staff who shat be copied on
afl electronic mail correspondence between and among
piembers of the Schoal Committee, or

Deleted: These copies shalt be printed and retained in the
central office in the same fashion as any other School
Committee records, Schoot Committce members who do
nal have a computer ar access (o these messages shall be
provided copies on a timely basis.

(Deleted: 4

Deleted: July 2016

| (Farmatted: Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Font cotvr: Auto

LAAAA

SCHOOL COMMITTEE CONFERENCES, CONVENTIONS, AND WORKSHOPS

To provide continuing in-service training and development for its members, the School Committee
encourages the participation of all members at appropriate School Committee conferences, workshops and
conventions, However, in order to control both the mvestment of time and funds necessary to implement
this policy, the Committee establishes these principles and procedures for its guidance:

1. The School Committee gwill, be made aware of School Committee conferences, conyentions and

workshops. The Committee will periodically decide which meetings appear lo be most promising
in terms of producing direct and indirect benefits to the school district,

2. Funds for participation at such meetings will be budgeted for on an annual basis. When funds are
limited, the Committee will designate which of its members would be the most appropriate to
participate at a given meeting.

3. Reimbursement to Committee members for their travel expenses will be in accordance with the
travel reimbursement policy.

4. When a conference, convention, or workshop is not attended by the full Committee, those who do

participate will be requested to share information, recommendations and materials acquired at the
meeting.

SOURCE: MASC - Updated 2022,

(_ Dateted: shall

‘ant color: Auto

systemt

Formatted: Font color, Aulo.

Coew

(Deleted: fuly 2016

LEGAL REF.: M.G.L. 40:5

CROSS REES.: BID, School Committee Member Compensation and Expenses
DKC, Expense Reimbursements

Marblehead Public Schoots — Approved 10/18/18; updated XN/XX/25

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

VAL

File: BID

SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEMBER COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES

The School Committee shall serve without compensation.No member of she, School Committee ghall be
eligible for paid employment within, the Marblehead Pyblic Srhools therein, or in any union school or
superintendency union or district in which Marblehead participates, . __

Upon submitting vouchers and supporting bills for expenses incurred in carrying out specific services
previously authorized by the Committee, members may be reimbursed from school funds.

Reimbursable expenses may include the cost of attendance at conferences of School Committee
associations and other professional meetings or visitations when such attendance and expense payment
has had prior School Committce approval.

SOURCE; MASC — Updated 2022,
‘LEGAL REFS; M.G.L. 40:5; 71:32
‘CROSS REFS. BIBA, School Committee Conferences, Conventions, and Workshop:

<-> (Formatted: Justified, Right: 0.25", Space Before: 0 pt
< (Formatted: Font color: Auto

Deleted: , except that a member of a School Committee of
a city, town, regional school district or superintendency
anion may be compensated for hisher services by a
majority vole of the ily council in a cily having a Plan D or
Plan E charter; ina city not

| (Deleted: i

Deleted: having a Plan D or Plan E charter by vote of the
city council, subject to the provisions of the charter of such
a city; ina town by a majority vote at a town meeting; and
ina regional school district or schoal superintendency by a
majority vole of the voting member towns authorized al
their respective Lown meetings, the amount of such
compensation, in each case, to he set by the respective
cities, towns oF groups of towns.

SY,

Formatted: Font color, Auto

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

Marblehead Public Schools ~ Approved 10/18/18; updated XX/XN/25

| |. Deleted: to the position of teacher, or Superintendent of
© (Deleted: p

(Detected: s

(CPormatted: Font cotor: Auto

(Formatted: Funt color: Auto

(Deleted: hischer town

(Dateted: 5

(Formatted: Font color: Auto

(Formatted: Font color: Auto
(Fermatted: Font color: Avto
+ (Formatted: Font calor: Auto

(CPormatted: Pent color: Auto

Formatted: Fent color Auto

' (Formatted: Font color; Auto
(Meteted: SOURCE MASC/Marblehead

CECCCeeECeCCeeCCCeE

File: BK
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIPS
The Committee may maintain memberships in the national, state and regional School Committees
(boards) associations and take an active part in the activities of these groups.

It may also maintain institutional memberships in other educational organizations, which the executive
officer and Committee find to be of benefit to members and personnel.

The materials and benefits of institutional memberships may be distributed and used to the best advantage

of the Committee and the staff.

SOURCE: MASC/Marblehead

Marblehead Public Schools - Approved 10/18/18
