DATE POSTED:

Town Clerk Use Only

AEC -2 PH 2: be

AMENDED AGENDA

POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 30A § 20 Act relative to extending certain COVID-19 measures
adopted during the state of emergency

Marblehead School Committee
warblenead scnool Committee
Name of Board or Committee

Address: Marblehead High School Library 2 Humphrey Street Marblehead MA 01945
OR

Zoom Conference: https://marbleheadschools-

org.zo0m.us/j/97886762817 2pwd=ShT6kswajlCtb] VaC2uY On| pdiv7fE. 1

Meeting ID: 978 8676 2817

Password: 610612

Dial in Phone +1 646 931 3860 US

| Thursday December 04 2025 6:00PM
Day of Week Month Date Year Time

Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

L Initial Business: Call to Order
a. Pledge of Allegiance

b. Commendations

c. Public Comment

d. Student Representative

I, District Updates ~ Supt. John Robidoux
a. Superintendent Update
b. Financial & Budget Process Update

TH. Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills (vote)
b. Meeting Minutes: (1 1/20/2025) (vote)
c. Policy Updates (vote)

i. EB: Safety Program
ii. EBB: First Aid
iii, EBC: Emergency Plans
iv. EEA: Student Transportation Services
v. EEAE: School Bus Safety Program
IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

Proposal for Savanah Gatchell Memorial Bench (vote)
Naming of Auditorium Update
School Start & End Times Update
Enrollment Discussion (Revised 12/02/2025 )
Policy Updates
i. EEAA:; Transportation of Regular Education Students (vote)
ii, EEAG: Student ‘Transportation in Private Vehicles (vote)
f. New Policies, second readings
i. ECAB: Access to Buildings and Grounds
ii, EFBA: School Food and Nutrition -- Meal Modifications
iii. EFE: Civil Rights Complaint Policy for Child Nutrition Programs
iv. EHAA: District Security Relating to Technology
v. EHB: Data and Records Retention
vi. IXFE: Competency Determination
g. Next steps strategic planning and elevating educator voices goals (vote)
h, January Meeting Calendar Updates
i. Sub Committee & Liaison Updates

SRO op

V. Closing Business
a, Correspondence

VI. Motion and vote to meet in executive session for the following reasons:

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a}(3), “Purpose 3”, to discuss potential litigation by
former administrator, J. Buckey, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position
of the Schoo! Committee and the Chair so declares.

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(2), Purpose (2) to conduct collective bargaining
session with Marblehead Education Association, specifically to hear a Step Three grievance regarding the
Lead Teacher Stipend, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return to open session,

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3), Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to
collective bargaining, specifically to deliberate regarding a response to the Step Three grievance regarding
the Lead Teacher Stipend, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return to open session.

Chair’s Statement following roll call vote on the motion:

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 2] (a)(3), “Purpose 3”, to discuss potential litigation by
former administrator, J. Buckcy, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position
of the Schoo! Committee and the Chair so declares.

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(2), Purpose (2) to conduct collective bargaining
session with Marblehead Education Association, specifically to hear a Step Three grievance regarding the
Lead Teacher Stipend, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return to open session.
Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3), Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to
collective bargaining, specifically to deliberate regarding a response to the Step Three grievance regarding
the Lead Teacher Stipend, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return to open session.

VIL Executive Session

Adjournment

Hybrid Meeting Notice: Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person at 2 Humphrey Street
Marblehead MA 01945 or by the remote zoom connection provided. Please note that the in-person meeting
will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the remote connection.

THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Chairperson: Al Williams
Posted by: Al Williams
Date: 12/2/25
POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF MGL 30A § 20

MEETING NOTICE

DATE POSTED:

Town Clerk Use Only

Act relative to extending certain COVED-19 measures
adopted during the state of emergency

Marblehead School Committee

Name of Board or Committee

Address: Marblehead High School Library 2 Humphrey Street Marblehead MA 01945

OR

Zoom Conference: https://marbleheadschools-
org.200m us/j/978867628 17 ?pwd=ShT6kswailCib] VaC2uy On| pdiv7fE, |

Meeting ID: 978 8676 2817

Password: 610612

Dial in Phone +1 646 931 3860 US

December

04

2025

6:00PM

Thursday
Day of Week

Month

Date

Year

Time

Agenda or Topics to be discussed listed below (That the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed)

1 Initial Business: Call to Order

b

a. Pledge of Allegiance
. Commendations

c. Public Comment
d, Student Representative

U. District Updates — Supt. John Robidoux
a. Superintendent Update
b. Financial & Budget Process Update

I Consent Action and Agenda Items

a. Schedule of Bills
b. Meeting Minutes: (11/20/2025)
c. Policy Updates

1
ii.
iii,
iv.
v.

EB: Safety Program

EBB: First Aid

EBC: Emergency Plans
EEA; Student Transportation Services
EEAE: School Bus Safety Program

(vote)
(vote)
(vote)

IV. School Committee Communication and Discussion Items

a. Proposal for Savanah Gatchell Memorial Bench (vote)

b. Naming of Auditorium Update

ce. School Start & End Times Update

d. Policy Updates
i. EEAA: Transportation of Regular Education Students (vote)
ii, EEAG: Student Transportation in Private Vehicles (vote)

e. New Policies, second readings
i. ECAB: Access to Buildings and Grounds
ii. EFBA: School Food and Nutrition -- Meal Modifications
iii, EFE: Civil Rights Complaint Policy for Child Nutrition Programs
iv. EHAA: District Security Relating to Technology
v. EHB: Data and Records Retention
vi. IKFE: Competency Determination
f. Next steps strategic planning and elevating educator voices goals (vote)
g. January Meeting Calendar Updates
h. Sub Committee & Liaison Updates

Vv. Closing Business
a. Correspondence

VI. Motion and vote to meet in executive session for the following reasons:

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3), “Purpose 3”, to discuss potential litigation by
former administrator, J. Buckey, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position
of the Schoo! Committee and the Chair so declares.

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(2), Purpose (2) to conduct collective bargaining
session with Marblehead Education Association, specifically to hear a Step Three grievance regarding the
Lead Teacher Stipend, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return to open session.

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3), Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to
collective bargaining, specifically to deliberate regarding a response to the Step Three grievance regarding
the Lead Teacher Stipend, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return to open session.

Chair’s Statement following roll call vote on the motion:

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3), “Purpose 3”, to discuss potential litigation by
former administrator, J. Buckey, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position
of the Schoo! Committee and the Chair so declares.

Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(2), Purpose (2) to conduct collective bargaining
session with Marblehead Education Association, specifically to hear a Step Three grievance regarding the
lead Teacher Stipend, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return to open session.
Executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3), Purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to
collective bargaining, specifically to deliberate regarding a response to the Step ‘Three grievance regarding
the Lead Teacher Stipend, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
School Committee and the Chair so declares without intent to return to open session.

VII. Executive Session

Adjournment
Hybrid Meeting Notice: Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person at 2 Humphrey Street
Marblehead MA 01945 or by the remote zoom connection provided. Please note that the in-person meeting

will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the remote connection.

THIS AGENDA IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Chairperson: Al Williams
Posted by: AL Williams
Date: 122/25
Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-3140

John Robidoux Julia Ferreira LisaMarie Ippolito Michael Pfifferling
Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of — Assistant Superintendent of Assistant Superintendent of
Teaching & Learning Student Services Finance & Operations
MEMORANDUM
TO: Marblehead School Committee
FROM: Michael Pfifferling, Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations
DATE: December 2, 2025
RE: Schedule of Bills for Approval

Included in this packet are the following Schedules of Bills for your consideration. The schedules and
invoices have been uploaded to the shared drive.

Schedule Amount
A26-—13-FAC-LM $13,861.24
A26 - 20—- DW — MSR $89,092.98
A26—20-FAC—LM $11,248.54
A26-20-—FS-—CF-A $38,808.57
A26- 20—FS—CF-B $9,870.00
A26—-—20-SS—KG $210,405.87

A26-~- 21—FAC—LM $30,440.62

Total $403,727.82

Suggested Motion:
Motion to approve the identified schedules of bills totaling $403,727.82
Marblehead Public Schools

9 Widger Road
Marblehead, Massachusetts 01945
Phone: (781) 639-3140

Jolin Robidoux Julia Ferreira LisaMarie Ippolito Michael Pfifferling
Superintendent of Schools Assistant Superintendent of — Assistant Superintendent of Assistant Superintendent of
Teaching & Learning Student Services Finance & Operations
MEMORANDUM

TO: Marblehead School Committee

FROM: Michael Pfifferling, Assistant Superintendent for Finance & Operations

DATE: December 2, 2025

RE: District Financial Report FY26

e There is little to report that differs from last month’s report. Our unexpended /
unencumbered balance is $3,272,187 at the end of November. This is $65,884 less than
what was reported as of the October 3 Ist report. This trend assists in identifying that
salaries have been manually encumbered with a high level of accuracy.

e The Salaries for the Student Services Administrative Team have been rectified to reflect the
amount of expenditures for both the Asst Superintendent and the Asst Director. This will
require journal adjustments, which are in process.

¢ There is a line of -$227,764 in the report (was there last month also) which needs to be
distributed among various salary lines. This line was placed in the FY26 budget to identify
savings due to retirements / attrition. I will make budget adjustments as soon as we are fully

on the Munis system in January.

Attached is the line-by-line report for FY26 expenditures vs budget.

Respectfully submitted,

oN RA
OVyodd) sunposr ‘Aq pajuesaig

"S}006 PsOMo} ssai6Houd pun ‘sijinseu
BIQOINSDALW. ‘S3[QO4dASP. PALS{UWOd JO MalAISAO

MYOM HNO WOUd SLINSAY AIy

AUeUUILUNS
SS8LUOSINO As/uns |

pooupliuo hex

JOOUDS YISHEAZ 10 JE1USD POOYpIIYD Ailyos uD
BUIADY U! ISSISJU! SAUNWWWOD POSYa|quol Sui NOD fispuns

ANO O} SOSUOMSS IUDISLP G/ SAZUDLULUNS UOlpuaseid siy |

LOIVdWI HLIM MYOM ONINSINV

dleosy herun

AL 21905 posys|qJOW so

Jam so sHbodqam saul] posya|quo~, eu} uO 1 Bulsod fq
Aaauns siu} Buloddns 10} Uapudjg yBleq] 0} NOA yUuDYUL
"UINS JBQUISAON UO pspuse

PUD ,,C] JOQUUSAON UO AyUNWUWOD 9y} O} AjjUanbans
PUD SdI|ILUDJ POSYS[QUOW O} INO JUSS SOM fisAUNS SUL

éALINNWWOD SHL OL LNAS SVM AZAXNS AHL MOH

(fijddo 1OU} j}O:1Dsjas) ¢Ul Paisaualul 1sOLW

q noi pinom buiwiwoi6o0id jo edfil 1OUM

25-0 S860 usupyiyd

aany noi oq

(GE) %ZG SUIBOIg JO|PpoL

(O€) %Or 1OOYOSe1g AeQ-J}}2H

ON %2E

(GG) %E'EL JOOUDSaIq Ae T1N4

SAA %89

sesuodsey S/

sasuodsay of

synsoy

YS, SOBIO J9Y1O |IV
“MOUSWOS OS OP 0}
Aywunuioddo ue sey spy YUM SUDIOM U! Pa{setejU! SJUaPNIs OS syeloads JaljO
Spl} 8q Spl} 1987 SUON e
(a]}doad ¢€) Bulpying ay} jas ‘ Weigold ON

“UMO} UI SAIIWeJ O} 10440
01 Sulu} aWOSaMe Ue dq P]NOM Fs AUIYI | ING ‘eJoWAUe }OOYDSe/Jd PasuU 1,UOM | e

SSITANOe/SWUIeIZO1d jOOYDS JAW

“JUOO SIINSOY NSAUNS

\
Aes

08 0g ov 0g

(%€°Z5) Eb

(%2°0€) €@—

(%92) LG¢-—

(%2°29) Ly—~

(%€' 8) L9—

(%8r) 9e—

Buss peseg Aeldy
BuiwmuesBolg salsnjou|
HeIS peousuedxy
wininowng Awend UBIq
UOHIN] SIqeployy

uoHed07] jUSIUSAUOD

sasuodsal G/
(saajouo sai) doy

INOA 3O9]aS) {49]Uag pooypyiyD Aey sy} ul pylyo 4NOA jjosua 01 NOA abeinooue pinom sioyoes EU

(sed10yd seuy} do} uNOA 19/85) édajue)
Pooyp|lyD AJOF a42 ul! P[YD sNOA |josus

01 NOA aHounosue PINOM SJOJDOY JOUM
sYOLov4

SOLU0DINO
OU} pulled

(%9) Sh—

(%Ph) SE—"

(%2'92) 02-

(%Z'0L) 8—~

(%EL) b—
(%€°L) I
(%EL) b—-
(%€L) L—
(%EL) b—~
(%EL) b—
(%E'L) L—
(%EL) b—-
(%EL) L—
(%E°L) b—
(%E"L) b—
(%EL) L—

(%L1°C) C—~

(%1'9) G8

-Apeaye ele spry sepjo Aw yy
"so, UBnous Buoy aq Ht PINOAA
“""g QIOLU USAS PSOU ],UOP SPIy
aaisnjoul Buleg JON

“""] pjo 00} Apjussino si pylyo Aw
“"u op susAhed xe] peayajquey|
SUON

"JUL INOA SI OUM:LUSOUOO ule
""USLedXS Su} S11 LUPIP OM JI
“sn aq JOU pjnoUs Sexe} UMO}
eN

SSOID PIAEG pue BIpUueS

WN

pebueue Apeoie sieopyiud
“el Boid ayeauid 10} soUsIeJold
syoIyuog Buljnpeyos
uoneyodsuely

}80D

(SDIOYO OM} Ol INOA Oojas) éSUIQOUOD UIEW
INOA se JEUM ‘pjlYO ANOA Sul|jOJUS JOPISUOD 30U 4

SLINS3Y G3ATVLAG

YOd LNOGNVH 3H 33S ASV3I1d

As/uNnsS 3un
LUO. SIUSISU|

File: EB
SAFETY PROGRAM

Accidents are undesirable, unplanned occurrences that can result in tragic consequences—bedilyharnr—
. The School Committee will guard

against such occurrences ae taking precautions to ‘protect the safety of all students, employees, visitors
and others present on school property or at school-sponsored events.

The Committee will comply with safety requirements established by governmental authorities and will
insist that its staff adhere to recommended safety practices as these pertain, for example, to the school
facilityplant, special areas of instruction, student transportation, school sports and occupational safety.

The practice of safety will also be considered a facet of the instructional program of the schools.
Instruction will include accident prevention as well as fire prevention; emergency procedures; traffic,
bicycle, and pedestrian safety.

The Superintendent will have overall responsibility for the safety program of the school districtsystem.
It will be the responsibility of the Superintendent to see that appropriate staff members are kept
informed of current state and local requirements relating to fire prevention, health andeivil-defernse—

sanitation public-health-and-occupational safety.

Efforts directed toward the prevention of accidents will succeed only to the degree that all staff members
recognize that preventing accidents is a daily operational responsibility.

LEGAL REF.: M.G.L. 71:55C
603 CMR 36:00

CROSS REFS.: EEAE, School Bus Safety Program

GBGB, Staff Personal Security and Safety
IHAM, Health Education
JLI, Student Safety

SOURCE: MASC/Marblehead

Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated XX/XX/25
FIRST AID

The district attempts to provide a safe environment. If an accident or sudden illness occurs, school
personnel will administer first aid and, if warranted, call emergency medical services. In the case of
illness that may include an infectious disease the Board of Healthscheel-physician shall be notified in
accordance with law.

First aid is defined as the immediate and temporary care given in case of an accident or sudden illness,
which enables the studentehild to be taken safely home or to a physician. It does not include diagnosis
or treatment. Any care beyond first aid will not be given.

At each school, procedures will be developed for the proper handling of an injury to, or sudden illness
of, a studentehild or staff member. These will be made known to the staff and will incorporate the
following requirements:

1.

2.

SOURCE:

The school nurse or another trained person will be responsible for administering first aid.

When the nature of an illness or an injury appears in any way serious, every effort will be
made to contact the parent and/or family physician immediately.

In extreme emergencies, the school nurse, school physician or Principal may make
arrangements for immediate transport to a hospital of injured or ill students, contacting
parent or guardian in advance if at all possible.

The teacher or other staff member to whom a studentehild is responsible at the time an
accident occurs will make out a report on an official form providing details about the
accident. This will be required for every accident for which first aid is given.

All accidents to students and staff members will be reported as soon as possible to the
Superintendent and, if the Superintendent deems appropriate, to the School Committee.

MASC 2022August

2046 LEGAL REFS.:M.G.L. 71:55A; 71:56

CROSS REF.:

JLC, Student Health Services and Requirements

Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated XX/XX/25
EMERGENCY PLANS

Advance planning for emergencies and disasters is essential to provide for the safety of students and
staff; it also strengthens the morale of all concerned to know that plans exist and that students and staff
have been trained in carrying out the plans.

The Superintendent will develop and maintain plans that meet the requirements of state law for
preparedness in case of fire, civil emergencies, and natural disasters.

The Superintendent shall develop, in consultation with schoo! nurses, school physicians, athletic
coaches, trainers, and local police, fire and emergency personnel, an Emergency Medical Response Plan
for each school in the district. Each Plan shall include:

4. Amethod establishing a rapid communications system linking all parts of the school
campus, including outdoor facilities, to local Emergency Medical Services along with
protocols to clarify when EMS and other emergency contacts will be called.

2. Adetermination of EMS response times to any location on the campus.

3. A list of relevant contacts with telephone numbers and a protocol indicating when
each person shall be called, including names of experts to help with post-event
support.

4. A method to efficiently direct EMS personnel to any location on campus, including
the location of available rescue equipment.

5. Safety precautions to prevent injuries in classrooms and on the school campus.

6. A method of providing access to training in CPR and first aid for teachers, athletic
coaches, trainers, and other school staff which may include CPR training for High
School students; provided that School Committees may opt out of instruction in CPR
pursuant to Section 1 of Chapter 71.

ve Tin the-event-the-school possesses Automated External Defibritaters (AEDs), the
location of all available Automated External Defibrillators (AEDs), whether the
location is fixed or portable, and a list of personnel trained in its use.

The Superintendent shall annually review the response sequence with local police and fire

officials. Plans shall be submitted to local police and fire officials and the DESE at least every 3 years
by September 1 or when changes occur. Plans must be updated in the case of new construction or other
physical changes to the school campus.

1 of 2

Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated XX/XX/25
Building Principals will meet all requirements for conducting fire drills and Emergency Response drills
(at least once per year) to give students practice in moving with orderly dispatch to designated areas
under emergency conditions, and the staff practice in carrying out their assigned responsibilities for
building evacuation.

SOURCE: — MASC 2022August2045

LEGAL REF: M.G.L. 69:8A
Section 363 of Chapter 159 of the Acts of 2000

CROSS REF.: EBCD, Emergency Closings
JL, Student Welfare
JLC, Student Health Services and Requirements

2 of 2

Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated XX/XX/25
File: EEA
STUDENT TRANSPORTATION SERVICES

The major purpose of the school district'ssystem‘s transportation services is to aid students in getting
to and from school in an efficient, safe, and economical manner.

The school district maysysters—wil} contract for transportation services. The School Committee will
award contracts on a competitive bid basis. Bus contractors, 7D contractors and school districts-and-
taxi-eentractors, who will be held responsible for the safe operation of school buses, will comply with all
applicable state laws and regulations, including but not limited to:

1. Specifications for school bus design and equipment

2. Inspection of buses

3. Qualifications and examinations of bus drivers (including background checks)
4. Driving regulations

5. Small vehicle requirements, if applicable

6. Insurance coverage

q Adherence to local regulations and directives as specified in bid contracts

The Superintendent, working with the bus contractor and other appropriate administrators, will be
responsible for establishing bus schedules, routes, stops, and all other matters relative to the
transportation program.

LEGAL REFS:.: M.G.L. 40:5; 71:7A, B and C; 71:37D; 71:48A; 71:68; 71:71A; 71B:4; 71B:5;
71B:8; 74:8A; 76:1; 76:12Bi; 76:14
CROSS REF.: ADDA Background Checks
EEAA, Walkers and RidersTranspertation-of Regular Education-Students
SOURCE: MASC/Marblehead

Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated XX/XX/25
File: EEAA

WALKERS AND RIDERSTRANSPORTATION-OF REGULAR EDUCATION STUDENTS

Students will be entitled to transportation to and from school at the expense of the public schools when
such transportation conforms to applicable provisions of the Massachusetts General Laws.
Reimbursement to the school system for transportation costs is given by the Commonwealth, subject to
appropriation, only for (a) students living at least one and one half miles from school_and; (b) students
who live more than one mile from the nearest bus stop; t i

-and(e)-stidentsavith-specialneedstorvhont
transportation must-be-previded. Transportation must be provided for students with special needs

whose IEPs require it.

The District will provide transportation for all K-6 students living 2 miles or more from the school that
they attend. If space is available, the Superintendent shall use his/her discretion regarding the eligibility
of other K-6 students for bus transportation.

Exceptions to these guidelines may be made at the discretion of the Superintendent. This will apply
particularly to any student who must travel in a hazardous area to and from school. These students will
be transported regardless of the mileage limits listed.
LEGAL REFS:.: M.G.L. 40:5; 71:7A; 71:68; 71B:5
CROSS REF.: EEA, Student Transportation Services

EEAE, School Bus Safety Program

EEAEA, Bus Driver Examination and Training

EEAEC, Student Conduct on School Buses

SOURCE: Marblehead

Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated XX/XX/25
File: EEAE

SCHOOL BUS SAFETY PROGRAM

The safety and welfare of student riders will be the first consideration in all matters pertaining to
transportation. Safety precautions will include the following:

1.

StudentsChildren will be instructed as to the proper procedure for boarding and exiting from a
school bus and in proper and safe conduct while aboard.

2, EOn-bus-emergency evacuation drills will be conducted at least twice a year to acquaint student
riders with procedures in emergency situations.

3. All vehicles used to transport studentsehildren will be inspected periodically for conformance
with state and federal safety requirements.

4. Classroom instruction on school bus safety will be providedAlpupilstranspertedin-a—

5. All school buses rented or leased will have seat belts available for all passengers when possible.
The organizer of a field trip or an athletic event using buses shall certify on the field trip request
form that he or she has made a good faith effort to procure buses with seat belts.

6. Chaperones and District employees who accompany student riders on school buses will be
provided with information regarding the proper protocols for monitoring and promoting student
safetyon buses.

LEGAL REFS:.: M.G.L. 90:7B as amended by Ch. 246 Acts of 1986
M.G.L. 90:1 et seq.; 713:2; 713:7L
Highway Safety Program Standard No. 17

CROSS REF.: EB, Safety Program

SOURCE: MASC/Marblehead

Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated XX/XX/25
File: EEAG

STUDENT TRANSPORTATION IN PRIVATE VEHICLES

School buses will be used for the transportation of students participating in co-curricular or
extracurricular activities. However, when buses are not available, private vehicles may be permitted to
transport students to or from school activities that fall within the academic day or extend the school day
provided all of the following conditions are met:

1. The activity has the approval of the Superintendent of Schools.

2. The owner of the vehicle being used in transporting students must file evidence with the
Superintendent of personal liability insurance coverage on the vehicle in the amounts of
$100,000 - $300,000 or more.

3. The parents of students to be transported in this manner will be fully informed as to this
means of transportation and will sign a statement to this effect.

4. The driver and any non-student adult passenger will be subject to a satisfactory
CORI and/or background check in accordance with Massachusetts General Laws
and School Committee Policy.

SOURCE: MASC_= Updated 2022/Marblehead

Marblehead Public Schools — Approved 10/18/18; updated XX/XX/25
eal

ile: EFBA

|

SCHOOL FOOD AND NUTRITION - MEAL MODIFICATIONS

The School District is committed to complying with USDA nondiscrimination regulation
(7 CFR 15b) governing the Child Nutrition Program and DESE’s Office for Food and Nutrition
Programs requirements.

In compliance with USDA and DESE regulations, the District will provide substitutions to
the school food service program’s regular school meals at no extra cost for children who are unable
to eat meals served because of their disabilities or other special dietary reasons.

1. Our programs will ensure that school meals offered through the district meet the meal
pattern requirements set by the USDA.

2. We will make substitutions to meals at no extra charge for students with disabilities or
other special dietary reasons that restrict the student’s diet on a case-by-case basis.

3. Families must complete the necessary request form that can be provided by the School
Food and Nutrition Program staff, or accessed via in the link below.

LEGAL REF: USDA __SP 59-2016: Policy Memorandum _on__ Modifications _to
Accommodate Disabilities in the School Meal Programs and CACFP 14-
2017, SFSP 10-2017 Modifications to Accommodate Disabilities in the
Child and Adult Care , Program (SFSP) sponsors
DESE Meal Modifications in Child Nutrition Programs
Meal Modification Request Form

CROSS REF: STUDENT HANDBOOKS

Note: Program Operators/SFAs are encouraged but not required to consider children’s cultural,
religious, and ethnic preferences when planning and preparing meals. Variations must be
consistent with meal pattern regulations for children's meals to be eligible for reimbursement.

This information should be included in all student handbooks so that parents have
access/knowledge of this federal requirement.

SOURCE: MASC 2025
les]

ile: EHAA

DISTRICT SECURITY RELATING TO TECHNOLOGY

The protection of sensitive data and technology is vital in supporting teaching and learning through
access to resources, information, learning activities, interpersonal communications, research,
training, collaboration, curriculum, and materials.

The School Committee recognizes data and information as resources that must be protected from
unauthorized access or use, and, as such, supports a balance of security and access. The Committee
expects district staff, student, and family data to be protected by adequate controls commensuration
with the sensitivity of the data.

The Committee directs the Superintendent to develop and maintain an effective district data

protection system of procedures for the protection of sensitive district information. Such
procedures should protect the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of district information.

SOURCE: MASC 2023
File: EHB

DATA AND RECORDS RETENTION

The School Committee recognizes that, as an entity of local government, every District record is
presumed to be public unless it may be withheld under a specific exemption. The custodian of public
records of the district is {X}; contact information for this position will be placed in a prominent position
on the district website.

The District is responsible for a myriad of records which vary in the length of time retention is required.
The Superintendent is responsible for ensuring such retention requirements are followed.

Under the Public Records Law, electronic messages between public officials, including public
employees, may be considered public records. As such, all district employees and the School
Committee will be given district email address, with which they are to conduct all district business, so
the district may comply with public records requirements.

SOURCE: MASC 2023

LEGAL REFS:.: M.G.L.4:7; 66:10

REF: A Guide to the Massachusetts Public Records Law (Secretary of the
Commonwealth)

CROSS REFS.: BHE - USE OF ELECTRONIC MESSAGING BY SCHOOL COMMITTEE
MEMBERS

GBEE — PERSONNEL USE OF TECHNOLOGY
les

ile: ECAB

|

ACCESS TO BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS

The buildings and grounds of the Public Schools represent a significant community
investment. The primary purpose of that investment is for the students of the school district.

It is in the best interest of the public that this investment be secured while nonetheless providing maximum
possible community use of the district buildings and grounds.

During school hours when school is in session, access to the buildings and grounds of the

Public Schools are limited to district students, staff, and those with legitimate business with
the school or district. Those visiting for recognized business must follow the district visitor policy and
accompanying procedures. Access to school grounds during the school day, except for recognized school
or district activities, is prohibited.

During outside of school hours and on non-school days, the public is welcome to use school grounds from
dawn until dusk under procedures promulgated by the superintendent. Such use is secondary to use by any
school or district activity or to any community use as provided through rental or donation.

Access to school buildings after schoo! hours and on non-school days is only for attending school and
district events or for uses authorized by the superintendent or their designee. Access within the building
will be limited to only those participating in the authorized event. Such access will be limited to those
rooms and spaces required by the event, including appropriate restroom access.

The superintendent will ensure that procedures enacting this and related policies are created and enforced.

CROSS REFS: ECA, Buildings and Grounds Management
IHBAA, Observations of Special Education Programs
KF, Community Use of School Facilities
KF-R, Community Use of School Facilities
KI, Visitors to the Schools

NOTE: Districts should ensure non-school-related access is shaped to suit local buildings and
grounds and appropriate local expectations. Districts also should adapt language for school facilities
not owned by, but used by, the district.

SOURCE: MASC — rewritten 2025
lest

ile; EFC

|

UNIVERSAL FREE SCHOOL MEALS

The School Committee is committed to providing students with healthy, nutritious meals each day so they can focus
on school work, while also maintaining the financial integrity of meal programs, and to ensure compliance with
federal reporting requirements of the USDA Child Nutrition Program.

The District will participate in the National School Lunch Program, the Massachusetts Universal Free Meals
Program, and other food programs that may become available to assure that all students in the schools receive
healthy, nutritious school meals.

In accordance with guidelines for participation in these programs, the District will provide universal free meals to
all students in the District.

Students seeking additional meals or a la carte items will be charged accordingly for those additional items.

Each student in the District is entitled to (1) free breakfast, (1) free lunch, and (1) free snack (where provided by the
District.)

e It remains important that families complete the annual Household Application for Free and Reduced Price
Meals. This form allows the schoo! district to serve families more effectively for other important programs
such as P-EBT benefits, fee waivers for school district programs/ services, (as determined by each school
district), state and federal grant eligibility, and more.

© Districts participating through the Community Eligibility Provision (CEP), serve breakfast and lunch

at no cost to all enrolled students without collecting household applications.

As required by state and federal regulations, the School Committee approves this policy statement pertaining to
eligibility for universal free school meals for all students in the District.

CROSS REF: EFE, Civil Rights Complaint Policy for Child Nutrition Programs

LEGAL REFS.: National School Lunch Act, as amended (42 USC 1751-1760);
Child Nutrition Act of 1966; P.L. 89-642, 80 Stat. 885, as amended;
USDA School Meal Program Guidelines May 2017;
M.G.L. 71:72; 15:1G; 69:1C;
Chapter 28 of the Acts of 2023 7053-1909

SOURCE: MASC — Complete rewrite 2023
DRAFT.

File: IKFE - COMPETENCY DETERMINATION
One of the requirements for graduation in Massachusetts is a determination of competency in
subjects previously covered by the MCAS. In addition to other requirements for graduation,
students must have been determined by the district to have achieved mastery of the common core
of skills, competency, and knowledge in said areas, and satisfactorily completed coursework that
has been certified by the student's district as showing mastery of the skills, competencies, and
knowledge contained in the state academic standards and curriculum frameworks.

Competency Determination (CD) Requirements
A determination of competency shall include:

Demonstrating a mastery of skills in English language arts, mathematics, and science; and the
satisfactory completion of relevant coursework aligned to the standards measured by the high
school English language arts, mathematics, and science MCAS assessments administered in

2023.

An additional requirement for mastery in US History will apply to the graduating class of 2027,
and beyond.

To show mastery, a student must successfully complete, in accordance with Marblehead Public
School’s grading policy or by any other appropriate methodology as may be determined by the
District Administration:

1. The final assessment for a course; or

2. A capstone or portfolio project; or

3. An equivalent measure identified in the district's CD policy.

A student enrolled in the Marblehead Public Schools will be determined to have satisfactorily
completed coursework and earned full credit in accordance with the district's grading policy and
the requirements outlined below:

Content Area Coursework Requirements | Notes

English Language Arts

Receive a passing grade and
credit for both the English 9
and English 10 courses.

To satisfy this course
requirement, the English
Language Arts courses must
be taken in grades 9-12.

credit for Biology and an
additional lab science course
(Chemistry, Physics, or
Engineering).

Mathematics Receive a passing grade and | The middie school Algebra J
credit for both Algebra | and | course certified by the
Geometry courses. District meets the coursework
requirement for the
mathematics component of
the CD. The Geometry course
must be taken in grades 9-12,
Science Receive a passing grade and —_| To satisfy this course

requirement, the science
course must be taken in
grades 9-12.

U.S. History (Beginning with
the graduating class of 2027)

Receive a passing grade and
credit for United States

History.

To satisfy this course
requirement, the U.S. History
course must be taken in
grades 9-12,

Aligned Courses

Marblehead Public Schools offers courses in alignment with the state curriculum frameworks
that meet the above requirements, Students will demonstrate mastery in each content area
(English, Math, History, and Science), by receiving a passing grade and credit for each of the
following courses: English 9, English 10, Algebra 1, Geometry, US History, Biology, and
Chemistry, Physics, or Engineering.

Summer school programming will be provided for students who fail a course(s) requiring a
passing grade for Competency Determination.

Students who do not pass the courses as outlined above will be placed on a Proficiency Plan in
which the student will demonstrate evidence of meeting the learning standards of the course(s)
from student work, such as classroom assignments, projects, and assessments. The applicable
courses for the proficiency pian will be in the categories as outlined - English, Math, Science,
and/or US History. A student’s proficiency will be assessed by the Principal or designee.

Additional Considerations

Students with Disabilities

The Marblehead Public Schools must both provide a Free and Appropriate Public Education to
students with disabilities and must also determine that the student has met the competency
determination and local graduation requirements prior to graduating that student. Students with
disabilities who have been placed in out-of-district placements must meet the requirements of the
competency determination policy of the placing school district. Discussion of the Competency
Determination must be a part of the Individualized Education Plan Team's transition planning.

The Individualized Education Plan (IEP) team will use professional judgment to determine if'a
student with significant cognitive disabilities is eligible for this alternative portfolio assessment,
considering the individual student’s needs.

English Language Learners

The Marblehead Public Schools shall, on a case-by-case basis, determine the appropriate courses
necessary for English Language Learners to both achieve language proficiency and meet the
competency determination requirements.

Late-Enrolling Stude:

Students who enroll in Marblehead High School after their ninth-grade year may be granted a
determination of competency by the Marblehead Public Schools in one or more of the following

ways:

* Transcript review by the school principal.

+ A qualifying MCAS score of at least meeting or exceeding expectations achievement
levels on the relevant high school MCAS assessment; or by meeting the standard for a
substituted equivalent that the District certifies satisfies the same academic standards.

Appeals Process

Current students and/or parents/guardians may appeal the determination of competency in
accordance with the following District procedures:

1) Appeals must be submitted to the Marblehead High School Principal.
2) Ifunsatisfied with the appeal to the Marblehead High School Principal, the current
student and/or parents/guardians may appeal to the Superintendent.

The amended CD regulations also include a provision that allows the DESE Commissioner to
waive a provision of the regulations for good cause, upon a written request from the district.

LEGAL REFS: DESE Graduation Requirements and Related Guidance
DESE Graduation and Transition Planning for Students with IEPs
DESE Competency Determination Guidance and Policy Submission Process
603 CMR 30.00
M.GLL. c. 69, § 1D

CROSS REFS: Student Handbook
IKF, Graduation Requirements

SOURCE: MASC - 2025
Proposal for a bench in memory of Savanah Gatchell

Location: Between the doors to the PAC and the main entrance of the building. (Photo below)
Size: 6 feet long
Price: $559
Free-Standing, attached to pavement. (Permanent placement)
Material: Cedar
Plaque Inscription:
Donated by
the Marblehead Community
In Loving Memory of Savanah Gatchell

Bench Invoice
Fundraising will begin once approved, organized by MADD 4 MHD

Photo of Bench COLOR: (Cedar)

Photo Showing the Freestanding Frame: Bolt Down
Style B

Donated by
the Marblehead Community
In Loving Memory of Savanah Gatchell
Location: Between the doors of the PAC and the Main Entrance, in front of the 2
trees, bolted down to the cement.

DRAFT MINUTES

Marblehead School Committee

Chair: Al Williams (acting chair K. Schmeckpeper)

Meeting Date, Time & Location: Thursday, November 20th, 2025, 6pm, MHS Library, 2 Humphrey
Street Marblehead MA 01945

SC Members Present: M. Clucas, J. Schaeffner, K. Schmeckpeper, H. Gwazda

SC Members Absent: A. Williams

Agenda: Link

Materials: Link

Meeting Recording: Link

Minutes Respectfully Submitted By: Henry Gwazda

Opening and Preliminaries (00:00:00-00:06:00)

a. Meeting called to order at 6:01 p.m.; Pledge of Allegiance.
b. No commendations presented.
c. Public comment:
«Community member thanked Schoo! Committee and district teachers for excellent work

* Noted positive observations from Collins Middle School visit, including diverse and inclusive artwork in

cafeteria
d. Student representative Will provided school activity updates:
* Powderpuff game Saturday 10 a.m. at Swampscott Field

+ Fall sports results: football and girls soccer eliminated in round of eight; boys cross country eighth in
Division 2; girls cross country second in D2A

* Senior brunch Sunday 9-11 a.m. in cafeteria; winter athletics registration open for seniors

+ Fall MHS Acapella Concert Tuesday 7 p.m.; MHS Cabaret showcase that evening 7 p.m. in auditorium

Superintendent Update (00:06:00-00:15:00)

a. Superintendent John Robidoux provided updates on district substance abuse education initiatives:

* Collaborative team working on substance abuse education with trauma-informed, student-centered
approaches matching developmental readiness
+ Programming includes featured speakers, focus groups, curricular lessons in grades 4-12, data collection,
diversion programs, and counselor meetings

* High school students prefer small group discussions within regular classes over large assemblies

* School Committee will receive regular updates

b. John Robidoux reported on mecting with 16 high school students and METCO Director K. Johnson regarding
school culture and student belonging:

+ Students shared concerns and improvement ideas

* Discussions will connect with anti-discrimination committee dialogue and student-established MAGIC

coalition

Consent Agenda and Field Trip Approvals (00:15:00—00:24:00)

a. Motion by Henry Gwazda, seconded by Melissa Clucas, to approve schedule of bills totaling $835,535.81 and
meeting minutes from November 6, 2025.

* Motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: J. Shaeffner, H. Gwazda, M. Clucas, K. Schmeckpeper; and votes
against: none.
b. Connor Ryan presented a field trip request for Innovation Career Pathways manufacturing engineering
technology pathway students to visit the Landing School in Arundel, Maine on December 3rd.
+ Motion by Henry Gwazda, seconded by Melissa Clucas, to approve the pathway program field trip to Maine.
* Motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: J. Shaeffner, H. Gwazda, M. Clucas, K. Schmeckpeper; and votes
against: none.
c. Michele Carlson and student presented field trip request for speech and debate club to attend Barkley Forum
tournament at Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia.
* Motion by Henry Gwazda, seconded by Melissa Chicas, to approve the speech and debate club field trip to
Emory University.
+ Motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: J. Shaeffner, H. Gwazda, M. Clucas, K. Schmeckpeper; and votes
against: none.

MHS Roof Contract Presentation and Discussion (00;:24:00-00:54:00)

a. Bid results for Marblehead High School roof and HVAC project:

© Subcommittee member Brian Serafin attended the meeting in person. Members Mare Leibman and Ralph

Wallace participated remotely.

Six general contractor bids received; subcommittee recommended Homer Contracting Inc. of Arlington,
Massachusetts at $8,970,000, $2,120,000 under budget of $11,090,000
* Subcommittee voted unanimously not to pursue liquid applied roofing alternate, which would have added
over $2 million to project cost

* Project required to accept low bid (Homer Contracting)
b. Liquid applied roofing alternate discussion:

+ Mark Liebman explained extensive material damage requires removal, repair, and PVC installation before
liquid application, making it more expensive rather than cost-effective

* Three roofing subcontractor bids varied widely: Capeway bid $1.8 million extra, Greenwood bid $983,000
extra, Gibson Roofing proposed $157,000 credit

c. Procurement and project details:

+ Eight general contractors pre-qualified with six bidding; approximately 70% of contract value is HVAC
equipment, 30% roofing. Details provided by Ralph Wallace

* Project goal is substantial completion by October 2026
d. Subcommittee continuation and oversight:
* Subcommittee will remain active through project completion with all five community members continuing

* Mark Liebman offered frequent site visits during roofing installation and quarterly maintenance oversight
meetings after completion

+ Jennifer Schaeffner requested regular updates to full School Committee and suggested formalizing ongoing
maintenance oversight through Facilities subcommittee

e. Financial implications of $2 million savings:
* Michael Pfifferling reported savings cannot be used for other purposes and must reduce debt exclusion
+ Jennifer Schaeffner requested clarification on how savings will flow back to taxpayers

f. A motion was made by Henry Gwazda and seconded by Jennifer Schaeffner to award the contract for the general
contractor for the Marblehead High School roof HVAC project to Homer Contracting Inc. of Arlington,
Massachusetts, in the amount of $8,970,000. The motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: H. Gwazda, J.
Schaeffner, M. Clucas, K. Schmeckpeper; and votes against: none.

FY27 Capital Requests (00:54:00—-01:15:00)

a. Michael Pfifferling presented FY27 capital request list for School Committee approval before town submission.

+ Administration ranked items by priority; Pfifferling requested committee feedback on establishing LA, 1B,
1C rankings within priority one items for funding discussions with town officials

+ List previously presented to finance subcommittee

b. Priority one items totaling $935,000:
+ Bus camera system upgrade
+ Glover Elementary School playground safety improvements (remove jagged rocks/boulders)

* Marblehead High School field house improvements: painting/wall padding ($28,000), wall paint/acoustic
panel repairs ($300,000), flooring replacement ($200,000)

* Veterans Middle Schoo! clock and bell system replacement
* Village School Hopkins field fence replacement
c. Priority two items totaling $629,000:
+ Brown Elementary School playground shade structure
* Veterans Middle School expansion joint repairs and second floor plywood flooring replacement
* Veterans Middle School gymnasium floor refinishing (large and small gyms)
* Veterans Middle School gymnasium lighting upgrade
+ Veterans Middle School exterior stairs extension toward Pleasant Street
+ Performing Arts Center wall sconce lighting and carpet replacement
* Village School gymnasium lighting upgrade
d. Priority three items totaling $93,000:
* Seaside Park drainage improvements (matching funds)
+ Snow equipment (track system snow mover/blower)
* Village School field structure restroom and equipment room refresh
* Technology wireless access points replacement
* Rolling stock replacement: two buses from 2013 and 2015

e. John Robidoux recommended bus camera systems, Glover playground rocks removal, Veterans Middle School
bell/clock system, and technology wireless access points all be considered priority one due to safety concerns.

f. A motion was made by Jennifer Schaeffner and seconded by Melissa Clucas to approve the FY27 capital request
priority list as presented. The motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: J. Schaeffner, M. Clucas, H. Gwazda, K.

Schmeckpeper; and votes against: none.

Donation Acceptance and Community Safety Update (01:16:00-01:29:00)

a. Motion by Jennifer Schaeffner, seconded by Henry Gwazda, to accept a donation of $2,500 from the Marblehead
Female Humane Society to the Marbfehead METCO donation fund. The motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: J.
Schaetfner, H.Gwazda, M. Clucas, K. Schmeckpeper; and votes against: none.
b. Jennifer Schaeffner reported on collaborative discussions with town leaders regarding youth safety and

substance abuse:

+ Met with Chris Kennedy (Recreation and Parks), Tom McMahon (Board of Health), Erin Noonan (Select
Board), and Alexa Singer (Select Board)

+ Town bylaws regarding serving minors alcohol include $25 fines; five citations issued 2009-2016, none since
2017

+ Discussed reinstating annual spring meeting for parents of seniors with police/DA presentations

c. Superintendent John Robidoux to provide detailed presentation on existing substance abuse programs at future
meeting; confirmed coaches apply MIAA standards for athletic code violations; discussions beginning on applying
similar standards to drama/music activities.

Superintendent Goals Approval (01:29:00--01:32:00)

a. Timeline recap:

* Goals presented at November 3rd workshop, revised and presented November 6th, and edited for current
meeting

* Goals written as 18-month goals; some will be completed sooner, others may extend beyond timeframe
+ Ongoing progress updates to be provided; goals adjustable if needed

b. A motion was made by Henry Gwazda and seconded by Melissa Clucas to approve the superintendent goals.
The motion passed 4-0, with votes in favor: J.Schaeffner, H. Gwazda, M. Clucas, K. Schmeckpeper; and votes

against: none.
School Committee Goals Discussion (01:32:00-01:39:00)

a. Kate Schmeckpeper presented revised committee goal to elevate educator voices.
+ Goal includes working with superintendent to hold sessions with educators

+ Proposes appointing member or ad hoc subcommittee to research how other committees increase
participation and report findings on pros/cons by end of school year

* Revised document not available in shared Google folder prior to meeting
b, Committee discussed exploring non-voting representatives.

+ Kate Schmeckpeper explained other districts have CPAC, METCO, or expanded student representatives; goal
is exploratory research, not definitive action

+ Member raised concern about union leadership sitting on committees to avoid appearance of pushing agendas

+ Henry Gwazda confirmed goal focuses on developing proposals for future committee discussion
c. Motion by Henry Gwazda, seconded by Melissa Clucas, to accept school committee goal for elevating educator
voices. Motion passed 3-0 with one abstention. Votes in favor: Henry Gwazda, Melissa Clucas, K. Schmeckpeper;
votes against: none; abstentions: Jennifer Schaeffner.

d. Kate Schmeckpeperconfirmed she would send revised goal document to Lisa Manning for website posting.
Subcommittee Updates and Communications Planning (01:39;00-01;58:00)
a, Communications Subcommittee requested approval for S'mores basic plan ($99/year) for newsletter distribution

fo community members not included in district or PTO updates:

+ Concerns raised about elected board members having access to contact database; clarified database must be
managed through district, not individual committee members

+ Subcommittee clarified intent to share information discussed by committee, not speak on behalf of committee

* Committee agreed subcommittee would meet with Stephen Kwiatek to explore options and return with
proposal at next meeting

b, Budget Subcommittee reported meeting Monday to review analysis of existing budget and staffing by building
and category:

* Michael Pfifferling and John Robidoux will meet with building administrators for additional input
+ Joint meeting with Finance Committee subcommittee scheduled December Ist
* Calendar of presentations culminating in spring town meeting presented
c. Policy Subcommittee reported meeting that morning:
+ First draft of competency determination policy presented; second draft after Thanksgiving
+ Approved policy revisions and new policies to come before full committee in December
d. John Robidoux reported on Wellness Committee's second meeting:
+ Wellness policy requires revision every three years, will revise based on input and bring back to next meeting
+ Anti-discrimination committee meets in December
* Safety committee with union and administrators scheduled approximately December 11th

+ Town safety committee meets quarterly; next meeting approximately January

Adjournment to Executive Session (01:58:00-01:59:00)

a, Motion by Henry Gwazda, seconded by Jennifer Schaeffer to meet in executive session pursuant to Chapter
30A Section 21A3 Purpose 3 to discuss litigation Marblehead Schoo! Committee and Marblehead Teachers
Association MUP 2511555 as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the
school committee, and to meet in executive session pursuant to Chapter 30A Section 21A3 Purpose 3 to discuss
litigation Boyd Perry versus Marblehead Public Schools et al. Docket number 124cv-10606 U.S. District of
Massachusetts as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the school committee,

without intent to return to open session.

b. Roll call vote passed 40, with votes in favor: J. Schaeffner, M. Chucas, H. Gwazda, K. Schmeckpeper; and

votes against: none.

c. Meeting adjourned to executive session at 7:58pm
