                                 MarbleheadPublic Schools
                               Administrator Evaluation Goals
                                 November 2025-June 2027


Name: John J. Robidoux

Goal 2: District Improvement Goal:

   1.​ Name of Goal:

      Enhancement of practices related to the hiring, training and retention of licensed
      Marblehead Public Schools educators


   2.​ Summary/description of goal:

      This goal is being created to address the hiring, training and retention of licensed
      educators in Marblehead Public Schools. Our goal is to hire high performing and highly
      qualified educators and ensure that they are provided the appropriate training, support
      and resources so that they remain in the district and become part of the fabric of our
      educational community for an extended period of time. There are many facets to creating
      a school culture in which people want to belong and this goal will explore ways in which
      we can enhance accountability, establish solid educational programming, grow leaders,
      and provide meaningful and sustainable mentorship and support for new and veteran
      staff.


   3.​ Why did you choose this goal?

      Retention of staff is always something that needs to be addressed in any workplace.
      Marblehead has a reputation for providing high academic standards, but positionality
      among the north shore communities can inhibit the longevity of staff. It is incumbent
      upon the administration to ensure that there is cohesive, collaborative and meaningful
      support in place for our educators so that they can manage their learning spaces in the
      most efficient and effective manner to foster student success. Exploring these factors and
      determining ways that we can engage our educators more productively is why this goal
      was established.

   4.​ How will you measure this goal?

      Measurement of this goal will be done through oversight of the HR department's specific
      tracking of hiring from year to year and by providing opportunities for, and tracking of,
      exit interviews for staff that leave the district. The data collected will help establish trends
      and inform hiring and retention practices. Reviewing data from our Lead Mentors as a
      part of our robust mentor program will assist in tracking the training that is being
      provided and will help to ensure that the training is helping to make meaningful gains in
      retention of our educators. We will measure the success of this goal, in part, by targeting
      a 10 % decrease in the number of departures of licensed educators throughout the next 18
      months.


   5.​ What will the evidence be that demonstrates meeting this goal?

      Evidence of meeting this goal will be the creation of a systemic tracking system,
      feedback from our Lead Mentors, development of an exit interview process and by
      culling data related to hiring and departure of staff throughout the district. Quarterly
      reporting of the progress on this goal will also provide evidence of meeting this goal.


   6.​ What is the timeline for this goal? (start, benchmarks, end)

      Over the next 18 months, systems will be created and implemented so that by the end of
      this goal period hiring and retention practices will be in place that are meaningful and
      tangible. The data collected throughout the next year and a half will assist in ensuring that
      this goal is met in a timely manner.


I. Instructional Leadership
I-E: Data-Informed Decision-making

II. Management & Operations:
II-B: HR Management and Development

IV. Professional Culture:
IV-A: Commitment to High Standards
IV-E: Shared Vision
