                                Marblehead Public Schools
                              Administrator Evaluation Goals
                                November 2025-June 2027


Name: John J. Robidoux

Goal 3: District Improvement Goal:

   1.​ Name of Goal:

      Continuation of the development of the Marblehead School District Improvement Plan
      (DIP) 2026-2029

   2.​ Summary/description of goal:

      Massachusetts requires the establishment and implementation of a District Improvement
      Plan (DIP) for public schools in three year increments. The DIP is sometimes referred to
      as a strategic plan.

   3.​ Why did you choose this goal?

      Marblehead currently has a “Plan for Success” in place which is due to be revamped in
      the 2026-2027 school year. It is important that a new plan is created and that the plan
      ensures input and feedback from all stakeholders. Each School Improvement Plan is
      supposed to align with the DIP and that will be the focus as we develop the updated plan
      for the district.

   4.​ How will you measure this goal?

      This goal will be measured by the steps outlined to complete the plan and the completion,
      approval and dissemination of the plan itself. The district administrators and building
      administrators have provided input to the plan. The document that will be shared with
      staff and the School Committee (hopefully by the end of December). Once that input is
      integrated, the document will be sent to secondary students and parents/caregivers for
      input (end of January-February). The final pieces to the plan development will be to
      garner further feedback from the School Committee and present the plan in public for
      final approval and dissemination (April/May School Committee meeting). Stakeholder
      input into the creation of the plan will, by virtue of each step in the process, measure the
      goal as the plan is developed. The new plan will be much more comprehensive and will
      include specific goals, benchmarks and objectives. Ultimately, School Committee
      approval and dissemination of the plan will measure and monitor the progress of this
      goal.
   5.​ What will the evidence be that demonstrates meeting this goal?

      Evidence of meeting this goal will be the completion of each of the aforementioned steps
      and by the final plan being presented to the School Committee in the spring based upon
      data collected from student, parent, caregiver, community and staff surveys.

   6.​ What is the timeline for this goal? (start, benchmarks, end)

      The District Improvement Plan is in process with stakeholder input being solicited.
      Currently, district administrators have provided their input. Staff and community
      members will have the opportunity to provide their input. The proposed DIP will then be
      brought to the school committee for input and feedback prior to final acceptance of the
      plan in order to be implemented for the start of the 2026-2027 school year.



Standards and Indicators:

I. Instructional Leadership
I-B: Instruction
I-E: Data-Informed Decision-making

II. Management & Operations:
II-A: Environment
II-E: Fiscal Systems

III. Family & Community Engagement:
III-A: Engagement
III-C: Communication

IV. Professional Culture:
IV-A: Commitment to High Standards
IV-E: Shared Vision
