EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN
THE MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE
AND
JOHN ROBIDOUX

This Employment Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “this AGREEMENT”) is made between the
Marblehead School Committee (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee") and John Robidoux
(hereinafter referred to as the “Superintendent” or “ Mr. Robidoux”). This AGREEMENT will be
effective as of July 1, 2025 and on July 1, 2025 shall supersede all prior employment agreements between
the Committee and Mr. Robidoux. For mutual consideration expressed herein, the parties agree as
follows:

1. EMPLOYMENT: The Committee hereby agrees to employ Mr. Robidoux
as the superintendent of the Marblehead Public Schools, and Mr. Robidoux
accepts such employment on the terms and conditions contained in this AGREEMENT.

2. DURATION: Mr. Robidoux shall be employed as the superintendent of the Marblehead
Public Schools for three (3) years, from July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2028, except as this AGREEMENT
may be otherwise extended by mutual agreement or terminated as provided herein. No later than
February |, 2028, the Committee shall notify the Superintendent in writing as to whether or not it desires
to continue the Superintendent’s employment beyond June 30, 2028. Should the Committee and the
Superintendent mutually desire to continue the Superintendent’s employment, they will make a good faith
effort to complete negotiations for a successor employment agreement on or before March 15, 2028. If
they are unable to agree upon a new employment agreement or an extension of this AGREEMENT, then
this AGREEMENT will expire, and the Superintendent’s employment will end on June 30, 2028.

3. COMPENSATION AND ONE-TIME ANNUITY PAYMENT

3,1 Compensation: The Superintendent will be paid in accordance with the following schedule:

Contract Year Contract Year Salary
First July 1, 2025-June 30, 2026 $215,000.
Second July 1, 2026-June 30, 2027 To Be Determined
Third July 1, 2027- June 30, 2028 To Be Determined

The Superintendent’s Contract Year Salary shall be subject to withholdings for state and federal taxes and
other withholdings required by law or authorized by the Superintendent. The Committee shall determine
the Superintendent’s salary for the Second Contract Year (July 1, 2026- June 30, 2027) on or before June
30, 2026 and the third Contract Year (July 1, 2027-June 30, 2028) on or before June 30, 2027. The
Superintendent's Salary in the Second Contract Year shall not be less than his Salary in the First Contract
Year, and the Superintendent’s Salary in the Third Contract Year shall not be less than his Salary in the
Second Contract Year. The Superintendent’s Contract Year Salary shall be earned ratably in each of the
Contract Years (July I, 2025-June 30, 2026; July 1, 2026-June 30, 2027; and July 1, 2027- June 30, 2028)
and shall be prorated for work of less than a full Contract Year. The Superintendent’s Salary shall be paid

in equal installments in accordance with the procedures governing payment of other professional staff in
the Marblehead Public Schools.

3.2 One-Time Annuity Payment: Provided that the Superintendent is employed as the Superintendent-of
the Marblehead Public Schools on June 30, 2028, the Committee shall make a one-time payment on or
about June 30, 2028 of seven thousand dollars ($7,000) to a tax-sheltered annuity of the Superintendent’s
choosing. The Superintendent shall choose an annuity that is consistent with Massachusetts General
Laws Chapter 71, section 37B, and section 403(b) or 457(b) of the LR.S. code.

4. WORK YEAR AND LEAVE BENEFITS:

4.1 Work Year: The work year for the Superintendent is twelve months commencing July 1" of
each Contract Year and ending the following June 30", The Superintendent shall devote his full time,
skill, labor and attention to the discharge of his dutics as Superintendent for the Marblehead Public
Schools.

4.2 Vacation Leave:
A. Accrual.
The Superintendent shall be entitled to twenty-five (25) vacation days per Contract Year
earned at the rate of 2.0833 days per month. The Superintendent may borrow against
future accrual during the same Contract Year.

B. Carry Over

A maximum of ten (10) vacation days may be carried over from Contract Year to Contract
Year, so that at any one time the maximum number of vacation days which are available
shall not exceed thirty-five (35).

C. Per Dicm Rate
For the purposes of determining the Superintendent's per diem rate under this
AGREEMENT, the Superintendent’s Contract Year Salary shall be divided by 261 days.

D. Contract Year Vacation Pay Out

The Superintendent may elect to have up to and including five (5) days of his unused
vacation paid out in the same Contract Year in which it was accrued provided that he
notifies the Committee in writing on or before February |“ of that same Contract Year that
he is electing (o have such unused vacation days paid out and the number of days he is
electing to have paid out. Pay-out shall be at the Superintendent’s per diem rate for the
Contract Year in which the election is made.

4.3 Sick Leave: The Superintendent shall be entitled to sick leave with pay in accordance with
the provisions in this Section 4.3. The Superintendent will accrue 1.66 days of sick leave per month
commencing July 1, 2025. The Superintendent may use accrued sick leave to cover (he Superintendent’s
absences for personal illness or injury. The Superintendent may carry over unused accrued sick leave
days into subsequent Contract Years up to a maximum of ninety (90) days. Subject to the cap in the prior
sentence, the Superintendent shall carry over all accrued unused sick leave days as of 11:00 p.m. on June
30, 2025 from his employment as Interim Superintendent for the Marblehead Public Schools, Unused
sick leave is not paid out upon separation from employment.

4,4 Holidays: The Superintendent shall receive the following paid holidays:
New Year’s Day

Martin Luther King Jr. Birthday

President’s Day

Patriots’ Day

Juneteenth

Independence Day

Labor Day

Indigenous People’s Day

Veterans’ Day

Thanksgiving Day

Friday after Thanksgiving

Christmas Day

4,5 Personal Leave: The Committee may grant the Superintendent up to two (2) personal leave
days with pay per Contract Year for important legal or personal business which cannot be conducted
outside of the Superintendent’s workday or for emergencies. Unused personal leave days shall not carry
over into a subsequent Contract Year and are not paid out upon separation from employment.

4.6 Bereavement Leave: The Superintendent may take up to five (5) work days as bereavement
leave with pay fo make funeral arrangements and/or to attend the funeral/memorial service for the
Superintendent’s spouse, child, father, mother, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparent,
grandchild, sister, brother, or other person residing in the Superintendent’s houschold. The
Superintendent may take up to two (2) workdays as bereavement leave with pay to attend the
funeral/memorial service lor the Superintendent's sister in-law, brother in-law, nephew, or niece,

5, REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES, MOBILE PHONE AND EQUIPMENT, AUTO
ALLOWANCE:

5.1 Reimbursement for Expenses: The Committee shall reimburse the Superintendent in
accordance with Committee policy and procedure for reasonable and necessary, documented expenses
incurred in the performance of his duties, except mileage which is covered by the Auto Allowance in
Sectio 5.3 below, upon the presentation by the Superintendent of receipts submitted within 30 calendar
days of incurring such expenses, including, but not limited to expenses for conferences approved in
advance by the Committee, as well as membership dues for organizations approved in advance by the
Committee. Such reimbursement shall not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.) in the aggregate per
Contract Year. The following dues and/or registration fees do not need School Committee prior approval
but are subject to the $5,000. aggregate limit per Contract Year:

MASS annual membership fee
MASS leadership Institute program fee
Joint MASS and MASC Conference registration fee

No reimbursements shall be made in excess of the five thousand dollar ($5,000.) limit without the prior
written request from the Superintendent and prior written authorization from the Committee after a vote
of the Committee at an Open Meeting.

5.2 Mobile Phone and Equipment: The Committee shall provide the Superintendent with a
mobile phone and a laptop computer for use associated with his work for the Marblehead Public Schools
and de minimis personal use.
5.3 Auto Allowance: The Committee shall pay the Superintendent an auto allowance of six
hundred twenty-five dollars ($625) in September, December, March, and June of each Contract Year.

6. INSURANCE: The Superintendent may elect to obtain group health insurance generally
available to employees and their dependents in the Marblehead Public Schools on the same terms and
conditions as such insurance is generally available to other non-unionized employees in the Marblehead
Public Schools, and the Superintendent recognizes that the Marblehead School Committee and the Town
of Marblehead may change such terms and conditions and such insurance from time to time. Ifthe
Superintendent declines to obtain such health insurance, the Superintendent shall provide proof of health
insurance coverage through another source and shall complete any required documentation including the
Massachusetts Health Insurance Responsibility Disclosure (“HIRD”) form.

7. DUTIES: The Superintendent shall have charge of the administration of the Marblehead
Public Schools consistent with law and Committee policies and directives. The Superintendent shail be
the chief executive officer of the School Department and shall employ, assign, direct, evaluate, discipline,
and terminate all employees of the Marblehead Public Schools consistent with law and Committee policy.
The Superintendent shall organize, reorganize, and arrange the administrative and supervisory staff,
including instruction and business affairs and shall be responsible for the operation and management of
the school department including the utilization of and accounting for funds appropriated for the school
department as well as all other funds coming under the control of the school department. The
Superintendent shall construct school committee mecting agendas in consultation with and at the direction
of the Committee chairperson, The Superintendent shall attend all meetings of the Marblehead School
Committee, unless excused, and may participate in all school committee deliberations except when
matters relating to the Superintendent’s own employment and/or this AGREEMENT are under
consideration. The Superintendent shall recommend regulations, rules, policies, and procedures deemed
necessary for the good order of the school departments, and, in gencral, perform all duties incident to the
office of the Superintendent, as provided by applicable laws and in accordance with the policies and
directives of the Committees, as they may be promulgated or modified from time to time.

8. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION: The Committee shall devote at least a portion of one
meeting before June 30" of each Contract Year to an evaluation of the Superintendent’s performance and
working relationship with the Committee. This performance evaluation shall comply with applicable law
and regulations and be based in part upon performance criteria developed mutually by the Committee and
the Superintendent; however, if the Committee and Superintendent do not agree on such criteria, the
criteria shall be set by the Committee afler input from the Superintendent. The Committee shall evaluate
the Superintendent at a meeting held in open session in accordance with the provisions of Massachusetts
General Laws. The Superintendent understands and agrees that his evaluations will be conducted in an
open session meeting of the Committee.

9. LICENSE: The Superintendent hereby represents to the Committee that he is currently
licensed to serve as Superintendent of Schools pursuant to the laws of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts and the Rules and Regulations of the Commissioner of Elementary and Secondary
Education and the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education, As a condition of
employment and continued employment, the Superintendent shall maintain, throughout the term of this
AGREEMENT, a valid and appropriate license qualifying him to serve as a Superintendent of Schools in
a school district in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, as required by Massachusetts General Laws, as
such may be amended from time to time. The Superintendent agrees to notify the Committee within 24
hours of learning that his license is being or has been revoked, rescinded, suspended, or lapsed.

10. PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES, TUITION REIMBURSEMENT:

10.1 Professional Activities: The Superintendent shall devote his full-time, attention, and energy
to the business of the Marblehead Public Schools. However, the Committee encourages the continuing
professional growth of the Superintendent through the Superintendent’s participation, as he might decide
considering the responsibilities of superintendent, in:

A. the operations, programs, conferences, and other activities conducted or sponsored by
local, state, and national school administrator and/or school committee associations;

B. local, state and national conferences, seminars, and courses offered by private
institutions, commissions, or committees related to education; and

Cc, informational meetings with persons whose skills or backgrounds would serve to improve
the capacity of the Superintendent to perform his professional responsibilities for the
School District.

However, except for reimbursement for expenses consistent with Section 5 of this AGREEMENT, no
other funds will be made available for any of the professional activities listed in this Section 10.1.

10.2 Tuition Reimbursement: The Superintendent may request reimbursement for tuition for
graduate-level courses at accredited colleges and universities for courses approved in advance by the
Committee provided that the Superintendent received a grade of “B” or better or a “Pass” grade ina
course only offered on a pass/fail basis. Reimbursement shall not exceed two thousand dollars ($2,000.)
in each Contract Year.

Il. INDEMNIFICATION:

11.1 In accordance with and to the extent provided by applicable Massachusetts General Laws,
the Committee agrees to provide indemnification to the Superintendent against all uninsured financial
losses arising out of any proceeding, claim, demand, suit or judgment by the reason of alleged negligence
or other conduct resulting in bodily or other injury to any person or damage to the property of any person
committed while the Superintendent is acting within the scope of his employment or under direction of
the Committee. The parties understand and agree that this indemnification provision shall not apply to
actions by the Committee to suspend and/or terminate the Superintendent.

11,2 Mr. Robidoux shall, within three (3) calendar days of the time he is served with any
summons, complaint, process, notice, demand or pleading, deliver a copy of the same to the Committee.

11.3 This Section 11 shall survive the termination of this AGREEMENT.

12, TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT:

12.1 Early Termination by Mutual Agreement: The Superintendent and the Committee may
terminate this AGREEMENT at any time prior to its expiration by mutual agreement.

12.2 Early Termination By the Committee with Cause: During the term of this AGREEMENT,
the Committee may suspend the Superintendent from his position as Superintendent and/or may terminate
his employment and this Employment AGREEMENT for insubordination, incompetency, neglect of duty,
or other cause. “Cause” herein shall be defined as any ground put forth by the Committee in good faith
that is not arbitrary, irrational, unreasonable or irrelevant to the task of building and maintaining an
efficient school system. Prior to any termination for cause, the Committee shall provide the

Superintendent with written notice of the reason, reasons, charge or charges against the Superintendent,
and the grounds on which such reason(s) or charge(s) is based along with copies of any documents or
other evidence on which the Committee may rely in deciding whether to suspend or terminate the
Superintendent. Provided that the Superintendent has made a request in writing to the Chairperson of the
Committee within five (5) calendar days of receipt of such written notice, the Committee shall provide the
Superintendent with a hearing upon said reason(s) or charge(s). Such hearing shall be conducted in
accordance with the provisions of the Open Meeting Law, Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 30A.
There shall be no right to present witnesses and no right to confront or cross-examine witnesses. The
Superintendent shall be entitled to have his legal counsel present to advise him. The Superintendent shall
be responsible for paying all fees and costs associated with such legal counsel. The decision of the
Committee, after such hearing, if any, shall be final and binding, subject to such judicial review as may be
provided under applicable law. The Superintendent may request to use his accrued vacation days prior to
his separation from employment and/or the Committee may schedule the Superintendent for vacation
days prior to his final day of employment. In the event of termination pursuant to this paragraph, the
Commitice shall not be required to pay, and the Superintendent shall not be entitled to receive salary
payments and benefits payable after the effective date of termination.

12.3 Early Termination by the Superintendent: The Superintendent may terminate his
employment by submitting his written resignation to the Committee with as much advance notice as
possible but no less than ninety (90) calendar days advance notice. In the event of termination pursuant to
this paragraph, the Committee shall not be required to pay, and the Superintendent shall not be entitled to
receive salary payments and benefits payable after the effective date of the Superintendent’s resignation.
The Superintendent may request to use his accrued vacation days prior to his separation from employment
and/or the Committee may schedule the Superintendent for vacation days prior to his final day of
employment.

12.4 For Disability: Subject to applicable law, if the Superintendent is absent from work on
account of a disability for more than one hundred (100) calendar days, the Committee shall have the
option of terminating his employment and this Employment AGREEMENT, If the Committee exercises
its option to terminate the Superintendent’s employment and this Employment AGREEMENT, the
Superintendent shall not be entitled to receive salary payments and benefits payable after the effective
date of such termination,

13. NOTICES: All notices required or desired to be given under this AGREEMENT will be
deemed to be served if in writing and delivered by in-hand delivery to the Superintendent or sent by
certified mail to the Superintendent’s residence in the case of the Superintendent, or delivered by in-hand
delivery to the Chairperson of the Committee with a copy emailed to every member of the Committee.

14. ENTIRE AGREEMENT: This AGREEMENT contains the whole agreement between the
Committee and the Superintendent. There have been no inducemenis, promises, terms, conditions, or
obligations made or entered into by either party other than those set forth herein, No modification of or
addition to this AGREEMENT shall be effective unless and until set forth in writing and signed by the
parties,

15. SEVERABILITY: If any term(s) or provision(s) of this AGREEMENT is held to be invalid
or unenforceable for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity and enforceability of the
remaining terms and provisions shall not be affected, and such invalid and/or unenforceable term(s)
and/or provision(s) shall be modified to the extent necessary to make it or them enforceable.
16. GOVERNING LAW: This AGREEMENT shall be interpreted, enforced, governed and
construed under and in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

17. COUNTERPARTS: This AGREEMENT shall be executed in two counterparts, cach of
which shall be deemed to be an original and both of which taken together will be deemed one and the
same instrument.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have caused this AGREEMENT to be subscribed in duplicate on
this 28 day of Mey, 2025.

LR Wr

Sohr idoux, Superintendent

BEHALF OF THE MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE
BY:

Dobbie

Jennifer Schaeffer, Chairperson
Marblehead School Committee

