                                Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                                 January 25, 2018
                                              Veterans Middle School

Members Present:                          Meredith Tedford, Kate Lipsitz,
                                          Jennifer Schaeffner

Also:                                     Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                          Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                          Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                          Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations
                                          Rachel Bowen, Director of Human Resources

Members Absent:                           David Harris

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 6:30pm.

         Ms. Schaeffner made motion to meet in executive session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A
         section 21(a), purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the MEA Unit A
         (Teachers’ Unit), Paraprofessional Unit, Tutors Unit, American Federation of State, County, and Municipal
         Employers Local 2610, Council 93 and Local AFL- CIO Cafeteria Employees, Custodians Association, and
         Permanent Substitutes, because an open session may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the
         Committee and with the intention to return to open session. The motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and the
         Committee VOTED on a roll call vote, 3-0 in favor.

Veterans School Presentation

     B. Commendations
        Ms. Tedford thanked James Maroney of MHTV for filming this evening.

     C. Public Comment
        None

     D. Student Representative
        Melissa Khorda, School Committee Student Rep noted that the Drama Club is now rehearsing for the performance
        of Sleepy Hollow. Also the National Honor Society is hosting a movie fundraiser at the Warwick Place Cinema on
        Wednesday February 7th at 6:00pm for a screening of "Loving Vincent.”

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
    1. SC Minutes: 1/11/18
       Ms. Lipsitz made motion to approve the minutes of 1/11/18. The motion was seconded by Ms. Schaeffner. The
       Committee VOTED unanimously, 3-0, in favor.

     2. Senior White Water Rafting Trip – out of state and overnight
        Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the High School Senior White Water Rafting Trip as an out of state and
        overnight field trip. The motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and the Committee VOTED 3-0, in favor.

     3. Performing Arts Music Trip - out of country and overnight
        Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the presentation of this proposed trip for High School Performing Arts
        Music Trip to Montreal/Quebec Canada to the parents and students. The motion was seconded by Ms. Ms. Lipsitz.
        The Committee VOTED unanimously, 3-0, in favor.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                                1/25/18

    4. Vote to accept sale of Tiny House
       Ms. Schaeffner made motion to accept the bid for the sale of the Tiny House from Krystal Potvin of $21,800. The
       motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz. The Committee VOTED unanimously, 3-0, in favor.

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        1. School Calendar for 2018-2019
           Ms. Lipsitz made motion to accept the school calendar as presented for the 2018-2019 school year. The motion
           was seconded by Ms. Schaeffner. The Committee VOTED unanimously, 3-0, in favor.

         2. SBIRT presentation
            In March, 2016, the Massachusetts Legislature enacted a law relative to substance use, treatment, education and
            prevention (STEP Act) which outlines the requirements for public schools in the Commonwealth to engage in
            substance use screening and education. The purpose of SBIRT is to provide assistance to students who may be
            at a crossroads of drug/alcohol usage. Opportunities for access to treatment will be shared with students who
            admit drug/alcohol usage and are seeking assistance. The reporting of anonymous data to MA DPH and the state
            will inform future initiatives. The screening will be conducted by the SBIRT interview team which is composed
            of: School nurses, guidance counselors, adjustment counselors, school psychologists and social workers. All
            SBIRT team members have been trained in SBIRT protocol and procedures through a state-sponsored training
            program delivered by Boston University. The training was nine hours long over two sessions. Screenings will
            occur in the Spring of 2018 to 8th and 10th graders. Introduction letter will be emailed home to 8th and 10th
            grade families which will include a copy of the screening tool and an opt-out form.
            At student assemblies for 8th and 10th grades an explanation of the purpose and process for screening, including
            the parent and student options to opt out of the screening, will be presented.

         3. Town Report Submission
            a. Superintendent and Chair
               Ms. Tedford noted that each year, the Superintendent and School Committee Chair submit a letter for the
               Town Report giving a brief history and future endeavors of the Superintendent and School Committee’s
               Vision, Mission and goals undertaken to accomplish each in the areas of Curriculum, Budget, Operations,
               Safety, Technology, Communication, and Enrollment. Ms. Tedford asked the Committee for a vote to
               approve submitting the letters.
               Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the submission of the Superintendent and School Committee Chair’s
               letter for the Town Report. The motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and the Committee VOTED
               unanimously, 3-0.

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills
          #16014     $305,471.25
          #16054     $ 28,300.45
          #16055     $ 17,270.27
          #16056     $ 4,299.75
          #16057     $ 8,922.31
          #16058     $    425.00
                      $364,689.03

          Ms. Tedford asked that Schedule #16054for $28,300.45 be removed from the list otherwise she would have to
          recuse herself from the vote and there wouldn’t be a quorum.

          Ms. Schaeffner made motion to accept the schedule of bills for $336,388.58 (total minus schedule # 16054). The
          motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 3-0, in favor.

    2.    Kindergarten Tuition 2018-2019/Rental Facilities
          Ms. Maniaci explained that in January 2015, the school administrative finance team conducted an in depth analysis
          of the district kindergarten tuition rate. The average tuition rate for fiscal 18 for those districts not receiving State


                                                                 2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                           1/25/18

       grant funding toward full day kindergarten programming was $3,461. Marblehead no longer receives State Grant
       Kindergarten funding.

       As a factor of the annual district Kindergarten tuition vote, School Committee has recommended annual
       discussion of smaller incremental cost of living tuition increases to alleviate large one year variable future
       increases.

       With this in mind, the school administrative budget and finance team is recommending a 2% increase for the
       2018-2019 full day kindergarten tuition rate. This would set the annual rate at $3,430, an increase of $68 over
       school year 2017-2018. The recommended increase does not directly align (as past practice) with collectively
       bargained COLA increases as unit contracts are currently under negotiations. This 2% increase does align with
       generally accepted and forecasted economic cost of living and inflation indices. Kindergarten tuition revenue pays
       kindergarten professional teaching and support staff and associated fringe insurance, and a 2% increase will work
       to keep pace with potential salary increase expenses contingent on collective bargaining outcomes. The district
       will continue to offer sliding scale financial aid, installment payment options, and appropriate for twins/siblings,
       and second year students.

       As in past practice, a vote to set the FY19 Kindergarten tuition rate will be reflected pro-rata to set the Pre-School
       peer-model tuition rate for FY19. An increase relative to the recommended Kindergarten tuition rate, or 2%, for
       FY19 would be an annual Pre-School peer-model tuition rate of $2,142, an increase of $42 over schoolyear 2018-
       2019. The Committee will vote on this at the next meeting.

  3.   Warrant Articles
       Ms. Maniaci noted that if the following articles are approved, they will be submitted to the Selectmen’s office and
       will be vetted further during the Town Public Warrant Hearing on Monday, March 26th at Abbot Hall.

       Draft Articles for Submission to the Town Warrant
       (May be subject to change pending further vetting through Town, Finance Committee and/or legal counsel)

       Article XX Change of Use and Transfer of Public Property/Eveleth School and Property
       To see if the Town will vote to change the use of the Dr. Samuel C. Eveleth School and related property as shown
       on Marblehead Assessor’s Map 25 and Lot 21 containing about 3.417 acres +/- of land located on 3 Brook Road,
       from school purposes to playground purposes and that said care custody and control shall be transferred from the
       School Committee to the Recreations and Parks Commission and, that said transfer and change of use shall only
       occur if the Town of Marblehead School Building Committee selects the “Bud Orne Playground” as the next
       elementary school location, and further that the Town appropriate, borrow or otherwise raise funds sufficient to
       demolish and remove the existing structure, undertake site preparations and all related work including engineering
       and associated legal fees and costs or take any other actions relative thereto.

       Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approved Article XX Change of Use and Transfer of public Property/Eveleth
       School and Property for submission to the Town Warrant. The motion was seconded by Ms. Schaeffner and the
       Committee VOTED 3-0 in favor.

       Article XX Establishment of Special Education Stabilization Account
       To see if the Town will accept the provisions of Chapter 40, Section 13E of the Massachusetts General Laws
       permitting the School District to establish a Special Education Reserve Fund; or take any other action relative
       thereto.

       Ms. Lipsitz made motion to approved Article XX Establishment of Special Education Stabilization Account for
       submission to the Town Warrant. The motion was seconded by Ms. Schaeffner and the Committee VOTED 3-0
       in favor.




                                                             3
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                        1/25/18

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. Gerry Building Update
      Mr. Lord explained that at the last building committee meeting a “mid size” option school was discussed and voted
      by the Committee to not be added as another option. Ms. Tedford noted that last week’s Gerry BC meeting was a
      milestone to clarify why the additional option cannot work. There will also be informational nights in the coming
      months.

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
        Ms. Tedford asked for a motion to appoint a subcommittee for negotiations of a successor collective bargaining
        agreement with the MEA Unit A, Unit Paraprofessional, Tutor, Custodians and Permanent Substitutes, and The
        American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, Local 2610, Council 93 and Local AFL-CIO
        Cafeteria Employees. Members of the subcommittee are:
            • Meredith Tedford, School Committee Chairman
            • Maryann Perry, Superintendent of Schools
            • Rachel Bowen, MPS Director of Human Resources
            • Amanda Maniaci, MPS Director of Business and Finance
            • John McGinn, Town Administrator
            • Robert Bellucci, MPS Director of Student Services and Program Accountability

           Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the appointment of a subcommittee for negotiations of a successor
           collective bargaining agreement with the MEA Unit A, Unit Paraprofessional, Tutor, Custodians and Permanent
           Substitutes, and The American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, Local 2610, Council 93
           and Local AFL-CIO Cafeteria Employees whose members are:
                    • Meredith Tedford, School Committee Chairman
                    • Maryann Perry, Superintendent of Schools
                    • Rachel Bowen, MPS Director of Human Resources
                    • Amanda Maniaci, MPS Director of Business and Finance
                    • John McGinn, Town Administrator
                    • Robert Bellucci, MPS Director of Student Services and Program Accountability
           The motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and the Committee VOTED 3-0 in favor.

           Superintendent Perry noted that this year, the METCO students are not going to put on a concert but rather will
           hold a Cultural Feast on March 2, 2018. They will ask for donations of $5.00 which will go to the Tyrone Bumper
           Scholarship. This evening is organized and run by the student.

     B. Correspondence

     C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn the meeting was made and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 3-0, to adjourn.
        The public session of the meeting ended at 8:40pm.
                                                                      Respectfully submitted,
                                                                      Kate Lipsitz
                                                                     Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents
SC Minutes: 1/11/18
Senior White Water Rafting Trip – out of state and overnight
Performing Arts Music Trip - out of country and overnight
Vote to accept sale of Tiny House
School Calendar for 2018-2019
SBIRT presentation
Town Report Submission
Superintendent and Chair
Schedule of Bills
Kindergarten Tuition 2018-2019/Rental Facilities
Warrant Articles
Approved SC Mtg. 2/12/2018



                                                               4
