                                      Marblehead School Committee
                                            January 25, 2018
                                                6:30 pm
                                            Veterans School
                                               AGENDA

6:30PM

I.   Initial Business and Public Involvement
     1. Call to Order
     2. Motion and vote to meet in executive session for the purpose of appointing a subcommittee for negotiations
          of a successor collective bargaining agreement with the MEA Unit A, Tutors, Paraprofessionals, Cafeteria,
          Custodians and Long Term Substitutes with the intention of returning to open session.

Executive Session
     The purpose is for the appointment of a subcommittee for negotiations of a successor collective bargaining
     agreement with the MEA Unit A, Tutors, Paraprofessionals, Cafeteria, Custodians and Long Term Substitutes.

Return to Open Session
I. Initial Business and Public Involvement (continued)
    3. Commendations
    4. Public Comment
    5. Student Representative

Veterans School Presentation
II. Consent Agenda& Action Items
    1. SC Minutes: 1/11/18                                                     (vote)
    2. Senior White Water Rafting Trip – out of state and overnight            (vote)
    3. Performing Arts Music Trip - out of country and overnight               (vote)
    4. Vote to accept sale of Tiny House                                       (vote)

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        1. School Calendar for 2018-2019                                       (vote)
        2. SBIRT presentation
        3. Town Report Submission
           a. Superintendent and Chair                                         (vote)

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills                                                       (vote)
    2. Kindergarten Tuition 2018-2019/Rental Facilities
    3. Warrant Articles                                                        (vote)

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. Gerry Building Update

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
    B. Correspondence
    C. Adjournment
                             Marblehead School Committee Vision Statement

A model school district, exemplary in its student engagement and academic excellence, where all
students meet their highest potential with the support of outstanding instructional leadership and in
partnership with the community.
