                                   School Committee Minutes
                                   Monday, January 31, 2018
                              Superintendent’s Conference Room


Members present:              Jenn Schaeffner, Dave Harris, Meredith Tedford, Kate Lipsitz
Also present:                 Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                              Ken Lord, Executive Director of Technology and Operations
                              Sean Satterfield, Principal at the Coffin/Gerry Schools
I. Initial Business
   A. Call to Order
      Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 6:30PM.

II. District Report
    Ms. Perry gave an update about the condition of the Gerry School building. Mr. Lord
    explained that there was the issue of steam escaping in the attic at the Gerry. There was a
    report of plaster falling in the hallway as a result of the steam. The following day, the attic
    was filled with steam. The second floor was closed and the first grade students were moved
    to the Coffin School. The building and the plumbing inspectors came to look at the issues.
    There is also asbestos on the pipes that need repair. Mr. Lord explained that there would
    need to be asbestos abatement prior to repairing the pipe.
   Mr. Lord explained the three issues at hand. First, the issue of the broken steam pipe. There
   is concern about air quality with the broken pipe. Second, the ceiling issues need repair.
   And, third, the issue of potential mold is a concern.
   Mr. Satterfield explained the impact on the students and the educational impact. He
   described where the first grade students are at the Coffin School.
   Ms. Perry’s concern is the safety of the students. She is concerned about the unknown
   possibility of mold and the air quality issue. Her recommendation is to move the
   kindergarteners from the Gerry to the Bell School and keep the first grade at the Coffin
   School.
   There was discussion amongst the School Committee about the different options.
III. Adjournment
     Motion to adjourn. Unanimous vote at 8:01 p.m.



Approved SC Mtg. 2 12 2018
