                                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                              Monday, February 05, 2018
                                               Marblehead High School

Members Present:                           Meredith Tedford, Kate Lipsitz,
                                           David Harris, Jennifer Schaeffner

Also:                                      Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                           Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                           Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                           Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations
                                           Rachel Bowen, Director of Human Resources
Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 7:00pm. She explained this is a meeting of a public body and that there
        will be public comment but no dialogue. She noted that the purpose of the meeting is to discuss the details and
        moving parts involved in relocating grade one students to Coffin School and kindergarten students to the lower
        Bell and that hopefully the presentation will answer many of the questions people may have about these moves.

         Ms. Perry thanked the parents who emailed her directly with questions and suggested that anyone with questions
         can email her their concerns. Ms. Perry said that Mr. Lord will present a power point that will go over the timeline
         of the current issues at the Gerry School, the current condition, the knowns and unknowns and the kindergarten
         students. The power point will also address some questions she received in emails on asbestos, air quality, and
         water condition. The power point can be viewed at: http://www.marbleheadschools.org/sc-meetings under the
         documents for the 2/5/18 meeting. She explained that the kindergarten wasn’t moved last week because the
         damage was happening on the second floor and the CO2 levels were monitored and no safety risks were found at
         that time for the children and staff on the first floor. When an issue with the boiler started surfacing, a decision
         was made to move the kindergarten students and staff for their safety.

         The power point presentation was given and Mr. Lord gave additional information regarding the testing results. He
         noted that lead water testing was completed at all locations in the summer of 2016 with a few areas identified as
         needing attention. Those were repaired and retested and the results were within acceptable limits. He noted that
         results are available for viewing on the Water Department web site. Mr. Lord also addressed asbestos inspections
         and noted that all old buildings have asbestos but that by law we have testing done every three years to conform
         with AHERA regs and the most recent one was done last summer. A copy of the results can be found in the main
         office of each building. He also addressed the air quality at the lower Bell and noted that there were issues back in
         2007 however we have brought in an outside company and they cannot find any issue with air quality in that
         building. These results will be posted on the web site.

         Ms. Perry explained to the parents that if they kept their child home today or tomorrow, it would be considered an
         excused absence. She further explained that the physical move of school items will take place on Tuesday and the
         Gerry kindergarten teachers will go into the unused classrooms at the lower Bell. Teachers will work this Friday
         and the following Friday to move some of their belongings and the bulk items will be moved during school
         vacation week. Superintendent Perry noted that February vacation will be extended by two days, Monday,
         February 26th and Tuesday, February 27th, for the Gerry Kindergarten students only, to allow time for the teachers
         to set up their classrooms. All staff will follow the students. For the twelve kindergarten students who are more
         than 2 miles from the lower Bell School-we will get back to you with additional bussing information and we will
         make certain that there is a familiar face on the bus from Gerry to Bell. The Gerry students will remain at the
         Coffin and lower Bell Schools until the end of the school year.

         Ms. Tedford noted that this emergency contingency plan was developed many years ago because of the condition
         of the school.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                          2/5/2018

           Ms. Tedford opened the floor for public comment.

           Those who came forward to speak were:
           Sarah Fox-Beach Street, Jocelyn Cook-Jersey Street, Michelle Weed-Morgan Lane, Paul Donovan-Pearl Street,
           Jay & Casse Watt-Lee Street, Christina Webber-Naugus Ave, Stephanie Callahan-Intervale Road, Ali Church-
           Everett Paine Blvd., Elloree Jennings-Central Street, Kate Schmeckpeper-Chestnut Street, Kim Day-Liberty
           Road, Jessie Stephens-Commercial Street, Benjamin Crowninshield-Rowland Street, Seth Gummere-Jersey
           Street, Alfred Wilson-Pleasant Street, Conzolo & Kara Migliozzi-Hines Ct, Erika Goldwater-Jersey Street, Karen
           Zieff-High Street, Lee Becker-Bradlee Road, Julie Jones-Chestnut Street, Brian Corbett-Green Street, Kathryn
           Whorf-Schooner Ridge, and Emily Baron-Drumlin Rd.

           The topics covered by those who spoke included the lack of communication, the move to Bell School, the length
           of the move, the closing of the Gerry and the desire for repairs to be made and for students to return before the
           end of the year as well as the safety of conditions at the lower Bell School.

           At 8:56 Ms. Tedford closed the public comment session of the meeting.

           Ms. Tedford thanked all who attended and who voiced their concerns about the Gerry School move. She
           explained that the School Committee and Administration are in the process of receiving rough estimates for the
           repairs and assessment of the building. Mr. Lord noted he hopes to have estimates within the next few weeks and
           Ms. Tedford noted there would be an update at next week’s Monday School Committee meeting.

           Ms. Schaeffner noted that she would like to discuss how we will communicate in the future. She also remarked
           that there has been a contingency plan for the Gerry for many years and asked if there is a contingency plan for
           the other older schools and if not, that one should be planned. She also asked for a timeline as to when
           information can go out to the public.

           Mr. Harris noted that as chairman to building committee, he will work on communication and making sure the
           web site is updated. Mr. Harris asked the Superintendent why we need two additional days extended to the
           vacation. Superintendent Perry noted that it was at the request of the teachers because they need time to set up
           their classrooms and by contract are not required to work during school vacation. We’ll work with parents and
           families to set up other options for the two additional non-school days. Superintendent Perry noted that we are
           still working on pick up and drop off times at Bell. She also explained that the YMCA and JCC will have no
           changes in transportation for the near future. Any questions regarding the Y should be directed to them as they
           rent our space and would be the ones making decisions on their after school program.

           Mr. Harris noted that they will need to consider long term placement for incoming kindergarten students SY 18-
           19, 19-20 and 20-21 SY.

           Ms. Lipsitz thanked those who came out this evening and that the goal of the Committee and Administration is to
           have
           safe schools for the children.

           Ms. Tedford ended by saying that they will close the loop on links on the web sites as well as make certain that
           items are posted. She also reminded the public that the Committee’s next meeting will be on Monday, February
           12th.

II. Adjournment
    A motion to adjourn the meeting was made and the Committee VOTED to adjourn on a unanimous vote, 4-0. The
    public session of the meeting ended at 9:16pm.
                                                                      Respectfully submitted,
                                                                     Kate Lipsitz
                                                                     Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
Power Point Presentation on Gerry School
Approved SC Mtg. 2/12/2018


                                                              2
