                 Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                        and the Marblehead School Committee
                                    Meeting Minutes
                                   February 15, 2018
                   Glover School Cafeteria– 9 Maple Street – 7:00PM

Building Committee Members Present: Emily Barron, Jackie Belf-Becker (non-voting),
Ben Berman, Eileen D’Amour, Sarah Fox, Dave Harris, Ken Lord, Kelly Lyons, Amanda
Maniaci, Katherine Martin, John McGinn, Maryann Perry, Jeremy Pollender, Elizabeth
Rudzinski, Sean Satterfield, Cindy Schieffer, Aimee Sheppard, Ralph Wallace, Erik Weibust,
Donna Zaeske and Jim Zisson.

Building Committee Members Absent:
Richard Matthews, Bob Schaeffner (non-voting) and Ben Szalewicz.

School Committee Members Present:
Maryann Perry, Meredith Tedford, Kate Lipsitz, Dave Harris and Jennifer Schaeffner.

School Committee Members Absent:
None.

Guests: David Saindon, Jim Rogers, Brian Dakin (Leftfield), Gene Raymond and John
Bartecchi (RDA).

   1. Call to order
      Mr. Harris called the Building Committee meeting to order, and Ms. Tedford called
      the School Committee meeting to order, at 7:05PM.
      Mr. Harris lead a moment of silence in the wake of the school shooting in Florida.

   2. Approval of Building Committee Minutes from 2/1/2018
      A motion to approve the minutes for the 2/1/18 meeting was made by Mr. Wallace.
      The motion was seconded by Mr. Lord, and passed unanimously by those members
      of the Building Committee present tonight and at the February 1st Building
      Committee meeting, 15-0-2-5. (Yes/No/Absent/Abstained).
      Mr. Berman, Ms. Fox, Ms. Lyons, Mr. Pollender and Ms. Schieffer abstained, as they
      were absent at the February 1st meeting.

   3. Approval of Building Committee Invoices and Commitments
      Mr. Saindon presented an invoice log dated February 15, 2018 including an RDA
      invoice for period ending February 28, 2018 in the amount of $30,937.50 and a
      Leftfield invoice for the period ending January 31, 2017 in the amount of
      $10,278.00.

       Mr. Wallace made a motion to approve the invoices as presented and listed on the
       invoice log dated February 15, 2018 for a total value of $41,215.50. The motion was
       seconded by Ms. Schieffer and approved unanimously by the members of the
       Building Committee present, 20-0-2-0.
          Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                 and the Marblehead School Committee
                             Meeting Minutes
                            February 15, 2018
            Glover School Cafeteria– 9 Maple Street – 7:00PM

Mr. Saindon recapped that two weeks ago the Building Committee approved a
proposal to execute a traffic analysis study on the three remaining sites, but the
Committee deferred the approval of a wetlands delineation proposal for Bud Orne.
At the meeting two weeks ago, when the deferred approval occurred, RDA wasn’t
present to explain their need/desire for the wetland delineation to occur. Mr.
Saindon indicated that his preference was to proceed with this work. Tonight, RDA
is present, and Mr. Raymond explained that RDA’s goal in completing this scope of
services is to get as much info as possible on the constraints of that site, which is the
only site with wetland characteristics. Mr. Raymond indicated that he has had
discussions with Ms. Martin and doesn’t expect to find anything that would rule this
site out of consideration but added that it will help the site development process.
Mr. Harris asked what information these services would create that is in addition to
what is already publicly available about the site. Mr. Raymond noted that the
flagging process yields more accurate results than what is on public record, which
could influence site layout in a positive or negative way. Mr. Saindon added that this
wetlands delineation has value to the Town even if the Bud Orne site does not end
up being chosen. Ms. Fox asked Leftfield and RDA if the project is where it was
expected to be in terms of budget allowance usage. Mr. Saindon indicated this
$3,000 cost would be funded via the $15k budget line titled environmental
permitting. Mr. Raymond added that he felt the project was at a good spot in terms
of budget allowance usage and noted that more attention will be given to
uncovering all issues on the final site that ends up being selected. Mr. Zisson
commented that this wetlands delineation has to be done at some point but noted
previous discussion that the best time to do it is in Spring. Considering this, he felt
that the delineation should occur in April. Mr. Harris noted the services can be
authorized but not started immediately. Ms. Martin noted that $3k is not a large
burden to the budget, but it would be preferable to have some weeks elapse to
understand if Bud Orne was gaining interest. She also encouraged Committee
members to read the site analysis section of the PDP, which she has already
reviewed, as it provides good information about the limitations and process that
would be incurred by building on Bud Orne. She agreed that the study would yield
valuable Town information if Bud Orne drops from consideration as a host site for
this school. Mr. Raymond requested that the proposal be approved tonight so he
could get the sub-consultant under contract and the scheduling of the flagging could
wait until after the next Building Committee meeting.

Ms. Fox made a motion to approve the proposal from BSC group for wetlands
delineation and mapping at Bud Orne park for a lump sum of $3,215, which will
equate to a commitment value of $3,536.50 (#3,215.00 x 1.1 = $3,536.50). The
motion was seconded by Ms. Martin and approved unanimously by the members of
the Building Committee present, 20-0-2-0.
              Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                     and the Marblehead School Committee
                                 Meeting Minutes
                                February 15, 2018
                Glover School Cafeteria– 9 Maple Street – 7:00PM

4. Chairman Update(s):
   Mr. Harris explained that the School Committee called a meeting earlier tonight to
   discuss a disclosure by Ms. Schieffer that she is an abutter to one of the locations still
   being considered as a host site for a new school. Ms. Schieffer communicated with
   the State Ethics Commission and submitted the appropriate documents to identify
   that she abuts a property being considered for development by this Building
   Committee and is seeking an exemption to remain involved in Committee
   deliberations and decisions. Mr. Harris reported that the School Committee voted
   unanimously to sign the document, noting that they did not feel any conflict was
   substantial enough so as to require Ms. Schieffer not to participate. Ms. Tedford
   noted that the disclosure paperwork will be filed with Town Clerk and a record will
   be filed by the School Committee.

   Glover/Eveleth Highlights Discussion; Community of Learners
   Mr. Brian Ota, the Glover principal, introduced himself and noted that he was asked
   to share the experience of moving in to the Glover School. He noted that Ms. Julie
   Duggan, a Glover parent, and Ms. Constance Mostyn, a Glover kindergarten teacher,
   would also share their experience in this process.
   Ms. Duggan detailed her child’s transition from the Eveleth School to Glover, noting
   he was thrilled to go from the older and smaller school to the newer and larger one
   but that it retained familiarity because of the teachers and classmates. This step
   from Eveleth to Glover later helped Ms. Duggan’s child make the transition to the
   Village School. She noted that while the Eveleth did have a small community feel, the
   community feeling was not lost at the Glover, rather is was supplemented with
   better facilities that in turn opened up opportunities for students.
   Ms. Mostyn noted her prior experience outside of Marblehead teaching in a very
   small school that had no library, cafeteria or staff rooms where students and
   teachers spent the entire day in the same classroom, including recess and lunch. The
   playground was a block away. She noted that when she arrived at Glover she felt
   that it had everything that was needed to deliver education, including spacious and
   flexible classrooms, plenty of storage, students having their own lockers, wall
   display space, access to daylight, technology, proper heating and convenient access
   to sinks and bathrooms. Compared to her earlier experience, these resources
   changed the quality of education and convinced her that modern, larger schools
   provide the best ability for teachers to deliver quality education.
   Mr. Ota showed the Committee photos of the flexible usage of larger spaces at the
   Glover School, including the multi-use cafeteria space that this meeting is using, the
   library, remote learning areas and the gymnasium. He noted all of these spaces that
   come along with the comparatively larger population were flexible, useful and
   bright and encouraged people to come visit to see the school’s size and understand
   how it is used.
          Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                 and the Marblehead School Committee
                             Meeting Minutes
                            February 15, 2018
            Glover School Cafeteria– 9 Maple Street – 7:00PM

Mr. Harris noted that the next Public Forums are tentatively being scheduled for
Tuesday March 6th at Glover and a morning session on March 7th at the Village
School due to space availability. He indicated he is looking into having the sessions
recorded and ultimately posted to the project website. Mr. Berman and Mr. Harris
discussed the importance of Committee review and confirmation of any update
presentation for future public forums, and Mr. Harris indicated he’d work towards
sharing a draft with Committee at the March 1st meeting.

Mr. Harris walked the Committee though a draft overhaul of the project webpage
and thanked the volunteers who helped bring it together including Ms. Baron and
Ms. Day. Mr. Lord noted that the School Department needs to review this from a
technical perspective and figure out how to implement it with a School/Town URL,
and Ms. Perry noted that it is a general School Department policy not to include any
photos of children on any material including websites. Mr. Harris noted this would
be revisited and reviewed the draft sections of the website including Who We Are
(the Committee agreed that showing roles/professions of all Committee members
was important), Background of OPM and Designer, and a Project Background / FAQ
section. Mr. Berman noted the importance of getting this FAQ section vetted by the
Committee and “right the first time” is of utmost importance, while noting that the
progress the Committee is seeing is positive and will be helpful. He stressed that this
needs to get updated to include all important points and respond to all questions
that are out among the public but that it also needs to get posted and available to the
public as soon as possible. Ms. Tedford noted that the School Committee is also
working on a FAQ that addresses the Gerry steam leak issue and expressed the
School committee’s desire to keep people aware that this Feasibility Study and the
repairs at Gerry are two separate processes despite the core issues being related.
Mr. Berman noted that there should be some overlap, such as how/why the Gerry
site and building options were removed from consideration during the PDP phase of
the Feasibility Study, and references to how much work would be needed to
renovate it. Ms. Tedford generally agreed but noted that any items specific to the
steam leak and repairs have nothing to do with the Feasibility Study from an
administrative, policy or cost perspective. The Committee continued review of the
draft website, noting the list of meetings, agendas, presentations and handouts all
being posted. Ms. Schieffer asked who would be responsible to manage any updates
to this new website moving forward. Mr. Harris noted this is yet to be determined.
Mr. Lord noted keeping such a site continuously up to date is time consuming. Ms.
Schaeffner noted that like all other School webpages, this really needs to be
managed by a School Department employee. Mr. Harris noted that the desire was for
a member of the Building Committee to maintain the new site, and perhaps whoever
this person ends up can work directly under the guidance of School staff in they do
not already fill that role.
             Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                    and the Marblehead School Committee
                                Meeting Minutes
                               February 15, 2018
               Glover School Cafeteria– 9 Maple Street – 7:00PM

   Mr. Harris concluded the Chair update by again encouraging Committee members to
   visit all three sites remaining for consideration as a host for the project.

5. Designer Update(s):
   PDP Update, Approval and Next Steps
   Mr. Saindon began with a schedule update, recapping the PDP delivery plan from
   two weeks ago which outlined that the existing conditions section would be
   reviewed by Mr. Lord and that the Site Development Requirements section would be
   reviewed by Catherine Martin; both occurred. Mr. Saindon then went to remind all
   that the PDP delivery was to occur on February 20th based on a Joint Building and
   School Committee Meeting approving the PDP tonight, on the 15th of February.
   However, he learned that prior to the meeting, there were concerns raised on the
   approval of the PDP. He indicated that once the PDP is submitted to MSBA it is
   reviewed by their staff and comments are issued within 21 days. The project team
   then has 14 days to respond to those comments. He noted that there are roughly 10
   weeks to complete the PSR, which is scheduled to go to the MSBA on May 9th to meet
   the deadline for inclusion on the June 27th MSBA Board of Directors meeting. After
   the PSR is submitted the project will then meet with MSBA Facility Assessment
   Subcommittee.
   Mr. Weibust commented that it seems increasingly likely Gerry won’t open again
   and asked about the possibility of accelerating this project and working towards a
   special Town meeting in Fall. He noted open questions such as what the procedure
   would be and whether this was possible at all but felt that is should be discussed
   and explored. Mr. McGinn responded that this was not really a question for the OPM.
   Mr. Weibust asked Mr. McGinn if it’s achievable. Mr. McGinn responded that it would
   depend on timing and noted that a special Town meeting is very different than a
   regular one. He added that the last special Town meeting was a disaster, and that in
   general a single-issue Town meeting is risky. Mr. Weibust asked whether it was
   worth exploring. Mr. McGinn responded that the Committee should see where the
   process leads, noting he felt this discussion is premature and depends on a lot of
   variables that can’t be worked though tonight. Mr. Weibust noted that if there is any
   desire for a Fall special Town meeting then the process should work backwards
   from that target date, noting that he felt the faster the Feasibility Study finds its
   preferred solution and it is authorized by the Town the better.

   The Committee discussed the sequence of events that would occur in the event that
   a Bud Orne project becomes the preferred option, because a Town vote on the land
   swap would not be complete prior to submission of the PSR. Multiple options were
   discussed including submission of the theoretical Bud Orne option in the PSR then
   retraction of the PSR if the land transfer were not approved at Town vote, or also
   sending in a PSR that was written with the preference of the Bud Orne option, with a
   second option identified within the document in case the subsequent land transfer
          Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                 and the Marblehead School Committee
                             Meeting Minutes
                            February 15, 2018
            Glover School Cafeteria– 9 Maple Street – 7:00PM

vote failed. The Committee requested that Mr. Saindon discuss the sequence with
the MSBA. Multiple Committee members noted concern about the possibility of a
two-option PSR scenario, and also noted the importance of focusing on the
immediate next steps of the PSR phase.

Mr. Saindon noted that the various sections of the PDP that Committee members
had requested to review have been ongoing or are completed, including Ms. Martin
reviewing the site analysis sections and Mr. Lord and Ms. Perry reviewing existing
conditions and various summary sections. He continued that the plan was to
authorize RDA and Leftfield to submit the PSR’s to the MSBA at tonight’s meeting,
and have the School Committee approve the action, then for Leftfield to complete
the Local Actions Letter and Committee meeting minute package, review the entire
PDP document for conformance and then to certify its completion in a cover letter
and, with RDA’s assistance, deliver it to the MSBA on the 20th. Mr. Raymond
indicated that RDA was on board with that plan and was ready to have the
document completed for the 20th. He noted his plan is to drop off a binder to the
School Department on Tuesday in parallel with the MSBA’s copy. He also noted the
document will be made available in PDF format and will likely be in the range of
1,600 pages. He summarized that the PDP is a detailed document of everything that
the Committee and project team have discussed at meetings and working sessions
ranging from the educational visioning process to the educational programming and
space studies to existing conditions, 21 testfits and all comparative cost data
complete with descriptions, summaries and backup detail. Ultimately, the document
identifies the 6 options that the Committee elected to study further in the next (PSR)
phase. He indicated that the PDP does not advocate for any of these options over the
other, but that the next steps in the PSR begin to do exactly that.
Ms. Fox asked whether the MSBA review of the PDP provides any breakdown of
reimbursement by option. Mr. Saindon responded that the MSBA PDP review does
not yield this information, but that the project team would continue to analyze this
as options were developed.
Mr. Saindon indicated that the team needed the approval of the Building Committee
and then the School Committee to submit the PDP, it it’s the will of the Committee.
Mr. Harris indicated that he was recently told that there are people who are not
comfortable authorizing the submission without signing off on the final document.
Ms. Martin indicated that she had a discussion with Ms. Perry and there is a desire
for Ms. Perry or the School Committee to review the final document. Ms. Tedford
noted that the School Committee was prepared to approve the motion with the
caveat that the Superintendent approve it prior to submission to the MSBA. Mr.
Harris noted that there might be other members interested in such a review. Ms.
Tedford responded that based on her understanding of the discussion at the last
Building Committee meeting no other Building Committee members wanted to
review the document prior to its submission.
             Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                    and the Marblehead School Committee
                                Meeting Minutes
                               February 15, 2018
               Glover School Cafeteria– 9 Maple Street – 7:00PM


   Mr. Pollender made a (Building Committee) motion to authorize submission of the
   PDP to the MSBA by Leftfield and RDA pending final review by the Superintendent.
   Mr. Wallace seconded the motion. Ms. Martin asked whether anyone else on the
   Committee wanted to see the document. Mr. McGinn noted it should be put in the
   Committee Dropbox. Mr. Lord noted that having read the parts he’s asked for, edits
   have been minor and generally the information is consistent with what has been
   discussed throughout the process. Mr. Weibust noted that the schedule includes
   submission of the PDP to MSBA on Tuesday. Mr. Saindon responded that that was
   the intent but based on this new information it might get delivered in the following
   days after the Superintendent completes the review. The motion passed
   unanimously by the members of the Building Committee present, 20-0-2-0.

   Ms. Schaeffner made a (School Committee) motion to authorize submission of the
   PDP to the MSBA by Leftfield and RDA pending final review by the Superintendent.
   The motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and passed unanimously by the School
   Committee, 4-0-0-0.

6. OPM Update(s):
   PDP Update and Approval (in conjunction with Designer Update)
   Refer to section 5 above.

7. Preliminary Design Program (PDP) Updates:
   Refer to section 5 above.

8. School Committee Discussion / Vote of PDP Submittal
   Refer to section 5 above.

9. New Business
   Mr. Harris noted that the next meeting is scheduled for March 1st, where the
   Building Committee will start with PSR process.
   The Building Committee also discussed having three meetings in March by adding
   one on the 29th that can be cancelled if not needed.

   The School Committee meeting was closed via motion from Ms. Schaeffner that was
   seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and approved unanimously 4-0-0-0.

   Mr. Zisson informed the Committee that he has spoken with Mr. Nick Freeman and
   that Mr. Freeman has had heart surgery and is doing OK. He continued that Mr.
   Freeman wanted to attend tonight’s meeting, and that he looks forward to future
   attendance. Mr. Zisson made a motion for the Committee to extend best wishes to
             Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                    and the Marblehead School Committee
                                Meeting Minutes
                               February 15, 2018
               Glover School Cafeteria– 9 Maple Street – 7:00PM

   Mr. Freeman for his recovery. The motion was seconded by Mr. Harris, and
   approved unanimously by those present, 20-0-2-0.

   Mr. Berman communicated an idea to the Building Committee and to the remaining
   members of the School Committee in the audience acknowledging what he was
   about to request may be beyond the scope and authority of the Building Committee
   to execute. He indicated the idea was a discussion-starter and not a proposal, and
   something he has independently talked to some members of the Committee with
   including Mr. Zisson. He explained that in the event that a Bud Orne project is
   selected as the preferred option, that the School Committee consider using the
   Coffin property to develop satellite parking for the new school at Bud Orne and
   perhaps a park, leaving more space on the new school site for amenities to support
   the school itself like play space. He added that the same concept could apply if a
   Coffin project was selected as the preferred option: onsite sitework could be
   optimized for school operations and the Bud Orne site could be developed for
   satellite staff parking and park space. Mr. Zisson added that it would be
   acknowledged that the “offsite” parking and developments would be non-
   reimbursable, and that satellite staff parking is not ideal, but it’s not a long walk and
   this could be a great solution to develop a school with the appropriate onsite
   support space but also retain area park space for the community. Mr. Satterfield
   responded that having to take children offsite to a park is far from ideal, and Mr.
   Berman explained that the offsite parking would be for staff, not drop-off or pick-up,
   and that the park for the community would be at that offsite location. Play space for
   the school would then be able to be full sized at the school/project site. Ms. Perry
   asked RDA that if onsite parking were scaled down for the 450-student Bud Orne
   options whether the building could be lowered from 3 to 2 stories. RDA and Leftfield
   discussed that this type of development was possible in the PSR phase. Mr.
   Pollender noted that a 3 floor building isn’t necessarily less expensive than 2 floor
   building if both are the same square footage. Ms. Martin asked Mr. Pollender is there
   might be cost premiums associated with mobilizing on 2 sites. Mr. Pollender
   responded that since the two sites are very close it’s not likely to be a major factor.

10. Public Comment
    Kim Day – 18 Liberty Road – Noted development of the draft website was the result
    of previous discussion with the Committee, that it wasn’t done in a vacuum and that
    she volunteered because knew members of the public were asking many questions
    that a website update could address. Moving forward she noted her commitment to
    help make sure the site is maintained and offered to assist and/or pass updates
    though a key Committee or School Department contact. She also thanked Mr. Ota,
    Ms. Mostyn and Ms. Duggan for sharing their experience of the transition into Glover
    and suggested topics like that should be covered at future public forums.
          Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                 and the Marblehead School Committee
                             Meeting Minutes
                            February 15, 2018
            Glover School Cafeteria– 9 Maple Street – 7:00PM

Alistair Connor – Echoed Ms. Day’s comments and noted that she felt there is a
hunger for factual and reliable information in the public, and that access to that
information will help alleviate a lot of parent stress. She noted the discussion about
both getting the website FAQ and background info accurate and also quickly posted,
and suggested more summaries be added to the volume of info from meetings so
that the information was accessible. She also addressed the desire to accelerate the
project schedule and help minimize gap students who will not be able to benefit
from this new school in time because it won’t be finished. She added that she
worries about the idea of carrying two options into a Town vote, as it could become
a contest focused on people’s preferences as opposed to proposing the best plan for
the entire Town.

Tim Waldon – Noted to the Superintendent he was hopeful that returning students
to the Gerry school next school year was being considered. He summarized the value
of the Gerry School, noting that despite the Committee eliminating all Gerry options
he felt these are things that the Committee needs to address with supporters of the
Gerry School: the building is historical and is special because of its history, it’s a
beautiful building and site with ocean views. Just this would be a shame to lose. But
beyond the building itself, it’s special because so many families can walk to it and
this creates a culture and builds connections. He compared this current situation to
how Fenway Park was viewed in the 1990’s when it was considered an inferior relic
to new stadiums and noted how much that sentiment has changed after the proper
preservation and restoration.

Jocelyn Cook – 39 Jersey Street – Noted that while she values all opinions, she would
not advocate for returning students and staff to the Gerry School and that all
children should have the opportunity to go to a new and modern schools like the
Glover. She noted that the Gerry building and site could be used in many ways and
continued that she felt that buildings don’t make communities, people, teachers and
families do. She concluded that while there is value in wanting to save Gerry it
should not come at the expense of children’s education.

Alfred Wilson – 39 Pleasant Street – Noted that he was likely a person who will
disagree with whatever the final solution is because it seems like the Gerry school
has been undervalued. He commented that 150 people walk to that school every day
creating foot traffic and an economic impact that doesn’t show up in Committee
analysis. He also noted that health considerations for walking to school aren’t being
valued. He continued that while a new and modern school with technology sounds
wonderful as a sales pitch, it is not necessary for children in kindergarten and lower
grades.
             Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                    and the Marblehead School Committee
                                Meeting Minutes
                               February 15, 2018
               Glover School Cafeteria– 9 Maple Street – 7:00PM

   Pat Franklin – 6 Merrel Road – Noted that a factual and understandable update is
   essential for the upcoming public forums and requested that the Committee confirm
   that no wetlands flagging has already been done at the Bud Orne site.

   Holly Hanway – 8 Glover Square – Noted her surprise after hearing that the criteria
   to pare down the final 6 options is not already established. She felt that a lot of this
   discussion seems to be going backwards and this needs to be resolved prior to the
   public forums.

   Rebecca Delguidice – Lyndsey Street – Noted that her family moved to Marblehead
   due to the reputations of its schools but that they are now looking at private schools
   because they didn’t know that the Coffin and Bell were outdated in addition to
   Gerry. She noted the importance to her and other residents about the discussion of
   accelerating the process.

   Seth Gomery – 86 Jersey Street – Noted his support of Mr. Weibust’s comments
   about accelerating the schedule and the possibility of a Fall special Town meeting.
   He also noted he lives in Bud Orne neighborhood and that Mr. Berman and Mr.
   Zisson’s ideas of what the School Committee could do with left-over buildings and
   sites is impactful to his support of the project’s preferred solution.

   Dianne Goram – 1st grade teacher at Glover – Noted that she respectfully disagreed
   with the statement that K and 1st graders don’t need adequate space or access to
   technology in classrooms. She continued that she is currently teaching 23-1st
   graders to code. She also noted that she previously taught at the Eveleth School, and
   that she didn’t hear any complaints from teachers or students after moving into the
   larger and more modern Glover building.

   Mr. Martin made a motion to expand the scope of the already-approved traffic study
   to include investigating the idea of satellite parking between the Bud Orne and
   Coffin sites. The motion was seconded by Mr. Berman. Mr. Rogers noted there would
   likely be a cost to this, and after discussion Mr. Saindon noted he’d coordinate with
   RDA and the traffic consultant and review the scope with the Committee on March
   1st, which is before when the study will commence on March 2nd.

11. Adjournment
    A motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Weibust and seconded by Mr. Pollender. The
    motion was approved unanimously by those present, 20-0-2-0. The meeting
    adjourned at 9:16PM.

   Approved SC 3/19/2018
