                                  Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                               Monday, February 12, 2018
                                                Marblehead High School

Members Present:                           Meredith Tedford, Kate Lipsitz,
                                           David Harris, Jennifer Schaeffner

Also:                                      Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                           Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                           Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                           Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations
                                           Rachel Bowen, Director of Human Resources

Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 6:30pm.

     B. Commendations
        Ms. Schaeffner applauded the Bell, Coffin and Gerry PTOs for their role with the long held tradition of making
        welcome signs, messages, and a reception.

     C. Public Comment
        Kim Day, Liberty Road, Co-president of the Coffin/Gerry PTO. Noted that she can understand both sides of the
        issue and urged the Committee and Administration to be more forthcoming with communication to the parents and
        to acknowledge that their concerns have been heard.

          Jessie Stephens-Commercial Street implored the Committee to listen to those speaking.

          Tim Wadlow-Orne Street thanked the Administration for making the transition as smooth as possible but noted
          that they want the children to return to Gerry School and urged the Committee to review the costs associated for
          repairs to make this happen.

     D. Student Representative
        Not present

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
    1. Minutes: 1/25/18; 1/31/18; 2/5/18
       Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the minutes of 1/25/18; 1/31/18; 2/5/18 with the noted changes. The
       motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz. The Committee VOTED unanimously, 4-0, in favor.
       (Correct spelling of Ms. Schaeffner’s name on January 31 minutes and add dates to paragraph three on February 5th
       meeting where mention of additional two days of vacation for Gerry Kindergarten children is mentioned).

     2.   DECA Field Overnight Field Trip
          Principal Dan Bauer noted that this year Marblehead High School started the DECA Chapter. DECA stands for
          Distributive Education Clubs of America and it prepares emerging leaders and entrepreneurs in marketing,
          finance, hospitality and management in high schools and college around the globe. To be part of DECA, a student
          is expected to either be enrolled or plan to enroll in a business course. The Northeast DECA District competition
          was held at Endicott College in January. The next round is the state competition, which will be held March 8-10.
          We have 5 MHS students participating in the States. Henry Sabin has qualified to compete in the
          Entrepreneurship Individual Series Event because he won third place at the district competition. He is also running
          for state officer. Jack Dalton is our designated voting delegate, so he has to attend those sessions and place our
          vote. Jack Dalton, Christian Massey, Quinn O’Neil, and Lochlan Sheridan are participating in Quiz Bowl as a
          team. Students and chaperone (Ms. Skalaban) are staying at the Marriott Copley Plaza in Boston. Ms. Skalaban
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                        2/12/2018

          will chaperone and stay in separate room at the Marriott Copley. The activities are taking place at the Marriott and
          at the Hynes Convention Center. Fundraisers are being planned to defray the cost of attendance.

          Mr. Harris made motion to approve the DECA Field Overnight Field Trip. The motion was seconded by Ms.
          Lipsitz. The Committee VOTED unanimously, 4-0, in favor.

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
           1. Superintendent’s Goals Update:
              Three third grade Glover students gave definition and examples of how the implement PBIS in their school.
              Teachers followed suit with presentations and examples of the Superintendent’s goals in the areas noted
              below (documents for these reports can be found online at: http://www.marbleheadschools.org/sc-meetings)
              a. PBIS
              b. Service Learning
              c. Curriculum/Science/Health & Wellness
                  Mr. Harris asked about our search for a curriculum coach. Ms. Perry noted that the first round of
                  candidates did not provide us with a suitable candidate and the job has been reposted and those
                  applications will be reviewed, however, in the meantime the teachers are working diligently in this area.
              d. IDashboard

         2. MHS Program of Study
            Mr. Bauer, High School Principal, noted that the additions for this year include: GIS Mapping (Applied Arts);
            Mindfulness 102; Spanish 4 CP2; and MHS Tech Support.
            Classes no longer running: Tiny House; Comparative Mythology; Integrated Math 1; Functions, Statistics &
            Trigonometry/Algebra 3; Art Portfolio; Musical Theatre Part 2: Sondheim to Present; Technical Theatre; and
            Jazz Combo Honors. Mr. Bauer also noted changes which included course name changes; Fine Arts listing in
            POS;
            Sequential Courses; Moving Family & Consumer Science to Wellness Department; Wording for Override – 8th
            Grade process; Wording for moving up/down in a course; and Athletic Eligibility.

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills
        #16078 $ 3,659.00
        #16090 $     85.00
        #16111 $ 41,215.50
        #16125 $397,080.69
        #16130 $    255.00
        #16136 $ 44,045.84
        #16143 $ 20,972.62
        #16144 $ 9,557.29
        #16145 $ 9,183.50
        #16148 $    485.68
               $526,540.12

          Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the Schedule of Bills for $526,540.12. The motion was seconded by Ms.
          Lipsitz. The Committee VOTED unanimously, 4-0, in favor.

    2.    Kindergarten Tuition for 2018-2019
          Ms. Lipsitz made motion to approve the Kindergarten Full Day tuition annual rate of $3,430.00 as well as the Pre-
          School peer-model tuition rate of $2,142.00 for the 2018-2019 school year. The motion was seconded by Ms.
          Schaeffner and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 4-0, in favor.




                                                              2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                       2/12/2018

   3.       Rental Facilities 2018-2019
            Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve a 2% increase across all categories of the Marblehead Public Schools
            Facilities Rental Contract fee schedule for school year 2018-2019. The motion was seconded by Mr. Harris and
            the Committee VOTED unanimously in favor, 4-0.

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. Gerry Repair
      a. Discussion
      b. Timeline

        Ms. Tedford made note that the Committee hears and appreciates the comments and concerns of the community and
        recognizes that this has not been an easy transition for many. She reassured the community that the Administration
        and School Committee are doing what they can for the safety of the children while taking into consideration the
        condition of the building. She made note that the kindergarten will remain at the Lower Bell School for the
        remainder of the school year and the first grade will remain at the Coffin School for the end of this school year.

        Mr. Lord thanked his custodial staff for their help in moving and accommodating the teachers and staff during this
        move. He also made note that all testing results are located on the Facilities Web page online.

        Mr. Lord noted that we have already incurred moving costs of $14,900 and the insurance deductible will be $5000.
        The insurance repairs would cover:
            •   Asbestos Abatement and Monitoring
            •   Asbestos Abatement Plan
            •   Monitoring of abatement and air testing
            •   Containment and removal of approximately 120’ of pipe insulation
            •   Moisture Remediation
            •   Remove all attic insulation
            •   HEPA Vacuum attic
            •   Antimicrobial spraying
            •   Dry out attic rafters and beams
            •   Scaffolding for staircase
            •   Demo damaged ceiling from room 5 doorway to end of hall and over staircase
            •   Demo damaged walls next on two sides of hallway
            •   Demo area may be expanded if additional damage found
            •   Replace attic insulation, ceilings and walls removed
            •   Replace knob and tube wiring in attic
            •   Rehang lighting and fire sprinkler hangers
            •   Paint

        Repairs not covered:
        •       Steam Pipe Repair - $4170
        •       Reseal Boiler - $1825
        •       Roofing Repairs - $4500 to inspect only

        The Building Inspector’s Report suggested additional ceiling repairs and carpet issues and roof issues that may need
        to be addressed. Also, any work in excess of $100,000 would typically require accessible entrance, access to all
        services and accessible bathrooms. Mr. Lord noted that the Feasibility Study Architect estimates costs would
        exceed $13M to bring the building up to code and this does not address educational deficiencies of the building
        (Gym, cafe, classroom size, breakout spaces etc.).

        Ms. Perry stated that if the Committee supports the repairs with the insurance monies, that would get us through the
        short term. We would then have a better idea of costs of repairs that may need to be done for the 18-19 school year.
        We are currently holding kindergarten registrations and hopefully by early spring we will have an idea of
        enrollment numbers for next year.




                                                                  3
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                      2/12/2018

        Mr. Lord stated that the insurance company has already contracted with the remediation contractor but must wait
        for the abatement person to finish his report. The abatement report must be done first, however, they are booked
        during school vacation and will come to Gerry the week after vacation. Also, the movers etc. have to get their work
        done before the abatement person is in the building doing his work.

        Mr. Harris moved to proceed with the repairs as outlined. The motion was seconded by Ms. Schaeffner and the
        Committee VOTED unanimously in favor, 4-0.

        Ms. Tedford noted that the Committee is asking the Superintendent to proceed with an analysis for retirement of
        facilities based on SC policy.

    2. Gerry Building Committee Update
       Mr. Harris noted that the Gerry Building Committee will be meeting on Thursday, February 15th at the Glover
       School Cafetorium at 7pm. They will be moving forward with final vote that will allow the architect and the OPM
       to submit the preliminary design program to the MSBA. Then the Building Committee will have approximately 14-
       21 days for comment to come back. The submission is a summary of many documents such as the Statement of
       Interest, existing conditions, Committee members, a record of the 48-50 meetings that have been held, and
       documented minutes. Also included are key documents such as the space studies for 160 and 450 and test fits for
       the sites and locations that were chosen as well as the final list of six and the Superintendent’s Educational
       Visioning plan. The meeting will be a joint meeting with the School Committee. The Building Committee will
       take their vote and the recommendation flows through to the School Committee to authorize the submittal of the
       PDP to be sent to the MSBA. The Building Committee will then review the six options chosen and the architect
       and OPM will talk about what will take place over the next four to six meetings.

        Mr. Harris noted that they have decided on a forum date of Tuesday, March 6th in the evening with the location to
        be determined at a later time and Wednesday, March 7th for a morning presentation.

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
        Ms. Tedford thanked Mr. James Maroney and the three students helping him tape this evening. She also thanked
        all those in attendance this evening.

     B. Correspondence

     C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn the meeting was made and seconded. The Committee VOTED unanimously to adjourn. The
        public session of the meeting ended at 9:45pm.

                                                                            Respectfully submitted,
                                                                            Kate Lipsitz
                                                                            Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
Minutes: 1/25/18; 1/31/18; 2/5/18
DECA Field Overnight Field Trip
Superintendent’s Goals Update:
     PBIS
     Service Learning
     Curriculum/Science/Health & Wellness
     IDashboard
MHS Program of Study
Schedule of Bills
Kindergarten Tuition for 2018-2019
Rental Facilities 2018-2019
Gerry Repair


Approved 3/19/2018




                                                             4
