                                            School Committee Minutes

                                           Thursday, February 15, 2018

                                         Glover School Conference Room



Members present:                    Jenn Schaeffner, Dave Harris, Meredith Tedford, Kate Lipsitz



Also present:                       Maryann Perry, Superintendent



I.    Initial Business
       Call to Order
      Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 6:01pm.

II.   District Report
      Ms. Tedford explained that Cindy Schieffer reached out to the Ethics Commission because Cindy is an abutter
      to the Bud Orne site for the Feasibility Study for the Gerry/Coffin/Bell. If the School Committee approves the
      exemption, Cindy would remain on the Gerry School Building Committee in full capacity until a site is chosen
      for the new school. If Bud Orne is chosen as the site, Cindy would need to go through the process of
      exemption again. Ms. Tedford explained that legal counsel has a more conservative view of this issue than
      MASC on this matter. Ms. Schieffer spoke with a lawyer from the State Ethics Commission.


III. Public Comment
      Catherine Martin spoke in support of Ms. Schieffer remaining on the committee. She said that she respects
      Ms. Schieffer for her participation.

      Emily Barron spoke on behalf of Ms. Schieffer’s dedication and commitment to the committee and she
      believes that keeping her on the committee is the best for everyone.

      Jackie Belf-Becker said that however the School Committee votes in this matter, it needs to be disclosed at the
      Gerry Building Committee meeting.

      Jim Zisson supports Ms. Schieffer in continuing on the Committee. He feels that Ms. Schieffer has integrity of
      the highest caliber. He mentioned that she has always mentioned to the committee that she is an abutter.

      Superintendent Perry said that she has been in the district for six years and Ms. Schieffer has always supported
      the district in many ways.

      Discussion:
      A motion was made to approve the exemption so that Ms. Schieffer may remain a full participant of the
      Gerry/Coffin/Bell building committee by Ms. Schaeffner and seconded by Ms. Lipsitz. Mr. Harris said that
      Ms. Schieffer has always been open and honest. He thinks that the fact that she went forward was the
      appropriate way to move forward. Ms. Schaeffner has no concerns. Ms. Tedford said it would be a detriment
      not to have Ms. Schieffer on the committee. The vote to grant the exemption was unanimous.

IV. Adjournment
    Motion to adjourn. Unanimous vote at 6:26 p.m.


Approved SC 3/19/2018
