                                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                                      3/19/2018
                                         Superintendent’s Conference Room

Members Present:                           Meredith Tedford, Kate Lipsitz, Jennifer Schaeffner

Also:                                      Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                           Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                           Rachel Bowen, Director of Human Resources

Members Absent:                            David Harris

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 8:15am. Ms. Schaeffner made motion to go into executive session for
        the purpose of Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A section 21(a) to discuss strategy with respect to collective
        bargaining because an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the school
        committee and with the intent to return to open session. The motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and the
        Committee VOTED on a roll call vote, 3-0 in favor.

8:41am Return to Public Session

     B. Commendations
     C. Public Comment
     D. Student Representative

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
    1. Minutes: 2/12/2018; 2/15/2018 6pm; 2/15/2018 7pm: 2/15/2018 SC & GESBC
       Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the minutes of 2/12/2018; 2/15/2018 6pm; 2/15/2018 7pm: 2/15/2018 SC &
       GESBC. The motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz. The Committee VOTED unanimously, 3-0, in favor.

     2. Veterans Middle School requesting books to be declared as surplus
        Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the list of books presented by the Veterans Middle School as surplus. The
        motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and the Committee VOTED unanimously in favor, 3-0.

     3. Liability release form update
        Ms. Perry noted that since the School Committee changed the seatbelts requirement on the field trip request form, it
        was also necessary to change the language in the Release of Liability form. This form was changed with the
        recommendation of legal.
        Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the Release of Liability form with noted changes. The motion was
        seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and the Committee VOTED unanimously in favor, 3-0.

     4. School Attorney Contract
        Ms. Tedford explained that the legal firm of Deutsch Williams will be ceasing operations on March 31, 2018. The
        attorneys in the Deutsch Williams School and Labor Employment Law Departments have formed a new law firm
        and will be available to continue representation as “ Valerio, Dominello & Hillman, LLC” effective April 1, 2018.
        If we choose to have the attorneys at Valerio, Dominello & Hillman continue representation, we need to sign this
        letter which will signify our decision.

        Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve and sign the document stating we will continue representation with
        Valerio, Dominello & Hillman, LLC. The motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and the Committee VOTED
        unanimously in favor, 3-0.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                      03/19/2018

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        1. Food services presentation
           Ms. Maniaci noted that currently, all operating costs of the district wide food services program are met within
           the Food Services Revolving fund. There is no original annual appropriation to the Food Services Revolving
           Fund. Expenses are sustained through revenues into the fund within a fiscal year from the following sources:
                 • Sales of meals (breakfast, lunch, a la carte snacks both student and faculty)
                 • Catering sales (by request in district meal service for professional development, district meetings,
                     student organizations and miscellaneous requests)
                 • Federal School Meals Subsidy (reimbursement formula of student meals participation)
                 • State School Meals Subsidy (reimbursement formula of student meals participation)

           Expenses associated with District Food Services paid from these revenue sources are:
              • Food Services payroll
              • Medicare payments associated with payroll
              • Existing and retired staff benefits (insurance/GIC/Medicare)
              • Food (groceries/commodities to prepare for service)
              • Supplies
              • Other (Contractual shoe allowance, telephone and mileage reimbursement - Food Services Director only -
                   and transportation of commodities)
              • Equipment (new/replacement/repair)

           Additional pressures within these expenses categories:
              • Absorbing contractual increases within the Food budget, no Town funding
              • Rising health insurance costs for Food Services staff – funded within Food budget
              • Rising health insurance costs of Food Services retirees – funded within Food budget
              • Increasing restrictive Federal and State mandates on meals purchased and served to students – decreasing
                   options and portions leading to lower food sales
              • Increasing restrictive Federal and State mandates on vending machine options and ‘snack bar’ a la carte
                   options, which we a strong revenue source in our schools
              • Rising expenses including kitchen equipment maintenance, food and transportation costs

           To balance these expenditures, allowing for Food Services to continue self-sustaining/self-funded program
           expenses within its revolving fund, and without support or funding transfers from the district operating budget,
           we are recommending a .25 cent increase across all categories of the meal pricing structure. Change in meals fee
           structure does NOT affect current practices or eligibility of free and reduced applications or participation. In
           accordance with federal and state practices we will continue to administer these programs. Reduced priced
           cannot be changed as rate is set by federal regulation. Ms. Maniaci noted that the increase will be voted on at
           the March 22, 2018 SC meeting.

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills:
        #16167            $227,638.16
        #16182            $287,658.13
        #16188            $ 41,215.50
        #16217            $    152.00
        #16221            $    340.00
        #16227            $ 23,852.99
        #16228            $ 27,317.90
        #16231            $ 3,675.00
        #16232            $ 27,528.72
                          $639,378.40




                                                             2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                     03/19/2018

        Ms. Lipsitz made motion to accept the schedule of bills totaling $639,378.40. The motion was seconded by Ms.
        Schaeffner and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 3-0, in favor.

2. Budget Executive Summary:
   Ms. Maniaci noted that there has been consistency with the past couple of months in the salary lines. An increase in
   overtime hours was incurred during the Gerry School moves to Coffin and Lower Bell. Some of these expenses may be
   reimbursable from insurance. We will update as appropriate with communications from the insurance company.
   Variables, as in every year, include winter/snow OT hours and medical/leave situations. We continue to monitor
   custodial OT hours closely, use in house substitution when possible without additional hours and bill OT hours to
   appropriate funds outside of the operating budget as appropriate (building rental and athletic/fine arts). There were
   several transfers to fund the special education lines which came from either vacated position, consolidated positions or
   some position no longer needed. We are trying to keep pace with the tuition-out but may qualify for hardship state funds
   if our deficit continues.

   Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the list of transfers presented. The motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and the
   Committee VOTED unanimously, 3-0, in favor.

3. Y19 Budget Presentation 1
   This is a level budget, level services budget. Expense lines have no changes. Several important factors were noted:
    1. We must maintain all expenses (costs) of the Gerry School upkeep until it is given back to the town. Before the
         Gerry School budget can be closed, we would have to turn the building over to the Town with a vote.
    2. Once contract negotiations are finished, the budget number will change.

   FY19 Preliminary Budget Highlights
     • Current FY19 School budget request is $37,156,508 constituting a 1.69% increase over FY18 total budget of
     $36,539,604
     • Funds contractual step and grade (no cola) increases across all units
     • $616,904 contractual increase in salaries as agreed upon with Town Finance
     • This contractual increase funding is subject to change pending outcomes of collective bargaining across all units –
     Town will fund increases from bargaining outcomes if applicable
     • Level expenses budgets
     • Principals and departments across the district submitted level expense budget requests – High School has some re-
     appropriations of account lines within level services/expenses
     • Central/District expense lines are level services/expenses
     • Align with curriculum strategy and long term plan, facilities and technology long term planning, and
     Superintendent’s/District goals
     • Gerry School budget stands as unique account location code pending further action per guidance of Department of
     Education Financial Services

    Superintendent Perry also noted that School Security and Protocols will be looked at and she anticipates bringing
    different programs into the district. She hopes to continue to educate teachers to hear as many options as possible on
    different scenarios.

    Ms. Tedford gave a brief description of what encompasses regular maintenance which is part of our budget and what is
    considered capital improvement and extraordinary maintenance which at times may need to be on an override town
    article.

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   Bell Coffin Gerry Building Committee update
   Ms. Perry noted that there were two public forums. Good questions were asked and the process from here on in was
   explained. She stated that she and Mr. Lord attended PTO and other school groups to further answer questions.
   Mr. Lord noted that the PDP at MSBA has been marked up for review. On Tuesday, March 20th the Building
   Committee will begin developing criteria to narrowing down the sites to one preferred site. On March 27th , there will
   be another Bell Coffin Gerry Building Committee meeting to continue to narrow down the options and then on April
   5th the School Committee will attend the Building Committee meeting to hear the final vote on the preferred site.



                                                             3
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                      03/19/2018


    On April 12th at the Building Committee will attend the School Committee’s meeting where the School Committee will
    discuss the preferred option and recommendation and will be able to ask the Building Committee any necessary
    questions before they vote.

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
        Discussion followed regarding the possible need for a policy regarding student walk-outs. Superintendent Perry
        noted she is working with the attorney for guidance in this area and will return to the Committee at a later date.

    B. Correspondence

    C. Adjournment
       The Committee VOTED unanimously to adjourn the meeting at 10:26 am.

                                                                            Respectfully submitted,
                                                                            Kate Lipsitz
                                                                            Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
Minutes: 2/12/2018; 2/15/2018 6pm; 2/15/2018 7pm: 2/15/2018 SC & GESBC
Veterans Middle School requesting books to be declared as surplus
Liability release form update
School Attorney Contract
Food Service Presentation
Schedule of Bills
YTD Budget Executive Summary
FY19 Budget Presentation (1 of 2)




Approved SC Mtg 4/12/18




                                                                    4
