                Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                       and the Marblehead School Committee
                                   Meeting Minutes
                                   March 20, 2018
                  Glover School Cafeteria– 9 Maple Street – 7:00PM

Building Committee Members Present: Emily Barron, Jackie Belf‐Becker (non‐voting),
Ben Berman, Sarah Fox, Ken Lord, Amanda Maniaci, John McGinn, Maryann Perry, Jeremy
Pollender, Elizabeth Rudzinski, Sean Satterfield, Bob Schaeffner (non‐voting), Cindy
Schieffer, Aimee Sheppard, Ralph Wallace, Erik Weibust, Donna Zaeske, Jim Zisson and Ben
Szalewicz.

Building Committee Members Absent: Eileen D’Amour, Dave Harris, Kelly Lyons,
Catherine Martin, Richard Matthews.

School Committee Members Present: Maryann Perry, Meredith Tedford, Kate Lipsitz and
Jennifer Schaeffner.

School Committee Members Absent: Dave Harris

Guests: David Saindon, Jim Rogers and Brian Dakin (Leftfield), Gene Raymond and John
Bartecchi (RDA).

   1. Call to order
      Mr. Wallace called the Building Committee meeting to order at 7:00PM.
      Ms. Tedford called the School Committee meeting to order at 7:00PM.

   2. Approval of Building Committee Minutes from 03/20/2018
      Mr. Saindon indicated the minutes were sent out on the previous night, that edits
      were received today and that a new draft was emailed to the Committee prior to this
      meeting. A motion to approve the updated minutes from the 03/20/18 meeting was
      made by Ms. Fox. The motion was seconded by Ms. Zaeske and passed unanimously
      by those present tonight and at the March 20th meeting, 14‐0‐5‐3.
      (Yes/No/Absent/Abstained).
      Mr. Berman, Mr. Satterfield and Ms. Schieffer abstained, as they were absent at the
      March 20th meeting.

   3. Approval of Building Committee Invoices and Commitments
      Mr. Wallace indicated that there were no invoices or commitments for Building
      Committee (“BC”) review and approval tonight.

   4. Chairman Update(s):
      Mr. Wallace welcomed the School Committee (“SC”) to the joint meeting and turned
      the floor over to Ms. Tedford, who introduced the School Committee and explained
      the reasons that the SC asked for this to be a joint meeting. She noted that this was
      an important juncture for both Committees and that it’s important for the SC to have
      an awareness and confidence level with the feasibility study process leading into
      such a big milestone in a few weeks when the BC will select a preferred option and

18_0327 GESBC Minutes_final
Page 1 of 9
                Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                       and the Marblehead School Committee
                                   Meeting Minutes
                                   March 20, 2018
                  Glover School Cafeteria– 9 Maple Street – 7:00PM

      the SC will vote on whether to support that option. She continued that the SC wants
      to understand both the criteria the BC will use for selection of the final option and
      the BC’s rational behind the ability of all stakeholders to come together behind this
      option. Additionally she indicated it was important for the SC to hear directly from
      all involved parties including the BC and attendees of BC meetings. She noted there
      was a lot to accomplish at tonight’s meeting and other upcoming ones, indicated all
      public comment would be held at the end of the meeting and asked all Committee
      members to keep decorum and speak through the Chair. She noted that there has
      been a tendency for the BC to step backwards and re‐study items that were
      previously vetted and reminded the BC that its next step is to select the project’s site
      and preferred option among the two remaining.

      Mr. Wallace noted that as discussed at the previous BC meeting, comments on the
      PDP submission were received from the MSBA and subsequently that Mr. Lord
      posted them on the BC Dropbox. He noted that responses to these comments are
      due back to MSBA by April 2 and reiterated that a number of the questions are
      specific and are able to be addressed directly and succinctly by the consultant team
      and School Department while other responses will require more detailed
      explanations. He indicated that he felt that the pending responses to the PDP do not
      have any material impact on any decisions that the BC needs to make tonight or at
      the next meetings, and specifically noted that the Initial Space Summary (“ISS”) was
      not going to be locked down between now and the April 2 PDP response deadline.
      He noted that the team is going to respond in a thoughtful way to the comments, but
      the BC’s focus should be on site and preferred option selection. Finalization of the
      ISS will occur regardless of which of the remaining options is selected later in April
      and in May during the Preferred Schematic Report (“PSR”) phase.
      Mr. Weibust asked a question about an MSBA comment on page 11 of the PDP
      response comments which suggested a different enrollment of 340 might need to be
      studied. Ms. Perry replied that the team was told when the PDP was being
      developed that the MSBA looks at SPED programs as being unique community‐to‐
      community and based on the referenced comment assumed that the MSBA might
      believe that SPED classrooms are be emptied at Glover to move into new spaces in
      the new building, but that in practice this would not be the case. She indicated that
      the team has a meeting scheduled for this Friday to discuss this with MSBA, and in
      general felt that miscommunication is what most likely resulted in this comment.
      The BC further discussed where this comment might have arisen from, how SPED
      services are handled in the existing schools and how they would be handled in both
      of the remaining options. Mr. Wallace noted he felt this comment might be intended
      as an exercise to challenge the project’s space plan and via the discussion find a
      better understanding of the BC and project’s thinking. He noted he did not feel that
      the MSBA is literally asking for a 340‐student option to be considered in addition to
      the two 450‐student options remaining under consideration. Ms. Tedford asked for

18_0327 GESBC Minutes_final
Page 2 of 9
                Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                       and the Marblehead School Committee
                                   Meeting Minutes
                                   March 20, 2018
                  Glover School Cafeteria– 9 Maple Street – 7:00PM

      RDA or Leftfield’s opinion on the matter, and Mr. Saindon responded that the
      project’s enrollment only contained two options for study and that neither were
      340. Mr. Weibust requested that a summary of the School Department’s response to
      the MSBA about this item be provided to the BC in advance of the next meeting, and
      Ms. Perry noted it would be provided.

   5. OPM/Designer Update(s)
      Mr. Raymond reviewed updates regarding traffic, wetlands flagging (completed),
      geotechnical borings (completed), and general building massing. He noted that as a
      follow‐up to the last meeting’s discussion he spoke with the traffic engineer who
      was non‐committal about the possibility of a traffic signal at West Shore Drive.
      Highlights for the Bell site option include test borings showing ledge (which was
      expected) but also some areas of soil which would require replacement for
      structural reasons, and a likely subsurface stormwater retention basin under the
      downhill parking lot. Mr. Raymond reviewed site sections and shadow studies
      which showed little direct impact to abutters. Mr. Raymond presented similar
      updates for the Bud Orne site options, highlighting the problematic site exit onto
      Fader Place, concerns that exiting traffic could back up into the site and completed
      wetlands flagging which slightly (but manageably) encroaches on the parking area.
      The BC discussed the impact of the wetlands perimeter, the ability to
      relocate/replicate wetlands at a 1:2 ratio onsite, and the potential impact to the
      space available for outdoor play. Mr. Raymond continued the update, including
      showing space for a subsurface stormwater retention basin under the main parking
      area and boring results which show the expected shallow ledge across the site. Mr.
      Raymond also presented site sections that showed a more direct impact on abutting
      structures due to the proximity of the building to the property line and because it is
      a 3‐story configuration. Shadow study showed multiple impacted abutting
      properties and structures. The BC discussed an option that would eliminate
      vehicular site egress onto Fader Place. Mr. Raymond noted that this option was
      previously looked at, and that his team felt that sending the exiting traffic deeper
      into the neighborhood did not fix the issues with vehicular congestion. The
      Committee further discussed additional development options and tweaks to the Bud
      Orne option, with Mr. Berman noting that he felt this option needed some more
      development to ensure that it was on par with the development of the Bell site
      option.

      Mr. Wallace moved on to item 5c in the meeting agenda and asked Ms. Perry for an
      update, who noted she was asked to put together plan for student reassignment
18_0327 GESBC Minutes_final
Page 3 of 9
                Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                       and the Marblehead School Committee
                                   Meeting Minutes
                                   March 20, 2018
                  Glover School Cafeteria– 9 Maple Street – 7:00PM

      during construction. She proceeded to present slides summarizing the plan to house
      Bell and Gerry Kindergarten classes at the Eveleth School, Bell and Gerry First grade
      classes at the Coffin School, Bell and Coffin Second grade classes at the Coffin School,
      and Bell and Coffin Third grade classes at the Village School. She noted that per
      DESE guidelines bussing was required for students residing more than 2 miles from
      a school site, that shuttle bus transportation to and from Eveleth would be provided
      at T.B.D. stops in the Bell and Coffin school neighborhoods, and that staggered start
      times would be determined. She noted that outsourcing bussing in this plan could
      potentially have a $72k cost impact, that $15‐25k would be required for moving
      classroom and building furniture and technology and that $10‐25k in work would
      be required at the Eveleth including carpets, locks, paint and playground equipment.
      Members of both Committees held a spirited debate about many factors of this plan,
      including temporary traffic considerations, the impact to education and temporary
      measures to control traffic and prevent congestion and unsafe conditions. It was
      also discussed how such temporary issues and concerns should be weighed against
      the long‐term benefit to the Town and it’s students. It was agreed that the details of
      temporary traffic management were not within the scope of the Building Committee
      to plan and implement, while several members of the Building Committee noted that
      such details are important in their final deliberation about which remaining option
      was more beneficial.

      Mr. Wallace moved the discussion to meeting agenda item 5d, selection criteria for
      the preferred option. Mr. Saindon indicated that he sent out a draft/proposed list of
      criteria to the BC late last week. He indicated that the list was separated into
      “current” and “on hold” categories. The current category includes geographic
      location in Town, off‐street parking / queuing for student drop‐off and pick‐up,
      neighborhood impact, outdoor play area, regulatory/approval risk and complexity,
      cost and educational impact during construction. Items that were in the “oh hold”
      category included programmatic parity across the District (removed because both
      remaining options are 450‐student schools that would be equal in delivering parity
      to the school district), delivery of education (both options are based on new
      constriction of a full space program), external‐to‐the‐site traffic (as it was
      determined to be covered by the existing/current neighborhood impact item),
      design flexibility (neutral between remaining sites), responsible
      design/sustainability (neutral between remaining sites) and voter risk (as it was
      determined to be covered by the existing/current regulatory/approval risk and
      complexity. Mr. Schaeffner thanked Mr. Saindon for preparing the summary and

18_0327 GESBC Minutes_final
Page 4 of 9
                Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                       and the Marblehead School Committee
                                   Meeting Minutes
                                   March 20, 2018
                  Glover School Cafeteria– 9 Maple Street – 7:00PM

      suggested that Item 4 on the “on hold” list, design flexibility, be moved to the
      current criteria because he felt at this point it’s clear that the two sites differ
      significantly in this respect, especially considering 2 versus 3 stories. He also noted
      that on the current list, Traffic is worthy of it’s own item and should be independent
      of scale and massing.

      Ms. Schieffer made a motion for the Building Committee to separate traffic from the
      current “neighborhood impact (traffic/scale/massing)” criteria and create a stand‐
      alone criteria for “traffic” on the current list. Ms. Fox seconded the motion, which
      was approved unanimously by the members of the Building Committee present, 17‐
      0‐5‐0.

      The Building Committee discussed what the “geographic location in Town” item
      meant to various members, and not formal action was taken.

      Several BC members expressed concern that the view that both sites are neutral in
      terms of “delivery of education” is no longer accurate. Items noted included 2
      stories at Bell versus 3 at Bud Orne, and the discussed Bus Orne issues including the
      proximity to neighbors, wetlands possibly causing outdoor play to shrink and
      general site congestion.

      Ms. Perry made a motion to move the “delivery of education” criteria back onto the
      current list of criteria to be used for selection. Mr. Berman seconded the motion,
      which was approved unanimously by the members of the Building Committee
      present, 17‐0‐5‐0.

      After further discussion about the “geographic location within Town” item, it was
      noted that the item would remain and that individual Building Committee members
      could choose if both sites were neutral and score them the same, or if they felt one
      was more favorable this could be reflected in their scoring.

      Mr. Wallace and Mr. Weibust asked Mr. Saindon to explain his thoughts on the
      options on how and whether to weight the categories and use them to arrive at a
      preferred option. Mr. Saindon proceeded to outline three general options. Option A
      involved applying a weight to each criteria, and he noted that this was not preferred
      in previous discussions. Option B involved providing the criteria to the Committee
      then allowing individual members to score each individual one on a scale from 0‐4.

18_0327 GESBC Minutes_final
Page 5 of 9
                Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                       and the Marblehead School Committee
                                   Meeting Minutes
                                   March 20, 2018
                  Glover School Cafeteria– 9 Maple Street – 7:00PM

      Sub‐option B.1 would tally the scores to determine the final decision, and sub‐
      option B.2 would cast the selection criteria as a tool for each individual member to
      use by selecting which option was more advantageous criteria‐by‐criteria, revealing
      an option with more preferable tally of strengths and a single vote in favor of a
      particular option by each Building Committee member. Option C was to use these
      selection criteria as a general guide for each Committee member, to not assign
      numerical scoring values, and to then have a roll call vote.

      After discussion, Mr. Berman made a motion to adopt Option C as the final means by
      which the Building Committee members would arrive at a preferred solution: the
      approved criteria from tonight’s meeting will be distributed to the Building
      Committee and individual members can use them to aid in their determination of
      which option they will support in a roll call vote at a pending meeting. Mr. Weibust
      seconded the motion, which was approved unanimously by the members of the
      Building Committee present, 17‐0‐5‐0.

      Mr. McGinn made a motion to approve the revised final 10 criteria to be used for
      selection of the preferred option as presented and amended tonight. The motion
      was seconded by Mr. Berman and approved unanimously by the members of the
      Building Committee present, 17‐0‐5‐0.

      Ms. Lipsitz made a motion to adjourn the School Committee meeting at 9:01. The
      motion was seconded by Ms. Tedford and approved unanimously by the members of
      the School Committee present, 4‐0‐1‐0.

      Mr. Wallace asked Mr. Saindon to provide an update for agenda item 5e, a schedule
      update and PSR nest steps. Mr. Saindon highlighted the following meetings and
      dates:
           April 2nd – District PDP MSBA comments due
           April 5th – Joint Building Committee and School Committee Meeting at 7PM
             – Glover. Agenda ‐ Building Committee selects preferred option.
           April 12th – Joint Building Committee and School Committee Meeting at
             7PM – High School Library. Agenda ‐ School Committee to vote on preferred
             option.
           May 3rd ‐ Joint Building Committee and School Committee Meeting at 7PM –
             Glover. Agenda ‐ School and Building Committee’s to approve PSR to be
             submitted to the MSBA.

18_0327 GESBC Minutes_final
Page 6 of 9
                Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                       and the Marblehead School Committee
                                   Meeting Minutes
                                   March 20, 2018
                  Glover School Cafeteria– 9 Maple Street – 7:00PM

             May 9th – PSR due to the MSBA

   6. PSR Update(s):
      Covered above.

   7. New Business
      Mr. Berman asked when responses to previous BC questions can be provided and
      noted that the next meeting is when the preferred option is supposed to be selected.
      Mr. Zisson noted inclusion of the pending response to MSBA PDP comments. Mr.
      Weibust asked if an update can be provided to the BC after the meeting Ms. Perry
      indicated was scheduled with the MSBA on Friday.
      Mr. Berman expressed his opinion that the proposed Bud Orne scheme should be
      changed to reflect neighborhood concerns with traffic egress onto fader Place. Mr.
      Schaeffner disagreed because the BC had already selected the schemes to consider
      for the purpose of selecting a site, noting any design modifications would have
      detrimental effects on other already challenging conditions on the Bud Orne scheme
      and any such modification would have negligible impact on the overall viability of
      this scheme. After further discussion, Mr. Saindon noted that the team would work
      to get the BC updates to the Bud Orne option based on comments tonight including
      not exiting onto Fader Place, access to handicapped parking, impact to outdoor play
      size, and the location of the outdoor garden in advance of the next meeting.

      Mr. Saindon asked Mr. McGinn for an update regarding the follow‐up to a comment
      about the Town Counsel’s opinion on Article 97 applicability at Bud Orne. Mr.
      McGinn reported that he sent the letter questioning the opinion to Town Counsel
      and after consideration they stand by their original opinion as written.

   8. Community Outreach / Correspondence Received
      Mr. Lord noted that he received and passed on 12 emails to the Building Committee
      in the past few days.

   9. Public Comment
      Christy Hebert – Lafayette Street – Expressed concerned that the BC is talking about
      returning to an eliminated scheme at Bud Orne and noted that any last‐minute
      consideration of major options seems irresponsible. She concluded that the BC must
      move forward with its responsibility to choose between one of the two remaining
      options.

      Missy Fisher – 26 Sheppard Street – Noted she was an abutter to Bud Orne and
      spoke of traffic concerns all around the Bud Orne site and not just at Fader Place.
      She asked about considering the impact of ledge blasting and Mr. Wallace noted that


18_0327 GESBC Minutes_final
Page 7 of 9
                Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                       and the Marblehead School Committee
                                   Meeting Minutes
                                   March 20, 2018
                  Glover School Cafeteria– 9 Maple Street – 7:00PM

      the project will very like encounter ledge and that pre‐blast surveys including photo
      and video backup would be performed at all properties determined to be impacted.

      Kim Day – 18 Liberty Road – Asked if the selection criteria could be shared, and Mr.
      Saindon read the final 10 approved items aloud.

      Tim Wadlow – Warren Street – Thanked people for admitting there is an issue of
      traffic at Coffin School and hopes even though it’s not the direct responsibility of the
      BC that the information and situation is followed up on.

      Alastar Connor – 9 Cloutmans Lane – Suggested refinement of sidewalks and drop‐
      off configurations at the Bell site. Mr. Raymond noted that the entry loop could be
      modified to have a bus‐only lane to separate bus and parent traffic and that the
      lobby was accessible from both sides of the building, allowing for queuing space all
      around the site.

      Stephanie Callahan – Intervale Road – Noted concern that the issue of student
      displacement during construction has not received enough attention. Mr. Weibust
      noted that it’s one of the categories for judging the remaining two options against
      each other.

      Erica Greggory – 4 Fader Place – Noted that he would like the Committee to consider
      the impact to the Bud Orne neighborhood in terms of ledge handling, drainage and
      stormwater run‐off. Finished by noting there is no proximity to public
      transportation for faculty or staff at this location.

      Erin Noonan – 15 Beverly Ave – Noted that the debate within the Building
      Committee is only a portion of the debate related to this project within the Town,
      that there could be no logical answer to why open park land would be taken away at
      an inferior location, and that this Committee will have failed if it chooses an option
      that is dead on arrival in terms of the Town vote. Finished by noting that the concept
      of neighborhood schools is a zero sum game.

      Heather Konz – Fader Place – Asked about follow‐up on the previous comment at a
      Committee meeting that $350k was carried for the demolition of the Eveleth and
      site improvement costs but the Town recently identified a larger number than what
      was carried in the project. Mr. Saindon noted that he was mistaken when he
      previously answered a question and thought $350k was carried. Mr. Saindon noted
      that after review, a value closer to $750k, and much more in line with the value
      identified by the Town, was carried in the comparative cost estimates. Mr. Wallace
      agreed that what was carried by the project remains adequate.


18_0327 GESBC Minutes_final
Page 8 of 9
               Joint Meeting of the Gerry School Building Committee
                      and the Marblehead School Committee
                                  Meeting Minutes
                                  March 20, 2018
                 Glover School Cafeteria– 9 Maple Street – 7:00PM

      Paul Baker – 42 Elm Street – Asked question of school committee, who was no
      longer in session. The next School Committee meeting was noted to be on April 12th.

   10. Adjournment
       A motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Berman and seconded by Mr. Weibust. The
       motion was approved unanimously by those present, 17‐0‐5‐0. The meeting
       adjourned at 9:43PM.




18_0327 GESBC Minutes_final
Page 9 of 9
