                                   Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                                    March 22, 2018
                                                 Marblehead High School

Members Present:                          Meredith Tedford, Kate Lipsitz, Jennifer Schaeffner

Also:                                     Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                          Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                          Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                          Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations

Members Absent:                           David Harris

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 7:00pm.

     B. Commendations
        Ms. Perry stated her joy that there wasn’t any snow today. She noted that as of now, without any other snow days,
        we’ve used the 5 snow days included in our school calendar and this would bring the students’ last day to June 22nd
        and teachers’ last day to June 25th. Should we have another no school storm day however we don’t have to worry
        about how to make it up because we still have the last week of June we can work with for make-up days.

         Ms. Tedford thanked Mr. James Maroney of MHTV and the student who helped him for taping this evening’s
         meeting.

     C. Public Comment
        Stephanie Callahan, 5 Intervale Road was concerned with school safety and whether or not we have adopted ALICE,
        or other procedures. She noted she hoped the parents would receive more information. Superintendent Perry
        responded by stating that she has been discussing safety procedures at her Round Table meetings which includes
        principals, assistant principals and central administrators. In May, they plan on presenting their findings for
        discussion with SC to discuss processes, what might work for Marblehead, what we might adopt etc. Then we would
        plan to educate the community on what we are adopting and why. We hope to role this out next year and would
        appreciate the community’s efforts.

         Ms. Callahan also noted that the transition between Gerry to Bell has been a positive experience with the Bell
         community being very welcoming though the parents miss the sense of community that was developed by allowing
         parents to come into the kindergarten classes each morning.

     D. Student Representative
        Melissa Khorda, student representative.
          • Last weekend some students were invited to Montserrat College of Design and other students to the Museum of
              Fine Arts to receive awards.
          • Junior and Senior proms are coming up and class officers have begun to take steps to plan prom.
          • Regarding the Walk-in which was held to pay respects to students at Parkland High School. The students who
              took part did so in a very organized manner and were well behaved and those who gathered at the field house
              afterwards were respectful as were those who didn’t wish to participate.
          • The High School’s performance of The Sound of Music will perform on April 6th performance

7:10 PM    Public Hearing of School Choice

Superintendent Perry stated that under the provisions of the Education Reform Act of 1993, the Department of Elementary and
Secondary Education presumes that each school committee will admit non-resident students under the Choice Program unless
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                          3/22/2018

there is a vote to the contrary. Under M.G.L. Chapter 76, Section 12B, the School Committee is obliged to hold a public
hearing and vote on School Choice participation prior to June 1st of each school year.

Ms. Perry asked that the Committee take action on this matter at this meeting in order to notify the State of our decision in
accordance with the deadline. She noted that the recommendation of the Marblehead Public School district is that the
Marblehead Public Schools not participate in the School Choice program for the 2018-2019 school year due to lack of available
classroom space.

Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the recommendation that the Marblehead Public Schools not participate in the School
Choice program for the 2018-2019 school year due to lack of available classroom space. The motion was seconded by Ms.
Lipsitz and the Committee VOTED in favor, 3-0.

7:12 Close of public hearing for School Choice

Ms. Tedford noted that items on the agenda will be taken out of order in order to satisfy the time for the hearings and to allow
students to present earlier in the evening.

    2. International Career Development Conference, Atlanta, GA – ICDC-overnight and out of state
       Two students involved in DECA gave a brief explanation of what it is and why it is important. Mr. Bauer explained
       that this trip to the International Career Development Conference is the culminating event of the DECA this year and
       will take place in Atlanta, GA, from April 21-25 (4 days) with the 25th being a travel day returning home. Ms. Skalaban
       will be a chaperone for the two students attending from Marblehead High School.

        Ms. Lipsitz made motion to approve the International Career Development Conference, Atlanta, GA overnight and out
        of state trip for two students. The motion was seconded by Ms. Schaeffner and the Committee VOTED 3-0, in favor.

7:15 PM     Public Hearing of FY19 Budget

The public hearing of the FY19 Budget was presented. Superintendent Perry made note that the annual School Budget seeks to
reflect the priorities identified in the district‘s defined mission, vision and goals, with the assumption of concurrently providing
sufficient resources to ensure compliance of all federal, state and locally mandated educational programs and requirements.
The teaching philosophy and methods for Marblehead Public Schools is guided by the District’s mission, vision and core
values. These core values sustain our teaching philosophy and methods, serving as underpinnings in five critical areas:
Student Achievement; Personal Growth; Partnerships and Collaboration; School Culture; and Resources. The entire FY19
Budget power point presentation is online at: https://www.marbleheadschools.org/district/school-
committee/pages/agendas-minutes-and-presentations with the documents for the 3/22/18 SC meeting.

Ms. Tedford noted that the district has had a Master Plan since 1999 which began with build of the High School, then Veterans,
Village, and Glover and now the remaining elementary schools. Even while planning for the remaining schools, after 10-15
years, the first buildings are now in need of repairs.

Some of the Variables and Constraints are:
* Student Services
    • Special Education tuition, programming and staffing expenses
    • Special Education rising transportation costs
    • ELL
    • 504 and ADA Compliance
 * Custodial/Maintenance/Transportation Overtime
*Facilities Extraordinary Maintenance
*Substitute Use – Unit A contractually allowed sick day usage
*Eligibility and funding of Federal and State Grants
    • Ongoing reduction of Title I
    • Reduction of Special Education Federal Grant allocation
    • Reduction of Circuit Breaker reimbursement formula



                                                                 2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                      3/22/2018


* Evolving Federal and State Mandates
    • MCAS 2.0 and subsequent technology implications
    • Common Assessments

Our Efficiencies – Cost-efficient measures:
    • Copier supply provider toner and staples – researched/procure new vendor better rates
    • Cell phone provider new contract/carrier lower rate (T-Mobile)
    • MHEC co-operative purchasing savings
    • Conversion to Amazon Business under National purchasing contract to allow best purchase rates and exempt from
         purchasing limits – competitive pricing
    • Organizational email provider new contract/carrier lower rate FirstClass to free Gmail
    • Organizational ticketing provider new contract/carrier lower rate School Dude to Happy Fox
    • Elimination of the ATLAS Software licensing
    • Fees and Tuition rates brought flush with needs-based expenses
    • District wide copier lease (Ricoh) consolidation and lease-to-own purchases
    • Ongoing efforts to reduce/control unemployment insurance including seasonal certification applications and annual
         letters of reasonable assurance

Superintendent Perry noted that the Committee has already gone before the Finance Committee and they have approved the
school budget. The next steps would be the Town Warrant Public Hearing on March 26th, 2018; then the School Committee
Budget vote on April 12th, 2018; and finally the Town Meeting on May 7th, 2018 for Vote to Approve Town Budgets.

Ms. Schaeffner made note that 90% of the budget is salary and only 10% goes to everything else. She thanked all the groups
who help to serve and enrich our student’s experiences by their help and donations such as the Boosters, Athletic Clubs, the
Magic Hat, The Friends, the PTOs and the many others involved in our schools.

Ms. Tedford thanked Mr. Lord for enumerating all the expenses that come out of the maintenance budget and noted that the
budget liaisons has requested an in depth accounting of what the facility maintenance budget encompasses and suggested that
this be included in future budget presentations.

Ms. Tedford also noted that five years ago, we had approximately 20 ELL students and now we have 160 ELL students for
whom we are required to provide services.

8:25 Close of Public Hearing

Stephanie Callahan, Jocelyn Cook and Christina Weber came forward with a few budget related questions.

8:42 five minute recess
8:47 Meeting resumed

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        1. Gerry closing study presentation
           Superintendent Perry explained that School Committee Policy FCB notes that “When a school building becomes
           inadequate by virtue of age, condition, size of site, lack of need, or other overriding limitations, and cannot
           reasonably and economically be brought up to the current educational standards, the building should be considered
           for a comprehensive closing study.

           A closing study will be concerned with all or some of the following factors:
           1. Age and current physical condition of the facilities, its operating systems, and program facilities
           2. Adequacy of site, location, access, surrounding development, traffic patterns, and other environmental conditions
           3. Reassignment of children, including alternative plans according to Committee policy
           4. Transportation factors, including numbers of children bussed, time, distance and safety
           5. Alternative uses of the building


                                                              3
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                      3/22/2018

         6. Cost/Savings associated with: Personnel, Plant Operation, Transportation, Capital Investment, Alternative Use
         7. Continuity of instructional and community programs

         Superintendent Perry noted that Towns are given the authority in G.L. c. 40 section 3 to convey property by a deed
         of the Board of Selectmen, duly authorized, or by deed of a committee thereto authorized. Under this statute, all real
         estate of the Town is under the control of the Board of Selectmen, unless it was otherwise by law or by vote of the
         Town placed in the charge of any particular Board, officer, or department. If the School Committee has charge of
         the Property and intends to transfer it to the care, custody, management and control of the Board of Selectmen,
         under G.L. c. 40 section 15A, the process for this transaction is as follows:

         1. The School Committee must give notice to the Board of Selectmen that the school is no longer needed for school
             purposes.
         2. The Board of Selectmen must vote to place an article on the warrant for either a Special or Annual Town
            Meeting. The article may read:
                 a. To see if the Town will vote to transfer the care, custody, management and control of the Gerry School
                 from the School Committee to the Board of Selectmen for the purpose of selling the school, or take any
                 action relative thereto.
         3. At Town Meeting, the voters must approve the transfer by a two-thirds majority.
         4. If the transfer is approved, the Town may authorize the Board of Selectmen to sell the school and execute any
            and all necessary documents for that purpose. Aside from a sale, the Board of Selectmen may also put the
            building to alternative Municipal Use if so authorized by Town Meeting.
         5. If the Town approves the transfer and authorizes the Board of Selectmen to execute the deed and all other
            necessary documents, the Town may issue and RFP for sale of the buildings.

       Ms. Perry noted that it is the recommendation of the School Department Administrative team to close the Elbridge
       Gerry School for educational purposes.

       Ms. Tedford noted that the School Committee will vote on this recommendation at the April 12th meeting.

       Superintendent Perry stated that recognizing and honoring the history of the Elbridge Gerry School’s 112 years of
       educating students, we have come to the crossroads of the building having reached its instructional lifespan to provide
       best educational practices, in a safe environment, to students and staff within economically sound and responsible
       parameters and that it is the recommendation of the School Department Administrative team to close the Elbridge
       Gerry School for educational purposes. (the entire power point presentation is online with documents from 3/22/18 at:
       https://www.marbleheadschools.org/district/school-committee/pages/agendas-minutes-and-presentations )

       Ms. Schaeffner thanked the Superintendent and her staff for this presentation and thanked Mr. Lord for all the work
       that has been done in maintaining that school. She noted the Gerry School building has been a cherished building and
       has seen how devoted people are to this school for as long as possible. She noted that this school was built in 1906
       and marks a piece of time in this town. She noted that she hopes the Town makes a commitment to keep this building
       intact and grants it a second life by either using it as a community building, a green space and/or even to offer public
       parking.

       Ms. Tedford noted that Mr. Harris will be briefed on this issue and prepared to vote on April 12th.

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills
        #16237 $ 4,793.00
        #16272 $380,633.61
        #16278 $ 5,954.62
        #16279 $ 20,392.55
        #16280 $ 41,311.10
        #16290 $ 11,024.99
        #16291 $      602.71
                $464,712.58



                                                              4
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                        3/22/2018

          Motion to approve all schedules of bills totaling $464,712.58.

          Ms. Schaeffner made motion to accept the schedule of bills totaling $464,712.58. The motion was seconded by Ms.
          Lipsitz and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 3-0, in favor.

II. Consent Agenda& Action Items
    1. Food Services 2018-2019
       Recommendation
       To balance expenditures, allowing for Food Services to continue self-sustaining/self-funded program expenses within
       its revolving fund, and without support or funding transfers from the district operating budget, we are recommending a
       .25 cent increase across all categories of the meal pricing structure. Change in meals fee structure does NOT affect
       current practices or eligibility of free and reduced applications or participation. In accordance with federal and state
       practices we will continue to administer these programs. Reduced prices cannot be changed as rate is set by federal
       regulation.

         If we vote for this we would realize a $23,000 revenue increase. If we don’t vote to increase, we would defer repair
         equipment; potential to come back to operating budget to balance.

         Ms. Tedford noted that we will review this each year to keep pace with increases.

         Ms. Lipsitz made motion to approve the increase of .25cent across all categories of the meal pricing structure. The
         motion was seconded by Ms. Schaeffner and the Committee VOTED 3-0, in favor.

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. Gerry Building Committee Update
      Ms. Tedford stated that the BCG Building Committee met on Tuesday (3/20) and that they are getting closer to what
      the recommended site might be. They will meet again this coming Tuesday (3/27) and School Committee has decided
      to make this a joint meeting so that they can listen to the criteria presented by the Building Committee. The School
      Committee will also be present at the April 5th BCB BC meeting where the Building Committee will vote on the
      preferred recommendation. The Building Committee will be present at the April 12th School Committee meeting when
      the School Committee will vote on the decision for the preferred recommendation.

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
    B. Correspondence
        Ms. Tedford noted that the METCO Cultural dinner has been rescheduled for June 1st.
    C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn was unanimous. The public session of the meeting ended at 9:22pm.

                                                                            Respectfully submitted,
                                                                            Kate Lipsitz
                                                                            Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
Food Services 2018-2019
DECA Conference, Atlanta, GA – ICDC-overnight and out of state
School Choice
FY19 Budget 2
Gerry closing study presentation
Schedule of Bills


Approved SC Mtg 4/12/18




                                                                 5
