                                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                Joint meeting with the MPS Gerry Building Committee
                                                    April 12, 2018
                                               Marblehead High School

Members Present:                          Meredith Tedford, Kate Lipsitz,
                                          David Harris, Jennifer Schaeffner

Also:                                     Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                          Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                          Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations
                                          Rachel Bowen, Director of Human Resources
                                          Robert Bellucci, Dir of Student Services & Program Accountability

Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 6:15 pm and asked for a motion to go into executive session
        pursuant to purpose (3) of Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A section 21(a) , purpose (3) to discuss strategy
        with respect to collective bargaining with the Marblehead Education Association-Unit A and with the Marblehead
        Custodian Association because an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the
        school committee with the intention of returning to open session. The motion was made by Ms. Schaeffner and
        seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and the Committee VOTED on a roll call vote: Meredith Tedford-yes, Kate Lipsitz-yes,
        David Harris-yes, Jennifer Schaeffner-yes.

7:00 pm Return to Open Session

Open Session

I.   Initial Business and Public Involvement (continued)
     A. Commendations
          Magic Hat Thrift Shop
          Superintendent Perry thanked the Magic Hat thrift shop as they announced that they reached a million dollar mark
          after presenting the schools with $81,000.00. Their total given to the school since 2005 has now reached
          $1,025,000. She thanked the Board Members of the Magic Hat Thrift Shop and all the parents who volunteered
          during the school year.

         The Superintendent thanked them on behalf of the Marblehead Public Schools for their generosity and hard work.

         Ms. Schaeffner commended the cast and crew, the music director, parents and all those associated with the
         production of the Sound of Music.

     B. Public Comment
        Paul Baker-42 Elm Street, noted that he felt the Coffin School is overcrowded and unfit to house the Gerry
        students.

         Katie Elliott-39 Mugford Street stated that she lives a house away from the Gerry school and noted the importance
         of the playground to the neighborhood and that since the school has closed, cars are parked in the lot all day and
         night causing safety concerns and leaving little room for the children to play.

     C. Student Representative
        Melissa Khorda, School Committee Student Rep noted that:
            • The National Art Honor Society had a successful student auction
            • The Seniors will be leaving after the break to begin their Senior Projects
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                       4/12/2018

             •    Acappellooza will occur on May 4th

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
    1. Gerry Bldg. Committee Preferred Site Selection
       Mr. Harris called the meeting to order for the Building Committee in order for them to be present for the preferred
       site selection (7:15pm). Mr. Harris gave a brief summary of the make-up of the Committee members; a timeline
       of the Project History; the Preliminary Design Options; the final options and the vote on April 5th to unanimously
       select the Bell 450L as the preferred site and recommendation to the School Committee.

         Ms. Tedford opened the floor to the Building Committee.

         Ben Berman, FinCom Rep to the Building Committee made note that they worked hard at trying to make the Bud
         Orne site fit so that there would be a school on the north side of town but in the end it didn’t meet the
         specifications needed for a 450 school with appropriate parking, playground and with the MPS Educational
         Vision. He noted that the Bell site is the right fit and the best site presented to the committee.

         Mr. Harris made motion to accept the recommendation of the Gerry Building Committee for the Bell 450L as the
         preferred site. The motion was seconded by Ms. Schaeffner and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 4-0 in
         favor.

         Ms. Schaeffner thanked Mr. Harris and all the members of the Building Committee.
         Mr. Harris reminded the community that there is a link for the Bell/Coffin/Gerry Feasibility which lays all the
         years with projects and schedules in chronological order.

         Mr. Harris moved to adjourn the Gerry Bldg. committee meeting at 7:37pm. The motion was made by Mr. Berman
         and seconded by Sarah Fox.

    2.   Consideration of and vote to approve a successor collective bargaining agreement with the Marblehead
         Education Association-Unit A covering the period from September 1, 2018 through August 31, 2021
         Ms. Tedford thanked the Union for their support as they entered into negotiations with teachers. Ms. Perry also
         thanked the teacher negotiation team of Joan Miller, Robin Feins and Randy Guthartz. Ms. Tedford noted that the
         Union ratified the Unit A contract today at 3:15pm. Ms. Perry stated that we will continue to meet for the next
         couple of weeks regarding the remaining bargaining units. Ms. Tedford stated that the increase is for 7% over the
         next three years.

         Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the CBA with Unit A. The motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and the
         Committee VOTED unanimously in favor, 4-0. Mr. Harris made note that this will be fully funded without an
         override and without any layoffs.

    3.   Consideration of and vote to approve a settlement agreement regarding overtime with the Marblehead
         Custodians Association.
         Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the settlement agreement regarding overtime with the Marblehead
         Custodians Association. The motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and the Committee VOTED unanimously in
         favor, 4-0.

    4.   SC Minutes: 3/19/2018; 3/22/2018
         Ms. Lipsitz made motion to approve the minutes of 3/19/2018 and 3/22/2018. The motion was seconded by Ms.
         Schaeffner. The Committee VOTED unanimously, 4-0, in favor.

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        1. Gerry Closing Study Recommendation vote
             Ms. Tedford explained that the Committee has spent many hours discussing this issue. Ms. Perry noted that the
             Committee gave her a charge to determine if the Gerry school was needed as an educational facility. All areas
             were researched and there were discussions with many regarding building issues, the condition of the building
             and the educational appropriateness of the building. Superintendent Perry asked Mr. Lord to further explain



                                                             2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                         4/12/2018

            some of the issues. Mr. Lord noted that the insurance work continues at the Gerry school. The steam leak in
            the attic damaged the attic insulation so that must now be removed. The removal of the insulation revealed
            knob and tube wiring and now that has to be brought up to code. The knob and tube wiring must be removed
            out of the attic in order to replace the insulation. Also, all the second floor lighting will now not meet code and
            all those lights will need to be replaced. The insurance is only covering 1/3 of the lighting costs. Recently, the
            demolition of the damaged plaster was just completed and now plasterer will come in, followed by the
            electrician. It looks likes there will be several more weeks of insurance contractors in the building.

            Superintendent Perry stated that the recommendation is to retire the school. She’s been in contact with the
            police chief about one way street and is also working with the Rec and Park regarding the parking lot and
            playground. In addition, she is trying to work with the community regarding people not cleaning up after their
            pets. Ms. Perry did note that regardless of whether or not we vote to retire that building as a school building,
            we, the school district, will still have to maintain that building until May of 2019. Mr. Lord noted that the
            trash barrels will return and they will be emptied regularly.

            Superintendent Perry stated that we will maintain the building until May of 2019 at which time we will need to
            decide whether or not we want to continue to hold on to that building. If we do not, we will place a warrant
            article on the 2019 Warrants to return the building to the Town of Marblehead. Currently, the vote is to state
            that we no longer will use that building for an educational facility. The next decision will be to determine if we
            want to retain ownership of that building before next year’s town meeting.

            Ms. Schaeffner made motion to support the recommendation of the Administration to retire the Gerry School
            Building as a school building and the motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz. Mr. Harris stated that he was away
            when the decision was originally discussed and noted that he would abstain from voting. Ms. Tedford noted
            that she is not going to delay the vote. The Committee VOTED 3 in favor, 0 against, 1 abstained. The motion
            passed.

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills

         Ms. Lipsitz recused herself as there may appear to be a conflict of interest. (left 8:05pm)

         #16312 $364,439.54
         #16312 $ 5,409.24
         #16315 $ 4,585.00
         #16330 $ 17,325.68
         #16332 $ 22,245.75
                $414,005.21

         Motion to approve all schedules of bills totaling $414,005.21

         Ms. Schaeffner made motion to accept the schedule of bills totaling $414,005.21. The motion was seconded by
         Mr. Harris and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 3 in favor, 0 against 1 recused. (Ms. Lipsitz returned at
         8:06pm)

    2.   FY19 Budget vote
         Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the FY19 budget of $37,156,508 subject to change pending the outcome
         of the Collective Bargaining Agreements. Ms. Lipsitz seconded the motion and the Committee VOTED 4 in
         favor, 0 against.

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. Gerry Building Committee Update
       Mr. Harris noted that the preliminary design was submitted and the MSBA has responded to that and we are
       currently working on that with RDA Leftfield and the Superintendent and due back to the MSBA on April 23rd.
       We will then work on the Preferred Schematic Report (PSR) which is an updated PDP and due by end of May or



                                                               3
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                        4/12/2018

          May 25th. Once submitted we will await the MSBAs comments and feedback on the PSR. That will then put us in
          line for a vote on our PSR report from the MSBA and the date we have scheduled for that meeting is August 29,
          2018.

          At that stage it’s worth noting that the space study remains fluid and Mr. Bellucci has been working with the
          Superintendent on some of the educational needs and space and that will continue to be refined through the
          summer months and hopefully we’ll come up with a more final design of the square footage.

          Then after that board meeting on August 29th we will have September and October to finish the schematic design
          with the architect and that’s proposed to be submitted to the MSBA by December which will get us to a late
          January or early February time frame for the MSBA Board to vote on our schematic design which then becomes
          the design we would bring to Town Meeting with a cost associated with it.

          Mr. Harris noted that Article 2 is the report of various Town departments and this would be a good time for us to
          present a brief review and update.

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
        None

     B. Correspondence
        Superintendent Perry will draft a thank you letter to the Magic Hat.

          Ms. Schaeffner thanked The Rec and Park for working with the Committee in putting forward an Article had we
          chose the Bud Orne site.

     C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn the meeting was made and the Committee VOTED to adjourn on a unanimous vote. The
        public session of the meeting ended at 8:15 pm.

                                                                            Respectfully submitted,
                                                                            Kate Lipsitz
                                                                            Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
SC Minutes: 3/19/2018; 3/22/2018
Schedule of Bills
Preferred site options document
Gerry closing Power Point
FY19 Budget




Approved 5/17/18




                                                              4
