                                              Marblehead School Committee
                                                     April 12, 2018
                                                        6:15PM
                                                Marblehead High School
                                                       AGENDA
6:15PM
Open Session
I. Initial Business and Public Involvement
    1. Call to Order
    2. Motion and vote to meet in executive session pursuant to purpose (3) of Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A section
        21(a), purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the Marblehead Education Association-Unit
        A and with the Marblehead Custodian Association because an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining
        position of the school committee with the intention of returning to open session.

Executive Session Pursuant to M.G.L. chapter 30A section 21(a), Purpose (3)
Executive session meeting to discuss strategy regarding collective bargaining with the Marblehead Education Association-Unit A
and the Marblehead Custodian Association.

Return to Open Session

Open Session

I.   Initial Business and Public Involvement (continued)
     3. Commendations
          a. Magic Hat Thrift Shop
     4. Public Comment
     5. Student Representative

II. Consent Agenda& Action Items
    1. Gerry Bldg. Committee Preferred Site Selection                                            (vote)
    2. Consideration of and vote to approve a successor collective bargaining agreement          (vote)
       with the Marblehead Education Association-Unit A covering the period from
       September 1, 2018 through August 31, 2021.
    3. Consideration of and vote to approve a settlement agreement regarding overtime with       (vote)
       the Marblehead Custodians Association.
    4. SC Minutes:       3/19/2018; 3/22/2018                                                    (vote)

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        1. Gerry Closing Study Recommendation vote                                               (vote)

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills                                                                         (vote)
    2. FY19 Budget vote                                                                          (vote)

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. Gerry Building Committee Update

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
    B. Correspondence
    C. Adjournment
