                                  Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                                     May 3, 2018
                                            Marblehead High School Library

Members Present:                           Meredith Tedford, Kate Lipsitz, David Harris, Jennifer Schaeffner

Also:                                      Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                           Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                           Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                           Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations
                                           Rachel Bowen, Director of Human Resources
                                           Robert Bellucci, Dir. Of Student Services

Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
I.   Initial Business
     A. Call to Order
          Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 6:30 pm and asked for a motion to go into executive session
     B. pursuant to purpose (3) of Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A section 21(a) , purpose (3) to discuss strategy
          with respect to collective bargaining with the Marblehead Education Association-Unit A and with the Marblehead
          Custodian Association, Cafeteria, Tutors, Paraprofessionals and Permanent Sub because an open meeting may
          have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the school committee with the intention of returning to open
          session. The motion was made by Ms. Lipsitz and seconded by Ms. Schaeffner and the Committee VOTED on a
          roll call vote: Meredith Tedford-yes, Kate Lipsitz-yes, David Harris-yes, Jennifer Schaeffner-yes.

7:07 pm Return to Open Session

Open Session

     B. Commendations
        Ms. Tedford noted that this is Ms. Lipsitz’ last meeting as she has finished her third year term and will not be
        running for an additional term. Ms. Tedford noted that she has been an incredibly well prepared and valued
        member of the Committee and thanked her for serving.
        Superintendent Perry thanked her, on behalf of the Marblehead Public Schools, for her work and dedication to this
        Committee and in her commitment in “Keeping students first.”

         Ms. Lipsitz thanked the Town for allowing her to serve and thanked her fellow School Committee members and
         the administration.

     C. Public Comment
        Paul Baker-42 Elm Street, regarding the Gerry School.

     D. Student Representative
        Melissa Khorda, student representative.
            • Friday, May 4th, is the annual Acappellooza
            • The spring production will be The Tempest and will be presented on Friday June 1st
            • Seniors have begun their Senior Projects

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
    1. Clerks/Secretarial Compensation for FY19
       Ms. Bowen presented the recommendation of the administration to increase the salaries by 2% which is inline with
       the agreements of the bargaining units.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                        5/3/2018

       Ms. Lipsitz made motion to approve the Clerks/Secretarial Compensation for FY19 as presented. The motion was
       seconded by Mr. Harris and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 4-0, in favor.

    2. Weight room/Fitness Center Presentation
       Muffy Paquette, president of the Marblehead High School All Sports Boosters Club, and Greg Ceglarski,
       Marblehead Public School Athletic Director, came forward to ask the Committee to approve a request that would
       allow the MHC All Sports Boosters Club to proceed with fundraising to update the existing weight room. They
       presented a preliminary plan that would include revamping all areas of the existing weight room to make it more of
       a fitness room for females and non athletes as well as athletes and would include cardio equipment, an area for
       rehab, and a space for gym classes to take place.

       Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve permission to go forward with the fundraising efforts to update the MHS
       Weight Room to a Fitness Center. The motion was seconded by Mr. Harris and the Committee VOTED
       unanimously, 4-0, in favor.

    4. Consideration of and vote to approve successor collective bargaining agreements with the
       Marblehead Custodian Association, Cafeteria, Tutors, Paraprofessionals and Permanent Subs.
       Ms. Bowen thanked the leaders of the bargaining teams who worked on negotiating the collective bargaining
       agreements. She noted that all CBA have now been ratified.

       Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the CBS for the Marblehead Custodian Association, Cafeteria, Tutors,
       Paraprofessionals and Permanent Subs. The motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and the Committee VOTED
       unanimously, 4-0, in favor.

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        1. Marblehead Public Schools Professional Staff Job Descriptions
           Ms. Bowen stated that she presented the Committee with a 137 page document on all the professional roles held
           in the district and noted that the document was vetted by Central Administration and the Principals.
           She thanked Risa Hassel, the Assistant to the HR Director and Assistant to the Executive Director of
           Technology and Operations for her assistance in this endeavor.

       2. Spanish Exchange Program
          Mr. Bauer introduced Ms. Alvarez and Ms. Grose, MHS World Language Spanish teachers, who presented a
          power point on the Spanish Exchange trip. Their presentation included the purpose and objective of the
          program, the program, the homestay process, the cost, insurance, travel arrangements, safety, the schedule and
          reference.
          Ms. Perry’s recommendation to the Committee is to allow the program to take place.

          Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the Spanish Exchange Program. The motion was seconded by Ms.
          Lipsitz and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 4-0, in favor.

       3. High School Presentation
          Mr. Bauer presented the Committee with a list of students who will be presenting this evening.

       4. School Improvement Plans (Bell, Glover, Coffin/Gerry)
          The three elementary Principals: Sean Satterfield, Coffin/Gerry, Donna Zaeske, Bell, and Brian Ota, Glover
          School presented the following as their School Improvement Plans and noted that all three schools have aligned
          the curriculum so they are similar in content. They also work with the Village School Principal to ease the
          transition from 3rd grade to 4th grade. Below are the SIP goals for all three schools:

          Core Value: Student Achievement
          Strategic Goal: Curriculum, Instruction, Educator Growth

          Goal 1: Curriculum/Instruction: Science (Curriculum Alignment)


                                                            2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                          5/3/2018

          Data Sources: Science Assessments; review of curriculum products; teacher feedback

          Goal 2: Assessment/Progress Monitoring
          Data Sources: MCAS Scores, AIMSweb, Galileo Benchmarks, GO Math Assessments; Fundations; Running
          Records

          Goal 3: School Climate and Culture
          Data Sources: Teacher and Parent feedback, SWIS Data (School Wide Information System); Principal/Teacher
          Observations; School Discipline Data

          Goal 4: School Safety
          Data Sources: SWIS reports, school referral forms, teacher discussions: School Discipline Data;
          Principal/Teacher Anecdotal Observations; Behavior Logs; SWIS Data; Minutes/Agendas from School Safety
          Team and Student Crisis Team

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills
        #16372 $     635.00
        #16380 $     375.00
        #16411 $ 2,293.00
        #16415 $232,564.69
        #16419 $ 15,296.86
        #16420 $ 20,487.53
        #16421 $ 23,673.94
        #16427 $ 54,232.50
                $349,558.52

        Ms. Lipsitz made motion to accept the schedule of bills totaling $349,558.52. The motion was seconded by Mr.
        Harris and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 4-0, in favor.

   2.   YTD Budget Executive Summary
        Ms. Maniaci presented the Year to Date Budget Summary and noted that this report will require a vote due to three
        transfers.

        Ms. Lipsitz made motion to accept the YTD Budget Executive Summary with noted transfers. The motion was
        seconded by Ms. Schaeffner and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 4-0, in favor.

   3.   List of Upcoming FY19 Procurements (if any)
        Mr. Lord presented a list of upcoming procurements as well as a list of bids with accepted awards.

        Boiler Maintenance & Repairs –renew contract with Combustion Services in the amount of $$33,825
        Door & Lock Repairs – renew contract with Secure Lock and Alarm in the amount of $299,420
        Elevator Maintenance - renew one year extension to City Elevator in the amount of $221,954
        Fire Alarm Contract – renew one year extension to Ron Seaboyer in the amount of $19,3000
        HVAC general Mechanical Repairs – renew one year extension with Ambient Temperature in the amount of
        $16,150
        On Call Plumber – renew one year extension with Boston Mechanical in the amount of $23,8995
        Roofing Repair – renew one year extension with Greenwood Roofing in the amount of $24,7155

        Ms. Schaeffner made motion to accept the above list of contracts. The motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and
        the Committee VOTED unanimously, 4-0, in favor.

   4.   AHERA report:
        Superintendent Perry noted that there was an anonymous report to the Massachusetts Department of Labor and
        Standards regarding the dislodged ceiling tiles at the Gerry School stating that the district was not doing due
        diligence. The inspector came to do an AHERA report and examined the school and found everything to be


                                                            3
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                          5/3/2018

           completely in order and found no bases for the complaint received. The Superintendent read the conclusion of the
           report and remarked that the LEA noted the district was transparent and cooperative. The Superintendent also
           congratulated Mr. Lord for making certain that our plans are accessible and for receiving a thank you from a State
           Agency.

    4.    FY19 Budget Appropriation
          Ms. Maniaci presented the updated FY19 Budget Appropriation number now that the CBA have been ratified.
          The slide presented the following information:

           The FY18 Current Appropriation is $36,539,604
           The FY19 Requested Appropriation was $37,156,508
           On April 12, 2018, the School Committee voted to approve the FY19 appropriated of $37,156,508

           FY19 Requested Appropriation Updated amount after the step and grade increases is $37,874,284
            (Contractual step/grade increases (currently in budget) $616,903)
            (New contractual increases all units (including 2% cola) $717,777)
            (Requested new funding over level services/expenses lines $0)

           Which brings the total FY19 Budget increase - $1,334,680
           Percent budget increase FY18 to FY19 is 3.65%

           Ms. Schaeffner made motion to accept the updated FY19 Budget Appropriation number to $37,874,284. The
           motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 4-0, in favor.

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. Gerry Building Committee Update – Town Meeting
      Mr. Harris asked if the next School Committee meeting could be a joint meeting with the Building Committee as the
      PSR needs to go forward to the MSBA. Ms. Tedford suggested that the Building Committee meet before the
      scheduled School Committee meeting due to a lengthy agenda.

         Mr. Harris presented a power point that would be shown at Town Meeting and asked for suggestions on which slides
         could be eliminated to keep the presentation within the time frame allowed. Discussion followed.

         Superintendent Perry also noted that Mr. McGinn asked her to have someone speak at Town Meeting about the
         Special Education Reserve. She suggested Ms. Maniaci and the Committee agreed.

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
        1. Last day of school – Superintendent Perry asked the Committee to approve June 22, 2018 as the last day for
           students and asked that it be a half day of school.

             Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve June 22, 2018 as the last day of school for students and that it be a half
             day. The motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 4-0, in favor.

             Ms. Perry noted that the teachers’ last day will be a full day on Monday, June 25th.

    B. Correspondence

    C. Adjournment
       Ms. Lipsitz moved to adjourn the meeting and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 4-0. The public
       session of the meeting ended at 9:46pm.

                                                                               Respectfully submitted,

                                                                               Marblehead School Committee



                                                               4
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                              5/3/2018

Meeting Documents:
Clerks/Secretarial Compensation for FY19 document
Weight room Presentation
Approval of Facility and Maintenance Contracts
Marblehead Public Schools Professional Staff Job Descriptions
Spanish Exchange Program
School Improvement Plans (Bell, Glover, Coffin/Gerry)
Schedule of Bills 5 3 2018
YTD Budget Executive Summary
List of Upcoming FY19 Procurements (if any)
FY19 Budget Appropriation
Last day of school – June 22nd for students (1/2 day); June 25th for staff




Approved 5/17/18




                                                                             5
