                                                     Marblehead School Committee
                                                             May 3, 2018
                                                               6:30PM
                                                       Marblehead High School
                                                              AGENDA
6:30PM
 Open Session
I. Initial Business and Public Involvement
    1. Call to Order
    2. Motion and vote to meet in executive session pursuant to purpose (3) of Massachusetts General Laws
        chapter 30A section 21(a) , purpose (3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the
        Marblehead Custodian Association, Cafeteria, Tutors, Paraprofessionals and Permanent Sub because an
        open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the school committee with the
        intention of returning to open session.

Executive Session Pursuant to M.G.L. chapter 30A section 21(a), Purpose (3)
Executive session meeting to discuss strategy regarding collective bargaining with the Marblehead Custodian
Association, Cafeteria, Tutors, Paraprofessionals and Permanent Sub.

Return to Open Session
Open Session

I.   Initial Business and Public Involvement
     3. Public Comment
     4. Student Representative

II. Consent Agenda& Action Items
    1. Clerks/Secretarial Compensation for FY19                                                                                           (vote)
    2. Weight room Presentation                                                                                                           (vote)
    3. Approval of Facility and Maintenance Contracts                                                                                     (vote)
           Combustion Service - Boiler Maintenance & Repairs; Secure Lock & Alarm - Door & Lock Repairs
           City Elevator - Elevator Maintenance; Ron Seaboyer - Fire Alarm Maintenance & Inspections
           Ambient Temperature - HVAC Mechanical Repairs; Automated Building Systems - HVAC Control Repairs
           Boston Mechanical - On Call Plumber; Greenwood Roofing - Roofing Repairs; HS Hot Water Tank Replacements
           New School Bus; Veterans School Walk in Fridge Repair
     4. Consideration of and vote to approve successor collective bargaining agreements with the                                          (vote)
        Marblehead Custodian Association, Cafeteria, Tutors, Paraprofessionals and Permanent Subs.

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        1. Marblehead Public Schools Professional Staff Job Descriptions
        2. Spanish Exchange Program
        3. High School Presentation
        4. School Improvement Plans (Bell, Glover, Coffin/Gerry)

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills                                                                                                      (vote)
    2. YTD Budget Executive Summary
    3. List of Upcoming FY19 Procurements (if any)
    4. FY19 Budget Appropriation                                                                                              (vote)

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. Gerry Building Committee Update – Town Meeting

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
        1. Last day of school – June 22nd for students (1/2 day); June 25th for staff                                         (vote)
    B. Correspondence
    C. Adjournment

                                                   Marblehead School Committee Vision Statement
A model school district, exemplary in its student engagement and academic excellence, where all students meet their highest potential with the support
of outstanding instructional leadership and in partnership with the community.
                                                                                                                          File: BEDH

                     PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AT SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETINGS
         All regular and special meetings of the School Committee shall be open to the public. Executive sessions will be held only as
prescribed by the Statutes of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

         The School Committee desires citizens of the District to attend its meetings so that they may become better acquainted with
the operations and the programs of our local public schools. In addition, the Committee would like the opportunity to hear the wishes
and ideas of the public.

        In order that all citizens who wish to be heard before the Committee have a chance and to ensure the ability of the Committee
to conduct the District's business in an orderly manner, the following rules and procedures are adopted:

    1.   At the start of each regularly scheduled School Committee meeting, individuals or group representatives will be invited to
         address the Committee. The Chairperson shall determine the length of the public participation segment.

    2.   Speakers will be allowed three (3) minutes to present their material. The presiding Chairperson (or a majority vote of the
         committee) may permit extension of this time limit.

    3.   Individuals may address topics, within the scope of responsibility of the School Committee.

    4.   Improper conduct and remarks will not be allowed. Defamatory or abusive remarks are always out of order. If a speaker
         persists in improper conduct or remarks, the Chairperson may terminate that individual’s privilege of address.

    5.   All remarks will be addressed through the Chairperson of the meeting.

    6.   Speakers may offer such objective criticisms of the school operations and programs as concern them, but in public session the
         Committee will not hear personal complaints of school personnel nor against any member of the school community. Under
         most circumstances, administrative channels are the proper means for disposition of legitimate complaints involving staff
         members.

    7.   Written comments longer than three (3) minutes may be presented to the Committee before or after the meeting for the
         Committee members’ review and consideration at an appropriate time.

    8.   Public Comment is not a discussion, debate, or dialogue between citizens and the Committee. It is a citizen’s opportunity to
         express his/her opinion on issues of School Committee business. The Committee and/or administrator’s may not be prepared
         to directly respond to citizen questions posed in this forum but the Chair may request that citizens put the question in writing
         to the appropriate person or body so that the matter is given the proper consideration.




         *SC members using computers during school committee meetings will neither send nor
         receive text messages or emails during meetings, except for fact finding or emergency
         situations that are preapproved by the Board.
