                                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                               Thursday, July 06, 2017
                                               Veterans Middle School

Members Present:                           Meredith Tedford, Kate Lipsitz, Jennifer Schaeffner
                                           Susie Pratt, David Harris

Also:                                      Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                           Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations


Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 8:05 am.

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
    1. Approval of Executive Session minutes 2/16/17
       Ms. Pratt made motion to approve the executive session minutes of 2/16/17. The motion was seconded by
       Schaeffner and the Committee VOTED unanimously 5-0, in favor.

     2. Minutes: 6/1/17; 6/15/17
        Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the minutes of 6/1/17 and 6/15/17. The motion was seconded by Ms.
        Lipsitz and the Committee VOTED unanimously 5-0, in favor.

     3. HVAC Control Contract
        Contract for the procurement of the following HVAC Control work to Automated Building Systems not to exceed
        $29,701.00. (put in other language)

        Ms. Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the executive session minutes of 2/16/17. The motion was seconded by
        Mr. Harris and the Committee VOTED unanimously 5-0, in favor.

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        1. Gmail Training
           Since the District has moved from FirstClass email to Gmail, Mr. Lord provided the Committee with a Gmail
           training.

        2. Summer Update
           Superintendent Perry noted that the end of year close for the schools went well. They are currently still in the
           hiring process but most high need positions have been filled. She is closely monitoring the kindergarten
           enrollment and though we have some larger first grade classes, they all fall within the classroom guidelines.

           There will be a meeting on July 11th with the MSBA for the designer selection panel. After that meeting the
           contract will come to the Committee for a vote.

At this time, Mike Gilbert of MASC presented a review on Roberts Rules of Order
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                   07/6/2017

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Policy Manual Overview
       Ms. Tedford noted that she and Ms. Schaeffner have spent the year working with MASC on the policy manual.
       There are some changes such as policies removed, legal references updated, and examples and forms removed. Ms.
       Tedford asked the Committee to reconsider having MASC host the policy manual again. If MASC hosts, they keep
       legal changes updated and then only policy changes would need to be voted on by the Committee. The cost for
       hosting is is $3500.00 for the first year and then $950.00 per year.


    2. New Member Checklist
       Ms. Tedford made note that the Chair or Secretary will provide any new member with all members contact
       information and encourage an introduction with each. Email accounts will be set up, MASC will review Robert’s
       Rules and the Chair will update any new member with current executive session information that would be relevant.

    3. Liaison Positions
       The Committee agreed on sub-committee, liaison and advisory representatives.

    4. Reports Calendar Additions
       Ms. Tedford noted that over the course of the past year, she’s kept a list of reports that Committee members
       mentioned they’d like to receive. She asked if there were any additions to the list presented.
       • Ms. Schaeffner noted that she would like an explanation of the requirements for the National Honor Societies
           at MHS.
       • It was suggested to have an overview of the Athletic Department but Superintendent Perry stated that this
           report would come at the end of the year to give the new Athletic Director time to become familiar with the
           department.
       • It was also suggested that the new fundraising procedures be sent out to all parents and staff so they are
           familiar with the changes.
       Discussion followed on some meetings being untelevised and Ms. Tedford noted that they could continue to have
       the workshops on evenings that are not typically set aside for regular meetings, such as the goals and budget
       workshops.

    5. Public Forum planning
       The Committee discussed the parameters for a forum regarding the Gerry School playground parking hours. It was
       determined that the Superintendent would begin by preparing a presentation with accurate facts and misconceptions
       as well as her recommendation then it would be open to the public. At this meeting the Committee will not take
       any formal vote. The Public Forum will be set for September 6, 2017.

    6. MASC conference
       Ms. Tedford informed the Committee that the only day she can attend the fall joint conference is Wednesday and
       asked the members if anyone was interested in attending the conference Thursday and Friday.

        She also reminded the Committee that MASC has added a Summer Institute on July 28th and 29th. Topics include:
         • New updates on ESSA
         • School budgets (including the impact on your budget of key federal changes)
         • Goal setting and monitoring
         • Issues surrounding opioids and marijuana legalization
         • Equity in education (and its role in student achievement)
         • The role of the chair

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
        1. Future MASC workshops
            Will discuss at a later time.



                                                           2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                              07/6/2017


     B. Correspondence
        None

     C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn was made and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0. The public session of the meeting
        ended at 1:00 pm.

                                                                      Respectfully submitted,
                                                                      Susie Pratt, Secretary
                                                                      Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
SC Minutes 6/1/17; 6/15/17
ABS HVAC Contract
MASC conference info
New Member Checklist
Sub Committees and Liaison sheet
SC yearly additions



Approved SC mtg 9 13 2017




                                                        3
