                                        Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                                    Thursday, September 6, 2017
                                                  Marblehead High School Library

Members Present:                           Meredith Tedford, Kate Lipsitz, Jennifer Schaeffner
                                           Susie Pratt, David Harris

Also:                                      Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                           Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                           Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                           Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations
                                           Rachel Bowen, Director of Human Resources

Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business
     A. Call to Order
          Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 7:00pm. She informed the public that the Committee will not be making any
          decisions during this forum. She also noted that the next School Committee meeting will be held on Wednesday, September
          13th where this item will appear on the agenda.

         Ms. Tedford stated that this evening’s forum is to discuss the proposal regarding the parking lot signage at the Gerry School
         which currently states that it is reserved for school use from 6:00am to 4:30pm. Mr. Magee’s proposal would change the
         signage to read until the street lights come on. Ms. Tedford also stated that the Police and Fifire chiefs, the Superintendent, the
         Facilities Director, and the Principal have all had input on this issue and agree with the Superintendent’s decision to not change
         the signage. Ms. Tedford then opened the forum to the public and asked the first person on the list of speakers to come up.

         Bill Smalley, 22 Prospect Street spoke on behalf of the Unitarian Universalist Church of Marblehead, which has used the
         parking lot for Sunday services, funerals, weddings and other special services for years. He noted that they have a parking
         attendant for events and would like to have the same arrangement continue with the schools.

         Jody Magee, 13 Guernsey Street. He has no problems with members of community using the playground. His goal is to set
         hours from 6am until the street lights go on. He asked to have a statement in the Church bulletin that would state that as good
         neighbors, the school department allows us to park in their playground and could you worshipers please not get there before the
         hours of worship. He is asking for the parking situation to be amended so the young children in the area could have more time
         on the playground and said the sign would be a deterrent to having people park in lot.

         Superintendent Perry made the public statement that she does not support the statement that Mr. Magee is asking of the
         Unitarian Universalist Church.

         Mr. Harris asked Mr. Magee to restate what he was proposing. Mr. Magee said that his request is to change the signage to read
         from 6am until the street lights come on.

         The following citizens came forward to speak:
         Blair Nelson, 100 Elm Street; Paul Baker, 42 Elm Street; Greg Williams, 39 Mugford Street; Paul Donovan, 27 Pearl Street;
         Bob Paquette, 53 Elm Street; Jim Zisson, 2 Mountain Road; Margaret Clark, Mugford St.; Steve Connolly, 48 Bowditch Street;
         Doug Park, 46 Pond Street; Tinabeth Burton, 19 High Street (but previously of Elm St).

         Ms. Tedford thanked everyone for their input and reminded the audience that the Committee would make its final decision
         during its regular scheduled meeting on Wednesday, September 13 at 7 p.m. which will be held in the Marblehead High School
         library.

     C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn was made and the meeting adjourned at 8:15pm. All were in favor.

                                                                             Respectfully submitted,
                                                                             Susie Pratt
                                                                             Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
None

Approved on 10/19/2017
