                                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                           Wednesday, September 13, 2017
                                           Marblehead High School Library

Members Present:                          Meredith Tedford, Kate Lipsitz, Jennifer Schaeffner
                                          Susie Pratt, David Harris

Also:                                     Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                          Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                          Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                          Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations
                                          Rachel Bowen, Director of Human Resources

Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business
     A. Call to Order
          Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 7:00pm.

     B. Commendations
        Ms. Tedford thanked the administrators, custodians, and principals and welcomed the students to a new year.

          Ms. Pratt commended Ms. Tedford for her work as the chair.

          Ms. Lipsitz commended two Marblehead students, senior Derek Marino and junior Billy Ackerman for receiving
          the MIAA Educational Athletics Achievement Award.

     C. Public Comment
        Mr. Jody Magee, asked each SC member to explain why they made their decision when voting on the change in
        signage at the Gerry School.

     D. Student Representative
        Melissa Khorda noted the following dates/events:
            • Thurs September 14th is the Open House at the High School
            • Picture day is Thursday and the Activity Fair will be held during Advisory in the field house.
            • National Math Honor Society is assisting with tutoring at the High School
            • National Honor Society is also providing tutoring
            • Practice SATs will be held on Saturday, October 14
            • Financial Aid night will be held on Tuesday
            • Senior parents have a guidance meeting on October 5th
            • College visits have begun
            • The Drama Fest will begin Monday September 13
            • Marblehead High School won the Dolphin Award for a second year in a row

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
    1. SC minutes: 5/18/2017; 8/14/2017;7/6/17
       Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the minutes of 5/18/2017; 8/14/2017;7/6/17 and the motion was seconded
       by Ms. Lipsitz. The Committee VOTED 5-0 in favor.

     2.   Acceptance of METCO Donations
          The School Committee voted to create a Metco Program donation fund at a prior meeting. The Rotary Club of
          Marblehead Harbor donated $500.00 to this fund. Mr. Harris made motion to accept the donation of $500.00 from
          the Rotary Club of Marblehead Harbor. The motion as seconded by Ms. Pratt and the Committee VOTED 5-0 in
          favor.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                           9/13/2017

    3.   Gerry Playground parking
         Ms. Perry stated that over the past months she has spoken to police, fire, parents, students and community
         members and at a meeting in September the public had an opportunity to give their opinions regarding the signage
         at the Gerry School. In the meantime Mr. Lord and her recommendation is that the hours on the playground
         remain as is.

         Ms. Tedford asked if anyone was in favor of making a motion to approve a change in signage on the Gerry
         playground parking area. Ms. Schaeffner made motion to amend the signage and the motion was seconded by Mr.
         Harris. Discussion on the issue followed.

         Ms. Schaeffner noted that it was evident that no one has ever complained over the past. However it seems like the
         public who appeared wanted to change the parking hours for 7 days a week.

         Ms. Pratt also had the misconception that the request was to change signage during the week days and considering
         the neighborhood a change in signage could present a problem on snow days. She does feel that the request is a
         more significant change than she initially realized.

         Mr. Harris stated that 13 people spoke in the public forum and all were in agreement to change parking hours and
         he understands their desire to have their children play there. He noted that it has been past practice that cars are
         allowed there and is hoping to reach a compromise that would allow some use for parking while allowing others to
         use the area for play. He noted that there would be challenges with enforcement might be an issue however in
         general, signage in Marblehead seems to be self enforced and if the signage was changed it wouldn’t be a real
         burden to anyone in particular.

         Ms. Lipsitz stated that there were 9 in favor including a letter and 4 against, as well as the opinion of both chiefs,
         the Superintendent and the Town Administrator, who agree that there is no need for a change at this time. She is
         leaning toward no change to the signage.

         Ms. Tedford is going to vote no change to the parking as this is a unique situation and given that it has existed for
         so long and no issues have surfaced of any car owners being irresponsible. In the next few years, the Gerry
         decision on feasibility will take place and all could change. It would also be difficult to enforce on days school is
         not in session. Our responsibility and focus is to make sure the students are safe during the school day. Ms.
         Tedford noted that she was thankful that the public voiced their opinions.

         Mr. Harris noted that people do observe the signage. He also noted that we received a legal document which noted
         that the district is responsible for faulty equipment on the playground regardless of the time of day.

         Ms. Schaeffner stated that she feels the request is a dramatic change for this neighborhood.

         Ms. Perry stated that when you begin putting up a no parking sign at Gerry School, it will set a precedence for all
         the other schools.

         Ms. Tedford noted that the motion at hand is to amend the Gerry parking signage.

         Ms. Tedford asked for a call on the vote. The Committee VOTED 1 in favor of changing the parking signage at
         Gerry and 4 opposed (1for-4 against). The motion failed.


III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
         1. Introduction of district-wide administrators




                                                               2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                    9/13/2017

         Superintendent Perry introduced four new key members to administration: Christine Lyons who is a
         Curriculum Coach; METCO Director Jessica Castro; School Resource Officer Daniel Gagnon; and Athletic
         Director Greg Ceglarski.

         Superintendent Perry thanked the Police Department and Town Administrator in helping MPS secure a
         Resource Officer.

         Superintendent Perry asked the public to contact Jessica Castro if they are interested in being a host family for
         some of our METCO students.

    2.   Opening Day
         Superintendent Perry gave a brief overview of the opening day for staff and students. This year she didn’t
         begin opening day with a welcoming speech but rather had the teachers go directly to their schools for
         professional development, trainings and classroom setup however she will speak to them later in the year.

         She thanked Mr. Lord, Mr. Matthews, and their staff for working so diligently to get the schools ready for the
         start of school in August. It’s been a smooth opening and unexpected leave of absences were quickly handled
         by Mr. Bauer and Ms. Bowen. Roundtables with principals have begun and will continue every Tuesday
         through June. Staff meetings and Professional Development for staff has already begun and hiring continues
         to fill in the few open slots.

         Ms. Schaeffner thanked the Superintendent and other administrators for working to fill in those last minute
         vacancies.

    3.   Superintendent's Goals
         Ms. Tedford explained that instead of having the Superintendent present her benchmarks three times as in past
         years, they will require one at mid year and another and the end of the year.

         The Superintendent’s Goals as presented:
         Student Learning
             • Allergy Awareness: By April 2018, implement district wide programming
                 addressing allergy awareness at grade-appropriate levels incorporating building level
                 initiatives to increase awareness and reduce instances of allergen based reactions,
                 parent and community outreach and education.

             •    Service Learning: By April 2018, unify, vertically align, and expand upon the
                  existing district service learning exercises, encouraging students to understand,
                  identify and pursue opportunities to contribute as citizens, in helping others and the
                  community.

             •    Science Curriculum Alignment: By April 2018, develop pilot K-8 science units
                  incorporating the Understanding by Design curriculum model, with
                  recommendations for science kits and textbook adoption.

         District Improvement

             •    High School 1:1 student technology devices: By April 2018, complete exploration
                  and study, and finalize a formal recommendation for the implementation of High
                  School level 1:1 student device rollout, representative of input from student, faculty,
                  administrative, family and community representation.

             •    Gerry School Building Committee: By April 2018, through participation in the
                  Gerry Building Committee, work with the Owner’s Project Manager, designer, and
                  consultants to continue the Bell, Coffin, Gerry Feasibility Study, inclusive of:
                      o Educational Program
                      o Initial Space Summary


                                                          3
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                          9/13/2017

                          o    Preliminary Design Program Options
                          o    Preferred Option selection
                          o    Community engagement, outreach and communication of the project

                 •    Online Tuition and Fee Payment: By April 2018, formalize and communicate
                      online tuition and fee payment to students and families across all tuition and fee-
                      based programming, and define and communicate district guidelines regarding
                      associated student fundraising.

                 •    Human Resource Efficiency: By April of 2018 develop job descriptions for all
                      positions within the Marblehead Public Schools.

            Professional Practice

                 •    District Wide Social Climate and Culture: By April 2018, revise grade 7-12
                      wellness/health curriculum, incorporating opioid awareness and prevention through
                      the Youth Opioid Prevention grant, wellness, community partnerships, including the
                      implementation of the High School Resource Officer in partnership with Marblehead
                      Police Department.

                 •    Communication: By April 2018, continue to enhance communication and outreach
                      with partners and stakeholders through listening tours, district and building-level
                      climate and culture initiatives, administrative team-building and outreach to families.

            Ms. Lipsitz made motion to approve the Superintendent’s Goals for 2017-2018. The motion was seconded by
            Ms. Schaeffner and the Committee VOTED 5-0 in favor.

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills
        #15456 $ 5,960.00
        #15484 $ 1,360.00
        #15491 $     220.32
        #15492 $155,462.23
        #15493 $136,640.05
        #15496 $ 10,287.28
        #15508 $ 67,003.07
        #15509 $191,350.64
        #15519 $ 1,316.13
        Total $569,599.72

        Ms. Lipsitz recused herself from this vote as it could be perceived as a conflict of interest. Ms. Lipsitz left the
        room.

        Motion to approve all schedules of bills totaling $569,599.72 was made by Ms. Pratt and seconded by Ms.
        Schaeffner. The Committee VOTED 4-0 in favor.

        Ms. Lipsitz returned to the table.

    Mr. Harris asked why it is mandated that all new employees have a physical. Ms. Maniaci noted that she would look
    into it.

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. School Committee Report Calendar-DRAFT
       • Ms. Tedford noted that the updated SC Agenda Report Calendar for the year will be online with the
           September 8th documents.



                                                              4
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                       9/13/2017

          •    A workshop on collective bargaining will take place later in the year.

          •    There will not be a meeting on November 2nd as the Superintendent and Chair will be at the joint
               MASC/MASS conference in Hyannis.

          Mr. Harris suggested that the committee consider adding another meeting before voting the budget on
          March 22nd.

    2. Gerry Feasibility Study - DRAFT Schedule
       Mr. Harris stated:
       On September 6th the Superintendent hosted RDA Raymond Design Assoc. and Leftfield, the Owners Project
       Managers. Ms. Perry noted that Module 3 brings groups of identified individuals together for a two day workshop
       to discuss Vision and Mission, what we want this building to have and what the link is between Coffin, Gerry and
       Bell.

        It began with an introduction last week with RDA and Leftfield attending a Coffin/Gerry staff meeting where they
        explained what was currently going on and how things will get done. This was the beginning of some good
        conversations between everyone on what is important to us and what we hope to accomplish. The group was asked
        to put together a Visioning Committee with representation of teachers from every grade level, representation from
        every specialist, special education staff, inclusion teachers, guidance and members of the Village School for
        discussion on transition from elementary to Village. Also included was representation from SEPAC, School
        Committee representative, community members, as well as a parent from the Glover School, and a host of
        administrators.

        Mr. Harris noted that last Thursday was the kick off meeting with the MSBA and we will continue to work on an
        ongoing analysis of existing facility plans as well as begin site options.

        Mr. Harris noted that tomorrow’s Gerry Bldg. Committee meeting has been canceled as there is nothing to vote or
        delegate. The next meeting will be two weeks from Thursday. He noted that the Listening Tour is posted as a joint
        meeting on Monday, September 18th.

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
        Ms. Tedford reminded the public that as we kick off a new school year, our meetings and school website are the
        best places for information regarding the district.

     B. Correspondence
        Ms. Tedford noted that she will send a thank you note for the METCO donation.

     C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn was made and the meeting adjourned at 8:45pm. All were in favor.

                                                                              Respectfully submitted,
                                                                              Susie Pratt
                                                                              Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
SC minutes: 5/18/2017; 8/14/2017;7/6/17
METCO Donations
Superintendent's Goals
Schedule of Bills
School Committee Report Calendar-DRAFT
Gerry Feasibility Study - DRAFT Schedule



Approved 12/7/2017




                                                               5
