                                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                                   October 19, 2017
                                               Glover School Cafetorium

Members Present:                          Meredith Tedford, Kate Lipsitz, Susie Pratt,
                                          David Harris, Jennifer Schaeffner

Also:                                     Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                          Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                          Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                          Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations
                                          Robert Bellucci, Dir. Of Student Services & Prog. Acct.
                                          Rachel Bowen, Director of Human Resources

Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 7:00pm.

     B. Commendations
        Superintendent Perry congratulated all those who were inducted into the National Honor Society last night.

         Ms. Tedford thanked Mr. James Maroney of MHTV for taping the meeting.

     C. Public Comment
        None

     D. Student Representative
        Melissa Khorda made note of the following announcements:
        • Now through October 29th the Language teachers and students are holding a fundraiser for the people in
            Puerto Rico. For more information, please contact the Spanish teacher.
        • Auditions for 2018 Marblehead Rotary Club “Marblehead’s Got Talent” competition has kicked off.
            Auditions for Freshman and Sophomores will be held on Saturday, October 21st from 10-12 and auditions for
            Juniors and Seniors on Saturday, November 4 from 9-11.

         Ms. Tedford thanked the Glover School Principal and welcomed the students and their families.

         Ms. Graziano and some of her students shared some of their projects on Service Learning. The money they raised
         was to help those in Puerto Rico.

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
    1. Minutes: 9/6/2017; 10/5/2017
       Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the minutes of 9/6/17 and 10/5/17. The motion was seconded by Ms.
       Lipsitz and the Committee VOTED unanimously 5-0, in favor.

         Ms. Tedford reminded the community that all documents discussed at school committee meetings are posted
         online on the Marblehead Public Schools School Committee web page.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                                 10/19/2017

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        1. Food Service Report
           The purpose of this report is to provide the School Committee with a comprehensive evaluation of its current
           Food Services operations and its mission to serve healthy, well-balanced meals that students and staff will enjoy
           eating, in compliance with local, School Committee, State and Federal school lunch policies and regulations.
           Additionally the food services department and its staff continue to be an ongoing part of district goals including
           allergy awareness, positive behavior, and nutritional and social wellness, through outreach and collaboration with
           both building and central school faculty. We believe that the Marblehead Food Services department is an
           important piece of the overall educational experience of the student body and we seek to add a positive and
           valuable wellness experience to what is often a social and welcome part of the school day. In working with
           district values of educating the ‘whole child’ we align our mission by working to promote lifelong healthy eating
           habits and provide nutritious and enjoyable food in a safe and positive environment.

          Mr. Kelleher noted that they continue to improve the collection of accounts in arrears as well as identifying those
          who are eligible for free or reduced lunches. Another notable improvement is providing fresh, cooked daily on
          site meals at the Glover School for both students and teachers.

         Mr. Kelleher, the Food Service Director, noted the following 2017 successes and challenges: (this entire report
         which includes challenges and financials is available online at http://marbleheadschools.org/sc-meetings

         FY17 Successes
         • Ongoing successes with School Committee and Administrative procedure on arrears collections
         • Participated in DESE Food Services audit with successful findings report of compliance and practice
         • Conducted ServSafe training to maintain certification of required kitchen staff
         • Kitchen staff participated in additional client services and staff management training over and above mandated kitchen safety
         training
         • Purchasing best practices including longer reach of local farm connections and co-operative purchasing when available and in
         accordance with regulations
         • Participated in DOD (United States Department of Defense) fresh produce buying program. Savings of approximately $4,400
         in food costs
         • Completed purchasing of all milk coolers to own in lieu of former practice of leasing. This has provided cost savings and
         efficiencies in our milk purchases and storage. These units were fully amortized prior to their first complete year of service in
         district
         • Successful round of annual Board of Health inspections across all building kitchens

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills
        #15626 $     595.00
        #15640 $     417.78
        #15667 $246,010.17
        #15668 $ 7,098.50
        #15669 $ 8,836.21
        #15670 $ 22,046.02
        #15671 $ 24,074.48
        Total $309,078.16

         Motion to approve all schedules of bills totaling $309,078.16 was made by Ms. Pratt and seconded by Ms.
         Schaeffner. The Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

    2.   End of Fiscal Year 17 Report
         Ms. Maniaci presented the End of Fiscal Year 17 Report and noted that at the final fiscal close, week 52 of a 52
         week fiscal year, the operating budget was balanced. She made note to a transfer report which shows closeout
         period transfers of expense overages out of the operating budget into grants and special funds to balance expenses
         to original appropriations. The report can be read in full, online on our web site at:
         http://marbleheadschools.org/sc-meetings



                                                                   2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                    10/19/2017



V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. Gerry Building Update
      Mr. Harris noted that the second Listening Tour was held yesterday, October 18th at the Glover School. The themes
      that surfaced were: traffic; what could happen with the current schools should we decide not to use them; how
      changes at the Tower School could affect our project; and communication to the public in getting out information
      through many venues.
      Mr. Harris noted that they are currently working on a web site for the project. He also noted that the Listening
      Tours will transition into giving out information as well as receiving questions, comments or concerns. Mr. Harris
      noted that the next Building Committee meeting will be held on Thursday, October 26th at the Glover School and
      there will be a presentation by Gene Raymond, our Design Architect, on the initial space summary. The next
      Listening Tour will be scheduled for mid November.

     2. MASC Conference
        Ms. Tedford stated that she attended the conference last year and attended different seminars than those the
        Superintendent attended in order to broaden the coverage of topics. She will attend again this year on Wednesday
        and Thursday of the conference but will not be able to attend the Friday and Saturday sessions. She asked if any
        other member would like to attend the Friday and Saturday sessions in her place, to please let her know. Ms.
        Tedford also noted that she would like to attend the Delegate Assembly on November 1st and this would require the
        Committee’s vote. One of the benefits of being a delegate is that our Committee could propose resolutions and by-
        law changes. At the current time there are seven resolutions to be discussed.

         Mr. Harris made motion to appoint Ms. Tedford as delegate to MASC Delegate Assembly representing the
         Marblehead School Committee. The motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and the Committee VOTED, 5-0, in
         favor.

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
        Ms. Tedford noted that the Policy Manual is close to being ready for presentation to the Committee at the
        November 16th meeting and hopefully voted on at a December meeting.

     B. Correspondence
        Ms. Tedford stated that she will send a thank you note to the Glover School.

     C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn the meeting was made and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, to adjourn. The public
        session of the meeting ended at 8:20pm.

                                                                           Respectfully submitted,
                                                                           Susie Pratt
                                                                           Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
Minutes: 9/6/2017; 10/5/2017
Food Service Report
Schedule of Bills
End of Fiscal Year 17 Report
Gerry Building Update
MASC Conference




Apprved 12/7/2017




                                                            3
