                                   Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                                   December 21, 2017
                                                 Marblehead High School

Members Present:                              Meredith Tedford, Kate Lipsitz,
                                              David Harris, Jennifer Schaeffner

Also:                                         Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                              Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                              Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations

Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 7:00pm.

     B. Commendations
        Ms. Perry thanked all performing arts students and staff for their performances over the past few weeks.

     C. Public Comment
         Louis Meyi, 16 Sheldon Road. Mr. Meyi presented the following statement:
         We represent the work group of the Marblehead Racial Justice Team tasked with engagement with the Marblehead Public
         Schools. We present this statement today to ensure that the Superintendent and the School Committee know about an event
         proposed for Marblehead High School on Friday, January 19. 2018. You are aware, we hope, that earlier in the current school
         year, students work the steps to form a support group, Diversity Minority Club, at MHS, with administration approval and a
         faculty advisor. The aim is to aid the experience of students of color at MHS. When MRJT had dialogue with two MRJT
         student members who are part of the Diversity Minority Club about what steps needed to occur toward improvement of the
         climate for African American students at MHS, one feature of their immediate response was, “Make arrangements for Chris
         Crass to be featured at a MHS assembly.” Who is Chris Crass? He is a nationally prominent racial justice educator based in
         Kentucky who has extensive experience in connecting with predominantly white audiences about systemic racism. MRJT
         contracted with Mr. Crass some time ago for a large-scale public event here on Sunday, January 21. When JRJT heard the plea
         from our MHS students, MRJT asked Mr. Crass if he could arrive before the weekend so that we might propose his appearance
         t MHS. The students in the Diversity Minority Club have had conversation with Principal Dan Bauer about this, we
         understand. MRJT has been in contact with Superintendent Perry and the Superintendent’s Administrative Assistant to request
         a meeting, at which this topic would be one part of the larger agenda. We planned to submit a full agenda as requested by
         Superintendent Perry once the meeting was set. Per a call earlier this week from the Superintendent’s Administrative Assistant,
         the meeting cannot be fit in before the break. We sense that the time considerations about the proposed January 19 event make
         it important to inform you about this proposal before the break, and that is our purpose here tonight. Also, we affirm our
         pending request for a meeting with Superintendent Perry as soon as schedules can accommodate. Thank you.

     D. Student Representative
        Not present

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
    1. Approval of Salary Ranges for Principals, Asst. Principals,
       Dir. Of Facilities/Technology, Finance Dir/Bus. Manager, HR Director
       Superintendent Perry stated that per School Committee policy, each year, the School Committee approves a salary
       range for administrators. We took comparable communities’ district salaries and we’ve come up with a range for
       the Marblehead Public School salaries for the 2018-2019 school year. Ms. Perry further explained that the position
       for Executive Director of Technology and Operations is a hybrid position as other districts have two separate
       positions for these functions. She further explained that Mr. Lord is highly qualified for both positions so they took
       the low range and the high range and formulated a salary range for our position of Executive Director of
       Technology and Operations.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                         12/21/2017

       Ms. Lipsitz made motion to approve the range of administrator salaries. The motion was seconded by Ms.
       Schaeffner and discussion followed. The Committee VOTED unanimously, 4-0, in favor.

    2. Acceptance of Donation-National Grand Bank to Fine Arts
       Cash donation in the amount of &750 from the National Grand Bank

       Ms. Lipsitz made motion to accept the donation of $750.00 from the National Grand Bank to the district wide Fine
       Arts Program. The motion was seconded by Ms. Schaeffner and the Committee VOTED unanimously 4-0, in
       favor.

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        1. Class Size Reports:
           High School – Mr. Bauer presented the class size report for the High School.

           Veterans School – Mr. Fox presented the class size report for the Veterans School.

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills

      Ms. Lipsitz recused herself.

       #15796    $    465.00
       #15881    $    862.23
       #15894    $ 12,753.00
       #15897    $ 15,600.56
       #15902    $    510.00
       #15923    $ 41,215.50
       #15927    $426,968.66
       #15928    $ 24,313.62
       #15935    $ 6,922.71
                 $529,611.28

        Motion to approve the Schedules of Bills of 12/21/2017 totaling $529,611.28 was made by Ms. Schaeffner and
        seconded by Mr. Harris. The Committee VOTED 3-0 in favor.

        Ms. Lipsitz returned to the table.

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. Gerry Building Update
      a. Initial Space Summary
         Two reports were presented: one for 160 pupils and the other for 450 pupils.

          Mr. Harris gave a history of the detail and time that went into this report. He noted that this was not the final size
          of the school or classroom size, it’s a preliminary submittal and then the MSBA will return with their
          recommendation. Once we the test fits are narrowed down, the Committee will then make decisions and
          recommendations for square footage. He also noted that the non-sped square footage almost exactly matches
          with that of Glover (in 450) on a per pupil basis. He stated that once this process is done the next step will be to
          go for the schematic designs. There are two more votes between now and May. The recommended short list that
          will come in January and then the preferred option which should come in April or May. Mr. Harris noted that
          one hard date is June 27, 2018 because that’s a date when the MSBA Board meets on we need to submit our
          papers to them several weeks before then. If we miss that date, we need to wait another two months.

          It was noted that the January 18, 2018 Gerry BC meeting will be held at the High School.



                                                               2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                             12/21/2017

            Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the 450-Pupil Initial Space Summary, Option 2 (86,426), recommended
            by the Building Committee at their 12/14/17 meeting. The motion was seconded by Ms. Lipsitz and the
            Committee VOTED unanimously in favor, 4-0.

            Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the 160-Pupil Initial Space Summary (50,055) recommended by the
            Building Committee at their 10/26/17 meeting. The motion was seconded by Mr. Harris and the Committee
            VOTED unanimously in favor, 4-0.

     2. Policy Manual – spreadsheet
        Who? Presented a spreadsheet outlining each of the policies, noting if there were changes, a brief description of the
        change as well as those policies no longer needed. Some policies that are shaded, refer to those policies that need to
        be reviewed by either legal or by administration. Many of the shaded areas are HR related policies and will be
        reviewed with our new HR director. MASC recommends an overhaul of the policy manual every ten years which is
        what we have been doing.

     3. Superintendent’s Goals discussion
        Ms. Tedford asked her Committee if they would mind not having a formal review using the DESE rubrics. She
        noted that updates will still be given and each goal will be presented but the Committee’s role to evaluate will not
        include a final binder with references and evidence. Updates will continue with speakers coming to the Committee
        to keep them informed. Discussion followed and it was noted that perhaps Professional Practice and District
        Improvement could be represented at one Committee meeting and the focus on Student Learning could be presented
        at another meeting.

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
        Ms. Tedford noted that she spoke to Jackie Belf-Becker, Chair for the Board of Selectmen, about the School
        Committee vacancy. This is a unique situation because of the timing. The Selectmen and School Committee have
        not received anything from anyone interested in filling this position until May which presents a challenge time
        wise. Ms. Tedford noted that she also spoke to our MASC representative regarding this situation and they agreed
        that given the timing in that the two processes would be going on simultaneously, that of filling a seat until May
        and those pulling papers in February for those interested in running for a School Committee seat, the number of
        meetings this interim member would serve might be as little as three meetings. Ms. Tedford asked the Committee
        if they feel it is necessary to fill this seat for 5 meetings or less or can they agree to leave the seat open and fill it in
        May with a Town vote.

           The Committee agreed to leave the seat unfilled until the regular elections in May as it will only be for a few
           meetings.

     B. Correspondence
        None

     C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn the meeting was made and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 4-0, to adjourn. The public
        session of the meeting ended at 9:00pm.
                                                                     Respectfully submitted,
                                                                     Meredith Tedford
                                                                     Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
Administrator salary ranges
Donation
Class size Report High School
Class size Report Veterans School
Schedule of bills
Initial Space Summary for Bell, Coffin, Gerry Project
Policy Manual spreadsheet
Superintendent’s goals update

Approved by SC 1/11/2018


                                                                 3
