                                 Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                                    May 17, 2018
                                               Marblehead High School

Members Present:                          Meredith Tedford, David Harris, Jennifer Schaeffner
                                          Meagan Taylor, Sarah Gold

Also:                                     Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                          Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                          Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                          Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations
                                          Robert Bellucci, Director of Student Services & Program Accountability

Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Superintendent Perry called the meeting to order at 7:00pm.

     B. Committee Organization
         1. Election of Officers
             a. Chairman: Superintendent Perry asked for a nomination for the position of Chairman.
             Ms. Schaeffner nominated Ms. Tedford. The motion was seconded by Mr. Harris. There were no other
             nominations. The Committee VOTED with a show of hands, 5-0 in favor.

             b. Vice-Chairman:
             Mr. Harris nominated Ms. Schaeffner for Vice-Chair. The motion was seconded by Ms. Tedford.
             There were no other nominations. The Committee VOTED with a show of hands, 5-0 in favor.

             c. Secretary: Ms. Schaeffner nominated Ms. Gold for Secretary. The motion was seconded by Mr. Harris.
             There were no other nominations. The Committee VOTED with a show of hands, 5-0 in favor.

         2. Approvals
             a. School Committee Code of Ethics-Policy BCA.
             Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the School Committee Code of Ethics. The motion was seconded by
             Ms. Gold and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0 in favor.

             b. School Committee Operating Protocols and new Member Checklist were presented to the new
             members.

     B. Commendations
        Ms. Tedford thanked Mr. James Maroney of MHTV as well as the student assisting him this evening.

         Mr. Harris welcomed the two new School Committee members. He also recognized and applauded the other three
         candidates (Brenda Kim, Luisa Boverini and Sarah Fox) who also ran for a school committee seat.

         Ms. Tedford invited the Committee and the community to stop in at the library to visit our student Art Fair.

         Mr. Harris thanked Greg Ceglarski for giving up his weekend to accompany the girls sailing team to Rhode Island
         last weekend when their coach was unable to attend.

     C. Public Comment
        Cindy Loewen, 12 Trinity Road welcomed the two new school committee members.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                    5/17/2018




    D. Student Representative
       Melissa Kordha, Student Representative (not present)

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
      1. Field Trip-
         Superintendent Perry explained that on Friday, May 11th, members of the Committee held a brief meeting to
         approved the boys sailing regatta at Maine Maritime Academy for an overnight and out of state trip. Today, they
         come before you for approval of another trip for the sailing team to Mount Desert Island May 18-19th. The
         students will be accompanied by their coach and will stay in accommodations provided by their parents.

          Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the overnight and out of state trip to Mount Desert Island for the boys
          sailing team. The motion was seconded by Mr. Harris and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.

       2. Minutes: 4/12/2018; 5/3/2018
          Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the minutes of 4/12/2018; 5/3/2018. The motion was seconded by Ms.
          Gold and the Committee VOTED 5-0 in favor.

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        1. School Improvement Plans (Village, Veterans, High School)
           Village School SIP: Amanda Murphy, Principal
                  Core Value: Student Achievement, Resources
                  Strategic Goals: Curriculum, Instruction, Educator Growth
                  Goal 1: Curriculum and Instruction
                  School Improvement Goal: Strengthen our curriculum and instruction in each core academic area with
                  curriculum mapping and alignment.
                  Data Sources: Galileo; Go Math Assessments; AIMSweb; MCAS data; review of curriculum products;
                  teacher feedback.

                 Core Value: Student Achievement
                 Strategic Goal: Instruction, Educator Growth
                 Goal 2: Assessment/Progress Monitoring
                 Data Sources: Galileo Benchmarks; MCAS Scores; AIMSweb; GO Math Assessments; Calkins Reading
                 Benchmarks.

                 Core Value: School Culture
                 Strategic Goal: School Climate and Culture, Instruction, Personal Growth
                 Goal 3: School Climate and Culture
                 Data Sources: Teacher, student and parent feedback; SWIS.

                 Core Value: School Culture, Partnerships and Collaboration
                 Strategic Goal: School Climate and Culture, Educator Growth
                 Goal 4: School Safety
                 Data Sources: Fire drill and lockdown logs; Training attendance records.

          Veterans School SIP: Matt Fox, Principal
                Core Value: Student Achievement, Resources
                Strategic Goals: Curriculum, Instruction, Educator Growth
                Goal 1: Curriculum and Instruction
                School Improvement Goals




                                                           2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                              5/17/2018

           Science: Create/Implement new curriculum maps based upon Massachusetts Science/Technology
           Engineering 2016 Frameworks
           Social Studies: Explore and create a roll-out process for the new Massachusetts History/Social Science
           2018 Frameworks (PENDING DESE APPROVAL ON JUNE 26, 2018)
           Data Sources: Science MCAS tests; Common Science Assessments; Review of curriculum work
           products.

           Core Value: Student Achievement
           Strategic Goals: Instruction, Educator Growth
           Goal 2: Assessment
           School Improvement Goals: Use new data from MCAS 2.0 to help evaluate and inform instruction and
           provide individualized assistance.
           Use new state-wide accountability data to evaluate areas of improvement and set future goals.
           Data Sources: Mathematics MCAS 2.0 results; ELA MCAS 2.0 results; Science MCAS results; State
           determined accountability data.

           Core Value: School Culture, Partnerships and Collaboration
           Strategic Goals: School Climate and Culture
           Goal 3: Safety
           School Improvement Goal: Implement the ALICE program and protocols
           Data Sources: National studies of effectiveness of ALICE; anecdotal feedback from area districts
           implementing ALICE.

           Core Value: School Culture, Partnerships and Collaboration, Personal Growth
           Strategic Goals: School Climate and Culture, Instruction
           Goal 4: School Climate and Culture
           School Improvement Goals: Support the implementation of a district-wide initiative for Positive
           Behavior Intervention and Supports (PBIS).
           Explore options for Service Learning.
           Data Sources: Discipline referrals; attendance data; PBIS products; teacher feedback

     High School: Dan Bauer, Principal
           Core Value: Student Achievement, Resources
           Strategic Goal: Curriculum, Instruction and Educator Growth
           Goal 1: Curriculum and Instruction
           School Improvement Goal: Finalize completion of core subject and elective curriculum documents:
           includes all courses that support graduation requirements.
           Data Sources: Evaluation of the new curriculum documents and student achievement.

           Core Value: Student Achievement
           Strategic Goal: Instruction, Educator Growth
           Goal 2: Assessment
           School Improvement Goal: Revision and further development of common assessments in each MHS
           Department, including formative assessments.
           Data Sources: Item analysis of common assessments including mid-term and final exams; MCAS Data;
           common rubric analysis and formative assessment analysis.

           Core Value: School Culture, Partnerships and Collaboration, Personal Growth
           Strategic Goal: School Climate and Culture, Curriculum, Instruction
           Goal 3: School Climate and Safety
           School Improvement Goal: Continue to provide structures that focus on the promotion of a positive
           school culture. Develop and implement social-emotional learning and bullying prevention curricula for
           each grade level, integrating various programs, student expectations, resources and professional
           development.
           Data Sources: Survey Data; MHS Discipline; Attendance Data; Discipline Data.




                                                     3
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                       5/17/2018

                 Core Value: Student Achievement
                 Strategic Goal: Curriculum, Instruction, Educator Growth
                 Goal 4: Student Achievement
                 School Improvement Goal: Improve performance of at-risk students through creation of models that
                 reduce achievement gaps and meet improvement targets for selected student populations.
                 Data Sources: MCAS Data; SAT Data; Report Card Data

       2. Student User fees for 2018-2019
          Ms. Maniaci presented a comprehensive report for user fees.
          Recommendation Student User Fee School Year 2018-19
          Last fiscal year we exhausted our funding within the User Fee revolving account, as well as intended operating
          budget appropriation lines funding extracurricular related expenses, in their entirety and closed the expense gap,
          with out-of-appropriation operating budget funding and additional revolving fund revenue (Tuition Fund and
          Building Rental Fund). School Committee voted to address this gap and bring District User Fees for school year
          2017-2018 to a district-comparable and needs-based figure that was intended on not only balancing the athletic
          budget, but allowing for a uniform procurement initiative to bring athletes and the athletic department current in
          uniform renewal and long term purchase planning. As we closely analyze this year’s effect of the increase in
          user fee and expenses, including major uniform purchasing, with the understanding the School Committee,
          across all fee-based programming, has recommended annual discussion of smaller incremental cost of living
          increases to alleviate large ‘catch up’ adjustments, we recommend a 2% increase across the current user fee
          structure.

           Ms. Tedford remarked that we continue to be under the median rate with other communities.

IV. Finance Organizational Support
    1. Schedule of Bills
         #16430 $102,733.55
         #16447 $ 5,795.25
         #16449 $ 14,541.02
         #16451 $181,730.68
         #16474 $161,761.54
         #16475 $ 2,617.35
         #16478 $ 19,222.02
         #16479 $ 8,318.22
         #16482 $ 1,962.75
                 $498,682.38

      Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve the schedule of bills in the amount of $498,682.38. The motion was
      seconded by Mr. Harris and the Committee VOTED 5-0 in favor.

V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   1. Gerry Building Committee Update
     Mr. Harris thanked Ms. Maniaci and Ms. Schaeffner for working on the presentation for Town meeting as well as
     Mr. Lord and his tech team. Mr. Harris noted that the next phase is to design the school. The Building Committee
     will meet on Tuesday, May 22nd to discuss submittal of the PSR (preliminary schematic report) which is an update to
     our PDP that was submitted and will contain the preferred option rather than the six options and will refine the space
     study. The architect continues to refine his design. He noted that Ms. Maniaci is working on a pro-forma budget
     with Mr. Lord. Superintendent Perry noted that last week, the architect, teachers, and administrators worked together
     to voice their opinion on what they feel would be important to them in this building. Since the PSR on the
     Educational Profile that was submitted in February returned with comments from the MSBA and since we reduced
     the space study based on the MSBA and what would be allowable, she and Mr. Bellucci will redo the entire
     Educational Profile to make certain that we’ve made the changes recommended by the MSBA and the changes from
     the initial space summary. This will change the submittal date, Mr. Harris noted, to the end of May which would
     mean we will appear before the MSBA in August.




                                                             4
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                          5/17/2018

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
        Ms. Perry noted that we have been in communication with the Chief of Police regarding the playground at the
        Gerry School. The Board of Selectmen have agreed to make the street into a two way street and the playground
        and paved area next to the playground will have signage to coincide with the winter off street parking bans. The
        signage will state that between November 1st to April 1st, parking will be allowed in the lot however between April
        1st through November 1st, the playground and paved area will be chained and blocked off from vehicles to allow
        for a safe play area for the children. Ms. Perry noted that the school district will continue to maintain the building
        and the playground and hopes the community abides by the signage that will be posted.

          Ms. Tedford noted that the next scheduled school committee meeting is on June 7th and the committee will be
          notified if the time is modified. Also, the last school committee meeting for the year is schedule for June 21st but
          because the Town has voted to hold their Override Election on that day, we would not be able to begin until
          8:00pm. Discussion followed and suggestions for moving the school committee meeting to Wednesday was a
          possibility.

     B. Correspondence

     C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn was made and the Committee unanimously VOTED to adjourn at 8:52pm.

                                                                              Respectfully submitted,
                                                                              Sarah Gold
                                                                              Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
Code of Ethics
Operating Protocols
New Member Checklist
Minutes: 4/12/18; 5/3/18
School Improvement Plans (Village, Veterans, High School)
Student User fees for 2018-2019 document
Schedule of Bills




Approved at SC mtg 6/20/2018




                                                               5
