                                  Record of the Marblehead School Committee Meeting
                                                Thursday, June 29, 2018
                                                Marblehead High School

Members Present:                           Meredith Tedford, David Harris, Jennifer Schaeffner
                                           Sarah Gold, Meagan Taylor

Also:                                      Maryann Perry, Superintendent
                                           Dr. Bradford Smith, Assistant Superintendent
                                           Ken Lord, Exec. Dir. Of Technology and Operations
                                           Amanda Maniaci, Director of Business and Finance
                                           Robert Bellucci, Dir. Of Student Services & Program Acct.
                                           Rachel Bowen, Director of Human Resources

Members Absent:

I.   Initial Business

     A. Call to Order
        Ms. Tedford called the meeting to order at 7:30am.

          Ms. Tedford asked for a motion to meet in executive session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A
          section 21 (a), purpose (2) to conduct a strategy session in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel,
          specifically, the superintendent.

          Ms. Schaeffner made the motion and the motion was seconded by Mr. Harris. Ms. Tedford asked for a roll call
          vote: Meagan Taylor-yes; Sarah Gold-yes; David Harris-yes; Jenn Schaeffner-yes; Meredith Tedford-yes.

          Ms. Tedford noted that the Committee will now be meeting in executive session pursuant to Massachusetts
          General Laws chapter 30A section 21 (a), purpose (2) to conduct a strategy session in preparation for negotiations
          with nonunion personnel, specifically, the superintendent. The Committee will be reconvening in open session.

Return to Public Session 8:30am.

     B. Commendations

     C. Public Comment
        Mary Dow, 7 Warwick Terrace. Read a letter from SEPAC.
        Susie Pratt, 5 Mohawk Road- in support of teachers and administrators in their efforts to help curb absenteeism.
        Meredith Reardon, 4 Stone Terrace. Head Guidance Counselor at MHS and noted that all the counselors have had
        conversations with many parents who would find it very supportive in getting their student to school on time if the
        administration had and enforced stricter guidelines for tardiness.
        Jenn Billings, 67 Atlantic Ave, teacher. Explained how disruptive a tardy student is to the other students in the
        class.

II. Consent Agenda & Action Items
    1. High School Handbook
      Ms. Tedford noted that the handbooks need to be sent to the printers soon so they can be available for the beginning
      of school in late August. Ms. Tedford summarized a legal document regarding the handbooks.

        Mr. Harris made motion that the Committee revoke the privilege and confidential info that was received from legal
        counsel. Ms. Schaeffner seconded the motion and the Committee VOTED unanimously, 5-0, in favor.
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                        6/29/2018

        Mr. Bauer and Superintendent Perry read and answered questions they had received via email.

Mr. Harris left the meeting at 9:05am.

        Ms. Tedford asked for a motion to approve the Marblehead High School Handbook inclusive of the updated
        attendance policy.

        Ms. Gold made motion to approve the Marblehead High School Handbook inclusive of the updated attendance
        policy. The motion was seconded by Ms. Schaeffner. Discussion followed.

        Ms. Taylor stated that she is aware that there is an increase in tardiness and absences but she’s not clear what the
        cause is and requested more information. She also noted that the DESE Symposium on Chronic Absenteeism in
        August should be attended by district personnel before this policy is moved forward and that parents and students
        should be engaged in this procedure.

        Superintendent Perry stated that something needs to be done now to help our students and their families in regards
        to tardiness and absenteeism and that unless the administration is given an opportunity to see if this process works,
        we can’t help students and therefore cannot reach our goal.

        Ms. Gold noted that she believes this revised policy is well thought out and designed to help the students and that
        we have to trust the people we’ve hired to do these tasks in the best interest of our students.

        Ms. Schaeffner stated that she feels the entire committee understands that there is an issue but is still concerned
        that the “gray” areas have not been completely addressed in the policy as it stands. She also requested that
        someone from admin attend the DESE symposium. Ms. Schaeffner asked that the board receive a report on how
        things are going and asked that the SEPAC group be included.

        Ms. Tedford noted that she believes this has been a collaborative process and that the time frame is customary.
        She noted that parents in our district have high expectations for this district in regards to school rankings but this
        cannot be achieved without a good absenteeism and tardy policy. We have an obligation to listen to the staff in
        our buildings and trust them to put together a process that will work while helping our students. Ms. Tedford
        stated that she heard from many parents that they want support from administration in regards to a stricter policy
        so that they can tell their children that there will be consequences if they don’t get to school on time. Ms. Tedford
        continued to note that in sports, if you miss or skip a practice whether because of a vacation or other commitment,
        you are benched and no one questions those consequences. We should expect no less in regards to a student’s
        education. She asked Mr. Bauer and Superintendent Perry to present the Committee with a report sometime during
        the next school year and to register someone in the district to attend the symposium.

        Ms. Tedford asked for a vote on the motion and the Committee VOTED 3 in favor, 1 opposed. The motion passes.

    2. Policy updates
       Ms. Tedford noted that the following policies have statute related changes in regards to the Pregnant Workers
       Fairness Act. She asked the Committee to approve the inclusion of the language from the Pregnant Workers
       Fairness Act into the following policies:
                 AC-non discrimination
                 GBA Equal employment opportunity
                 GCF professional staff hiring
                 JB Equal Educational Opportunities
                 JFBB School Choice


                                                             2
MARBLEHEAD SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING                                                                       6/29/2018


       Ms. Schaeffner made motion to approve a policy change to include the language from the Pregnant Workers Fairness
       Act into policies AC; GBA; GCF; JB and JFBB. The motion was seconded by Ms. Taylor and the Committee
       VOTED unanimously in favor.

III. Teaching/Learning-Superintendent of Schools
     A. District Reports and Updates
        None


IV. Finance Organizational Support
    none


V. School Committee Communication and/or Discussion items
   Ms. Tedford stated that she will send out date options to the Committee regarding a date for the retreat.

VI. Closing Business
    A. New Business
        Ms. Schaeffner noted that she would like a report on the number of classrooms for each grade for next year.

     B. Correspondence
        None

     C. Adjournment
        A motion to adjourn the meeting was made and seconded and the meeting adjourned at 10:08 am.

                                                                            Respectfully submitted,
                                                                            Sarah Gold
                                                                            Marblehead School Committee
Meeting Documents:
MHS Handbook changes
Policies: AC-non discrimination
GBA Equal employment opportunity
GCF professional staff hiring
JB Equal Educational Opportunities
JFBB School Choice




Approved on 8/1/18




                                                             3
